ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:55]] The 410 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague Vladimir Leonidovich Spiwiachuk. Let us welcome Vladimir Leonidovich and wish him success and health. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I hereby announce the membership of the Democratic Ukraine Democratic Group Musiyaki Viktor Lavrentiovich. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion and insistence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, you and I, honourable colleagues, have decided that today we are holding a plenary session to consider proposals from the government in the form of a bill to amend the Ukrainian State Budget for 2005. This morning, at eight o’clock in the morning, the Budget Committee, together with the government, completed the work on this document. But there is not much work left to do to balance and see what the result is. So the government is asking and proposing to hold a meeting tomorrow in order to do so. Dear colleagues, I'll just say a proposal, and then we'll exchange thoughts, if you don't mind holding tomorrow's meeting, by the end of the day, to get all the paperwork, the paperwork, and tomorrow morning we're meeting factions, and at 11 o'clock we've started a red-hot or extra plenary meeting. But in order to make that decision, we need to make a determination about the draft decision on this point. In response to this offer, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues to express their thoughts. Five minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performance, please. Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u3	Sergei Sobolev is the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, since tonight's actual Titanic work has been completed between the government and the professional committees, especially the budgetary committee, it is perfectly logical that we should be able to obtain all the materials that have been prepared for the changes and additions to the government's budget project, consult with these materials, hold appropriate meetings of groups and factions tomorrow, and be able to go out at 11 o'clock to discuss a decision that is agreed between the government and the relevant Parliament's professional committees. That's why we need to vote today, I support this proposal to hold a plenary meeting tomorrow to review the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u5	Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to give Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u7	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, you and I are eyewitnesses, and this is the result of adventures that have to do with the development of the main economic law, the country's budget. Adventure and political shamanism have led to the fact that, virtually if we considered that draft budget, we could be parties to the destruction of the country. That is why we would like to see today the responsibility of those who have drafted this draft law. I would have seen, let's say, that the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy, Industry and the Agro-industry, if they are patriots of the people of Ukraine, should resign today because they are unable to draft the country's development budget. Vladimir Mihajlovic, a faction of communists suggests Tuesday. And if we receive a draft budget today, we will be able to at least get to know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u9	Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u10	Kirilo Polishchuk, Ukrainian Christian Democratic Party. Valerius Mikhailovich, please pass on the word of Konovaluku Valerius Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u11	Valerius Ilych Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we are witnessing today that, in fact, Parliament has been removed from the normal consideration of the draft amendments to the State Budget Act. What the Government had been preparing for two months, the Committee was considering for two days. I would like to state responsiblely that only 10 per cent of the amendments made by the people's deputies, the deputies' factions and the committees have been taken into account. I think that today we all have to consider the budget without a clear implementation of the procedure. We are absolutely against it. That is why we state, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that the Parliament should still have an impact on these issues and take clear responsibility, and that it is necessary to comply with the rules. And the procedure should be considered because the amendments were rejected by the committee simply, you know, out of desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u13	Gaddaecki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u15	Alexander Frost, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! It seems to me that in the logic of the draft budget that is now being proposed to us, whether we will consider it tomorrow or Tuesday, there will be no special changes. But taking into account the offer made by the Cabinet of Ministers, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who are the authorities for us. We support the thinking that this issue should be considered tomorrow in order for MPs to get to know the content of the draft Budget Act. And today we could use the time of the morning to vote on matters relating to the Court of Auditors, the appointment of staff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u17	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Kirilchuku Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u19	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u20	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. I will say that the two previous speakers are far from the truth, and it is a shame to hear such statements. [[I don't mean Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich.]] At eight o’clock in the morning, 820 amendments to the National MPs were completed, and four draft laws were considered. A joint decision on how to deal with this issue has been adopted by both the government and the Committee on Budgets in a positive vote. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council that perhaps today we should include in the agenda and the order of consideration of this important document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me make the proposals that we are about to consider with you. This morning, I met with the heads of the Committee on Budgets, the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, the representatives of the Committee on Budgets, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. It was informed that the draft budget for the Budget Committee had been finalized at eight o'clock this morning, and the Budget Committee, in agreement with the Government, is proposing to hold an additional plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow to review the document. He'll be working on it in 17 hours. Then the documents will be forwarded to committees, factions, and groups. The document will be submitted. I'll do it. Well, dear fellows, I'd like to make a suggestion. We're on our way. Just a minute. I'm saying the same thing. Dear colleagues, I can inform you about the meetings and the results of the Committee's work. One moment, dear fellows. As far as decisions are concerned. There is, in principle, agreement on the draft resolution on how to deal with this document, but the budget committee has not given us such a document in its final form. Well, please, Peter Mikolaiovich, listen to me! I'm informing you, I'm not making my grade. I mean, respectable colleagues. So, honourable colleagues, there are two proposals for -- one minute, let's finish this question -- for a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider changes to budget 25. 03 and 29.03. These two proposals in order of coming I'm going to put to the vote, you're going to define. What is the draft of the decision? Show it to me. There's a draft decision. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, this is a draft decision of the national deputy Gorbachev, but read this draft decree. It says "during March 24th." Well, we can't hold any more meetings on March 24th, because there's no subject matter to discuss, and this is the draft regulation's procedure, and we need to determine the date when we're going to consider this issue. That's it. It was two dates, 25th and 29th of March. Please, I'm asking you now, let's do this. Just a minute. Now let's figure out what each faction manager is going to do and he's going to say, what is the fractional position, we're going to sum up, we're going to get the required result. And now, as the faction leaders determine, I ask the head of the regulatory committee. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First, I would like to say that it is necessary, in accordance with the terms of the rules, to make appropriate decisions on changes to the calendar of plenary meetings, such as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we were given two volumes on 562a and then on 160 pages of additions to the draft law amending Ukraine's State Budget for this year. How can any national MP who has even been called a normal national MP, as Tymoshenko spoke of, get to know him today? Having received a night’s notice, he may put it under his head when he sleeps, gets acquainted with the author, and make a responsible decision on Ukraine’s basic budget law for a year. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let's organize our work this way. We had foreseen that today, before we considered the budget, we would determine whether we would vote in favour of the members of the Court of Auditors. On various issues, we could not resolve the matter. So let's think about it this way. So the first question of the head of the accounting office is to take it down so that it can work. Let's shoot, I don't even know what to do next. Let's say, fellow Members, heads of MPs and factions, your position on the issue of amending the budget, on the date when we're going to consider this issue, let's define the date, let's define the procedure. After that. There are two dates proposed by the Government and the Budget Committee: March 25th, March 29th. Please, "Our Ukraine," who will speak from "Our Ukraine"? Alexander Martinenko, please microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we have the next week's schedule is work in the districts. Many members of the "Our Ukraine" faction are going to work in the territory, there's already an announcement about the speech, and that's why next week we don't consider it necessary. So we suggest that we support the budget committee and the government's proposal to deal with this issue by 25 tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u25	Yes. Thank you. The Communist faction, please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are absolutely opposed to not taking a deep look at what is being proposed in the budget, and radical changes are being proposed, we have begun to vote on the budget. We are therefore categorically opposed to tomorrow's consideration. We support the proposal, which has just been said that next week we will allow in the districts, so next plenary week, if you do not want, will mark the date of the meeting of the session for consideration of the budget. But once again, I would like to emphasize that the Communist faction is outraged at the content of the budget and that it is by the spells, like the shamans, that today the 47 million people of Ukraine are trying to deceive. This tragedy is a whole tragedy, favoured by foreign producers, and the representatives of our Ukraine, through this budget, propose to destroy the domestic producer, this increase in unemployment is enormous again. That is why we demand that we consider it on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u27	Yes. "Regions of Ukraine." Valerius Konovaluk, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u28	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I believe that the honourable colleagues, please listen, really, today the Supreme Council is meeting for a plenary meeting. And we're making a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because these are government proposals to amend the laws of Ukraine have tax issues, separate benefits. And if the Supreme Council is meeting and there's a decision by the Committee on Financial and Banking, we can consider separate laws that apply exclusively to tax benefits and others. There are several, there are 30 bills. There are reporters, there are co-heads who will report, co-reporters, so let's make this point. If the Supreme Council adopts changes to the laws, we'll know what kind of income component resource will then be represented by changes to the State Budget. We don't just have changes, we have a new budget. And it's not possible to look at it that way, because we're going to have very serious negative consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u29	Thank you. People's party, please. Who will act? Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u30	Today, when looking at the budget, the faction sees it as a combination of white and black. Many are positive. The positive is that many social benefits are being resolved. And the faction cannot but support them. In addition, we see serious cuts in capital investment in economic development, this and industry, this agrarian sector of Ukraine. We disagree with the fact that the tax system is being taken down by the added value of agricultural producers. And at that they lose about one and a half billion dollars. Shortening targeted programs is also a negative. The faction studied the budget deeply and made specific suggestions on each point. Most of them are accounted for, including the APC, industry, including by.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u31	When are the meetings held? Yes, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u32	My dear colleagues, I hear from the replica of some factions that have become very familiar with the draft budget, so it's easier for them to determine. We haven't gotten to know each other very much yet, but that previous analysis that says that the logic of the budget and the change in it is so specific. I remember times when the budget was dealt with in an articleistic way. And that took about two days of direct voting. Another practice has been introduced today. And so we certainly need to prepare for the content of the overall project. Whether it will be considered tomorrow, whether it will be considered Tuesday, I think the result will be about one, because it is a political decision, not an economic one. It's supposed to be different. That's why the faction agrees for tomorrow, and for Tuesday, or any session, or Parliament, about the vote, we'll support any option so that the changes are accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u33	Timoshenko Block, please. Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u34	Dear National MPs, each national MP received these two volumes a week ago and had the right and had the right to get to know, to discuss, to make his own proposals. So the faction of Julia Tymoshenko's bloc insists that we go to these special meetings once again, have a substantive discussion tomorrow, and accept the changes and additions to the 2005 budget on the basis and in general. The citizens of Ukraine, millions of retired teachers, await this decision, the just decision of the Supreme Council. You don't have to invent artificial barriers to our decision. We urge all who have conscience and dignity to vote in favour of continuing their work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u35	Yes, Your Honor, Mr. Oleg Grigorovich, I want to make it clear that the deputies started receiving these two volumes on Tuesday morning. Yes, please, the Ukrainian People's Party. Alexander Goodima.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u36	Gudima, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, we can hear different thoughts here: some look at the budget through black glasses, others through black and white, and millions of pensioners and budget workers, social workers look at the budget with hope. We could talk about our professional prejudices to specific articles, but we came from the districts today, and we demand that the 2005 supplemental budget not only be considered, but also accepted, literally tomorrow. So we support both the government and the budget committee so that the consideration and adoption of the budget is decided by the Supreme Council tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u37	Thank you. "The only Ukraine," Bogdan Hubsky, please. We'll be right there, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It is very important to make decisions that will enable the social protection of Ukrainian citizens, raise wages, pensions, help single mothers, orphans, and this is very important. And that's why we have to take these positions as quickly as possible. At the same time, the proposed changes to laws include changes to tax laws that require considerable attention. And so our position is very simple -- we need to work, we need to look at it. We're ready to work today, tomorrow, or 29th. But the decision must be made in such a way that we, together with the Supreme Council, agree to consider carefully, carefully and important proposals made by our factions in particular, should be considered and accepted. After all, the suggestions we have made relate primarily to issues related to the development of social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u39	Faction, please. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u40	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction, taking into account the well - designed social component of the budget, is inclined to support this budget. But we tend to one thing: that this is not a formalized process, we ask that all MPs be able to study this budget perfectly. Since changes and additions are made and over 50 laws are repealed, there are a number of fundamental questions that will put a country producer in a difficult position. So we tend to have this law worked out. We don't care when we develop it, tomorrow or next week, but there's no guarantee that we'll be in the same situation tomorrow. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I very much ask you, when you meet with the head of the budget committee, ask for his legitimacy. Just because he's the godfather of the President doesn't mean he should violate the 78th article of the Constitution and not make up his mandate as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u41	"Democratic Ukraine," please, Igor Fedorovich Sharov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In general, by supporting a budgeting approach. Dear Mr. Head! In general, by supporting the approach to budgeting, I propose what I have suggested to you personally and to all faction leaders, to change the calendar plan in such a way as to work in session mode 29-1, and to work in districts 5-8. It all turned out exactly as we predicted: this week, no changes in the budget have been or will not lead to anything. And based on what the regulatory committee is proposing -- to consider budgetary changes according to procedures, I propose and insist on my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u43	Yes, "The will of the people," please. Santa Claus? Guriev? Please, Gurieva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u44	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The Parliamentary Group "The Will of the People" supports the government's intentions for social policy in the state. But we're very concerned today with the situation that arises in the major businesses that relate to basic industries, especially automobile construction, construction, aviation, and so forth. There was a meeting yesterday with the Committee on Industrial Policy, entrepreneurship, but unfortunately there was no representative from the government. Mr. Regurecki was 20 minutes old and then went to the Budget Committee. We do not have enough information on our observations and on our amendments. We are concerned about the situation in businesses. We get information from places, and we think we're capable and we want to work as much as we need, starting with 29 numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u45	"Democratic Initiatives," Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, it seems to me that the criticism of the changes to the State Budget has already shown that the vast majority of national MPs have deep enough to have the basic macroeconomic, macro-financial positions of this document. Finally, I would like to remind my colleagues that this year's budget has been accepted, virtually without reading it. At this time, the government's discussion over the past few years shows that we understand the government's policy in the budgetary process and understand the intransigence of the changes that are being proposed. So I think there's still time to sign some compromises, if possible, but trying to move it for a considerable period of time can lead to a balanced ideology of this budget and it may not be accepted at all. Understand that we will find ourselves in the position of those who take political responsibility for failing to implement the government’s social proposals. So I suggest we look at this budget tomorrow -- and finish this discussion by making these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u47	The Union." Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Union Group supports the budget committee and the government's proposal to deal with the budget tomorrow. Tomorrow's the 25th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u49	Yes, NDP, Republic, please. Valerius Pavlovich Desert Tenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u50	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say the next thing. We have studied the draft budget carefully, making changes to Ukraine's budget. We fully support the social part that deals with wages, pensions, scholarships, and many other benefits. And today there are a lot of problems on the other side. You and I have passed the Law on reforming the LHC, no amount of money is available for the following year, a state-wide programme for the development of small cities, and there was a dream that this year there will be no funds in the budget again. And if you look further, I would like us to meet today with the Minister of Finance, the faction of the People's Democratic Party, and move the budget to Tuesday. We support such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u51	Yes, dear colleagues, if you analyze the factions' position when you consider this issue. What? Postfaction? Please. Platinum, please, from a non-faction group. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Group met with the Prime Minister, discussed the issues for two hours and the position showed that the approach of the group was different. So allow me to say that two thirds of the people's deputies today are ready to begin consideration of the issue today or the 25th in order to start on the 29th. If the session room is decided to begin its consideration of the 29th number, it is a compelling request to allow the maximum time for amendments to be made to the deputies for further examination and consideration. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u53	Thus, honourable colleagues, the position expressed by the representatives of the MPs and factions, testified that there were some comparatively supporters to hold tomorrow's meetings and supporters to consider making changes to the 29th budget. So, dear colleagues, we have a number of suggestions, I'll make them up now, please. The first sentence is to hold a plenary meeting tomorrow from 11 o'clock. Second sentence, to hold an additional plenary session on 29 March. And the third suggestion, if it doesn't get support from either of the two previous ones, is to hold meetings according to the calendar plan, which is April 5. That's three suggestions. Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote, please. The proposal to change the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council is put to a vote and to hold a plenary meeting on 25 March of this year, which will begin at 11 a.m. [[10:38:30.]] For 242 Decision taken. Tomorrow at 11 o'clock. By factions, please, and please don't split, we have a few more papers to vote on. Our Ukraine - 76, Communist - 1, Ukraine - 1, People's Party - 26, SPU - 28, Block Timoshenko - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, Ukraine - 0, SDPU - 16, Democratic Ukraine - 0, will of the people - 4, Democratic Initiatives - 13, Alliance - 13, NDP, Republic - 2, non-fractional - 17. Dear colleagues, you know that according to the laws we have our representation on the supervisory boards of the National Bank, the Savings Bank and the Eximbank. The president of Ukraine recalled his portion of the representatives and appointed new representatives by decree. At the meeting of the Conciliation Council, I asked you to submit proposals to the parliamentary groups and factions to form our own, or parliamentary, supervisory councils to these institutions. There has been a tremendous number of proposals and we need to have additional consultations in order to have a consistent outcome, but in view of the fact that we have not assigned a part of our work, and the President has appointed and, in fact, is now in the process of forming the governing bodies of these institutions, we would obviously need to stop the parliamentary powers of the supervisory boards in order to participate in this process. When we're out of commission, so there won't be a meeting, and they'll wait until we form our representation, and the ode formed in the boards of supervisors will reflect the full picture. There's no warning that we're going to take such a decision right now? You've been given an appropriate document. This is a draft decree, registration number 7241, on the termination of the powers of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholder Association of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine and the State Export Bank of Ukraine, Eximbank. No warning to put this motion to the vote? Three minutes, please sign in. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Alexander Morozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u55	Alexander Morozov, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u56	All I'm suggesting is that we can go to the part where there are MPs on the Supervisory Board who don't appear to be deputies right now. Because there are MPs who are still MPs. Why do we deprive them of this right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u57	Please, Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u58	May I have Kravchenk Mikola Vasilovich, a member of the faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u59	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I am an active member of the Supervisory Board of Rescue and I absolutely agree with you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that the authority needs to be terminated today because there are already 3 or 4 people out there who are not members of the People's Council, the configuration of the Supreme Council has changed, and we need to look at it as a matter of urgency. But there is one warning, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. A meeting of the Supervisory Board has already been scheduled for today for 18 hours, with the participation of the President. So that it will never happen without us that they will elect the Chairman of the Monitoring Board at the Residence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u61	Vladimir Bronnikov, if you please, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u62	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have a lot of experts without orders, without anything. And I ask you to pass the word to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u63	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u64	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, the issue of supervisory boards is very important, especially that the new government, the new government, will be able to manage the banking system artificially to contain the inflation that is now at a sufficiently high level. But the question is, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Two factions asked you a question about the break announcement. You violated the Rules without complying with this condition. And I want to remind you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we could at this meeting, when the Supreme Council met, consider the issue and decision of the Committee of Social Policy on the laws that the government, the Committee of Finance and Banking is now proposing. And now we're putting the Supreme Council in such a demeaning position. And every time you say that you respect the Supreme Council as an institution. So with your own hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u65	I don't see, my dear colleague, how I humiliated the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since such a document is in place, but if other questions are needed, it is obvious to invite reporters from another question. And I'd like you to keep my attention there. I want to say it again. Please calm down. Oleg Zarubinski. You and I always have an understanding. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. It seems to me that the question of putting an end to the powers of the Supervisory Board's representatives from the Supreme Council is absolutely correct, given that a number of representatives of the Supreme Council are no longer so, without being members of the People's Council. And second moment. It was absolutely right for colleagues to say, if we don't do this today, that there would be a question that some or other organizational issues, including the election or appointment of the heads of these supervisory councils, could be carried out without the participation of representatives of the Supreme Council. With regard to those deputies who are now representatives of the Supreme Council in the Supervisory Boards, surely those factions who have been delegated will be able to confirm their representation on the Supervisory Boards. I think we should vote in favour of this project, and I urge my colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We exchanged thoughts. But we need to include this in the agenda. So I'd like to have your attention. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to take a decision on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the termination of the powers of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association "The State Saving Bank of Ukraine" and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine "Ukreximbank". Registration number 7241. [[10:46:33]] For 224 Questions are not included in the agenda. Yeah, what? Well, three minutes, sign up, please. Sign up, three minutes. Please sign in for three minutes. Yes, Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u69	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to emphasize that we should go back to our practice so that we could vote again and come back to this issue in order to put it into the agenda, because two votes, of course, just a few people didn't make it, and we have to, we just have to support this decision, because it's not just a matter of changing the configuration and someone has stopped being a deputy and thus released a seat on the board of supervisors, and it's just that the board of directors has stopped having a normal number of deputies in order to make decisions. That is, they may have lost their legitimacy during the time and election of their heads, and considering that there really should be a savings session in the supervisory board today. So I ask and appeal to everyone to vote, to support the decision and to believe that all those who are national deputies, who have worked and who want to work, we will support them in the positions of members of the Supervisory Boards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u71	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u72	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass the word to Stanislav Gurenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u73	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u74	Gurenko, the Communist faction. I ask my respectable colleagues to listen to what is being done now at a time when there is a so-called continuation of the revolution. I'm a member of the Ukreximbank Supervisory Board. A week ago, after taking advantage of this situation, Deputy Prime Minister Kinakh called the Supervisory Board and himself, when he called things his names, he released, smothered the members of the Supervisory Board, released Sorokin, who had been appointed by the former composition of the Supervisory Board, regardless of my objections, to the objection of the People's Chamber of Czernovets, there was, he assumed, practically, a lie, that Sorokin would bring him tomorrow's release. And there's still no statement. No one is proposing to Sorokin, a qualified banker who has worked brilliantly in office, and will continue to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u75	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u76	Vladimir Mihajlovich, the faction welcomes your entry into the Rules. I now give the floor to Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u77	Thank you. Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think we have any strong objections to this decision. But we think it would be appropriate. The Supreme Council will determine the candidates who will then be approved and supported in replacing these positions. And to do so with one determination, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and this is done almost tomorrow when we consider the issue in plenary mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u79	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I think that today we must take the fullest responsibility for the situation, and it is as follows: in order to be civilized, literate, and, I beg your pardon, politically responsible, the monitoring boards of banks must work under the conditions in which they are proposed. So given the situation, well, I think the two votes that we missed are just a technical malfunction, or at least. neglect of part of the MPs. So, colleagues, we need to work this out and we need to vote now. I'm asking everyone to mobilize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, here's a proposal to consider the inclusion of a draft ruling in the agenda. I am voting on the motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7241, in the agenda. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[10:51:20]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Yes, dear colleagues, I would like to apologize to two other factions who insisted on taking a break. Now we're just gonna finish the job. But, Your Honor, there's still a draft regulation, and I ask you to listen to this: "About the urgent allocation of funds from the National Deputys Foundation for the cost of transporting special aircraft to Germany by five-year-old Anastasia Ovcar, who suffered from a fire in the village of Vorontszeck of the Kupyan district of Kharkiv." This project was introduced by national deputy Igor Shurma. Dear colleagues, how do you see that we include this issue in the agenda and decide what to do? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision, registration number 7237-1, on the timely release from the National Deputys Foundation of the funds needed to cover the transportation of special aircraft to Germany by five-year-old Anastasia Ovcar, who suffered from a fire in the village of Vorontszka Kupyansk district of Kharkiv region. About getting into the daytime. In order of the day, dear colleagues. [[10:52:48]] For 398 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is a project that is proposed. Paragraph one: "Separate from the pay fund of Ukrainian national deputies the amount needed to cover the costs of transporting a special aircraft to Germany by a five-year-old Anastasia Ovcar who suffered from a fire in the village of Vorontszka in the Kupyan district of Kharkiv Region." Paragraph 2: "The administration of the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recalculate, in an orderly manner, the funds for the benefit of Ovcar, to retain from the salaries of each national deputy of Ukraine, by his consent, part of the funds in proportion to the total number of national deputies of Ukraine and the allocation in accordance with paragraph 1 of the first sum." Such a project, what questions are there? What, shall we vote? I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a whole. Registration number 7237-1. [[10:54:11]] For 409 I'll take the order. Yes, dear fellows. With motive? Alla Alexandrovska, please, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u82	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. It is indeed a great tragedy and it is very good that the Supreme Council has supported the bill. Vladimir Mihajlovich, but I would like to draw your attention to the urgency of the matter. I brought this girl's papers for her parents this morning so that they could go abroad today, and they explained to me that it was supposed to be today. Therefore, please take note of the urgency of this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u83	I thank you for this clarification. I now ask the Secretariat to prepare this order immediately for signature and to count the necessary costs. Please, Andrew School. Then Igor Ostaš and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I'm also glad that the Supreme Council has supported it, and I think that it will be decided on an urgent basis. I just want to say one thing, and I need to inform the Supreme Council about the events, too, because there's different information about a private investor paying for a flight to the United States and all that. So I'd like us to have reliable, accurate information about this. As for the author of the decree, I wanted to say that he has a faction neighbor who could not only pay for the flight there, such as this child, but ensure that there are no similar fires in Ukraine. I mean Gregory Surkis. Why? This person could pay for the flight of 400 such children in the United States without any loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u85	Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u86	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, really, there's also information that there's a possible treatment in the United States and that's why there's a proposal, maybe in the text to take down "to Germany," just write the text "to treat" a girl without specifying a place, because we're going to vote for Germany, or maybe the operation will be done in the United States. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u87	Thank you. I think it's important that we list the funds now and where they're going to be. Replica, Dobkin and Matvienkov, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I am grateful to all the popular electorates who have supported this decree. The only thing I want to say is that even in such a fact, some politicians are trying to please themselves. I want to answer to my esteemed colleague at the Yulia Timoshenko Faction that the ones you're talking about are just doing it quietly, not to mention on TV. And if you want to go all over the country, one more time, even in that fact, to start a political bargain, it just shows your true face. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u89	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u90	55th Precinct, Mariupol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, as we have voted that tomorrow at 11 a.m. we will begin to consider changes in the budget. I would like to have a clear answer today, where and when we will be able to obtain a finalized version of the draft budget, which will be considered tomorrow at 11 a.m. To allow us to work out the remaining time, to see what changes have been made, which are perceived, which are not perceived. We would now like to hear a clear reply from either the Government or the Committee. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u91	The government is gone, they're all working on the budget. We'll ask the Prime Minister, a representative of the government. Please, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u92	National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the budget prepared, has already been discussed and agreed upon. The motion for a joint government and a budget committee has been introduced, and it takes a few hours technically for it to be handed over to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u93	I'd like, my fellow Members, I'd like to make a point right now, the latest information that the Ministry of Finance is now balancing, and by 5:00, they're going to be working on this problem, after the 17th hour, as certain parts of the draft budget will be printed, will be transmitted to the Committee, the factions and the groups, in order to be able to get this last information. If we don't get the document, we won't be able to look at it properly. What? Well, please sign up for five more minutes, please, we are. Well, sign up, I don't see any other way out. Please, Mikhail Kosov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u94	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear fellow MPs, I want to remind you once again what Alexander Alexander Moroz said. I remember the adoption of the budget when we finished the work in the last hours of December 31 on the eve of the new year. Well, it was like that, we sat for two days at night, and we took the budget. In recent years, we've been adopting the budget, as our neighbours say, the Russians, the Czechs. And so that's the situation we're in today. All that's left is an explanation of some of the serious positions that apply to the tax system and, of course, I think that everyone will unanimously accept the cost. To do that again, let's do it tonight and tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u95	Baburin, Communist faction, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u96	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we are once again held hostage. Hostages were made when the Government's programme was adopted when the Cabinet of Ministers and Governors were appointed, and meetings of the Supreme Council were periodically postponed. And now that professionals: the Minister of Finance will be able to understand and budget for up to five hours. Then we're left with, not professionals, let's say, again in a pig's voice to receive that budget. And then how do we discuss it? Therefore, our proposal was correct: to move on Tuesday, to work in the regions, to see changes to the regional budgets and then to accept it consciously. The same applies to the Committees of the Supreme Council when they gather to discuss these amendments? So let's talk about this, because you have to take a firmer position on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u97	Richter Raisa Vasilovna, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u98	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy, Pecklusenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u99	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u100	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I think we need to gather now, calm down and resolve the main issue. The budget will be adopted. The question is only in another, with what quality and when. That is why we need to define ourselves in the format of the budget review. There are actors in the process, they are individual deputies, they are factions, they are committees. That is why the Government needs to be defined now. Moreover, self-government, industrialists and small businesses should be added to these names. We now need to negotiate to adopt a quality budget. When, that's question number two. Only after all these procedures have been followed. I propose Vladimir Mihajlovich, now declare a recess, invite Julia Vladimirovna and find the format of the budget discussion. If it takes a few hours to give it away, how long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u101	And once again, my dear colleagues, there's an uncalculated balance, which we can talk about right now, we need to do this right now, all the proposals that have been voted out, set up to get some real picture. What are we going to talk about? That's not accurate information. Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, faction of the People's Party. When we defined our position, we discussed it, based on what members of the People's Party faction, who are members of the Committee on Budgets, reported, and who worked all night to get to the bottom of things. Based on this logic, the position of the faction of the People's Party was determined. The bottom line is this. The social component proposed in the budget settles us, and here's the rest of it raises crazed questions. This relates to industrial development, the powers of the tax administration, the development of agriculture, the taxation of disabled enterprises, the problems of military pensioners and a number of others. But we believe that today we can prove it. And now for discussion, for adoption. We will assemble the People's Party tomorrow at 9 a.m. and make the final decision. And we believe that at 11 we can begin consideration, and then, as it is said, give God enough mentality and perseverance along with Kabmin to make a full budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u103	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I just want to be warned that I should take a more principled position, ask Alex Baburin to look at the results of the vote. I voted for the Supreme Council to be defined, and I voted for my position. I understand everything perfectly, but I cannot impose my will on the Supreme Council. Yes. Mikola Kravchenko, last one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u104	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to refer once again to the people's deputies on a question. Today, the President is holding a meeting of the Savings Supervisory Board. The savings are being prepared for privatization. There are three people who are not members of the people today. I don't know how they'll behave. We can't let this bank fail. Therefore, I ask you once again to determine our position and our role in today's meeting. Without authority, I won't go there. Today, the Supreme Council allegedly withdrew its powers and did not appoint its representatives of the monitoring boards. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask once again to return to this issue and to finally resolve the role and place of the Supreme Council in this system-wide relief.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-24-m0.u105	The thing is, my dear colleagues, that I voted twice -- the Supreme Council does not support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Therefore, the authority of all council members remains. And if you insist, I can put the vote again. Please, who wants to go back to the issue of including the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the agenda and decision-making? Registration number 7241. Please, let us determine by vote. [[11:07:13]] For-182 You don't want to look at it. Dear colleagues, so on. Dear colleagues! Your last name wasn't called. Well, I'm asking you, well, I just told you in a normal human way that you don't have to, so please. What application? Dear colleagues, two factions -- the faction of Democratic Initiatives and the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" are asking for a recess of 30 minutes. But there's an offer that we'll announce a recess by 11 a.m. tomorrow. Therefore, when I do request the factions, I also announce that the morning session is closed. I suggest we continue our work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we'll start the plenary meeting at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
