ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:22]] The 414 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues, announcements: in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Konovaluk Valerija Ilić from the "Region of Ukraine" faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbato Valeri Mironović, from the Socialist Party's parliamentary faction. Honourable National Deputies, four factions, two factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Democratic Ukraine Deputies Group require a 30-minute recess, as well as a faction of the People's Union, our Ukraine and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party also require a recess. [[united]] So let's think about it this way. I'm asking for your attention. I now announce a 30-minute recess, the leaders of MP groups and factions, please assemble on the third floor. All subsequent recesses I will put to the vote so that the Supreme Council will determine. The Supreme Council will decide the break. We'll do it. For it is written in the Rules that the presiding officer may give a recess. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to be defined. I'd like to consider that. There's a break in 10 hours for 35 minutes. Members of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to meet on the third floor of the meeting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u2	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear National Deputies! Before I inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council, I would like to give the floor to representatives of the factions who took the break. From the faction of the National Union of Ukraine and the Ukrainian People's Party, who will act? Yuri Ivanovich! Mikola Davidovich! You'll be somebody. Is it gonna come from you? Well, they took the National Union and took the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party off. Insomnia, right? Well, we'll wait. Please make up your mind. Boris Yakovitch, are you ready? No, we have two factions. Well, we've identified Bespalogo. Boris Bespali. Then I ask you to identify yourself from two factions: The Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Group "Democratic Ukraine" who will speak. [[united]] Dear colleagues! Two factions of the People's Union, our Ukraine and the Ukrainian People's Party took a break for half an hour, who's gonna be speaking to you? It's a workman, isn't it? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u3	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On another occasion, I would like to draw your attention to the events that are taking place in the Kyiv City Public Administration. Five courts in the Shevchenkov district have already been won for election to the 60 - district city council in Kiev. However, the court’s decision is ignored by the district commission, the district commission. This is done under the pressure of Mayor Alexander Omelchenk. Every day, the Kyiv City Council gathers kyan’s seals, protesting a systematic corruption scheme for land distribution, against a systemless blockade in Kiev. Yet, no one reacts in any way. I draw the attention of the Attorney General of Ukraine that no decision of the election court has been made. Today, an extraordinary event has taken place. Alexander Omelchenko left the mayor at seven o’clock in the morning and personally carried out a gang attack on his own. He personally started tearing down slogans, taking away the camera. Such a disgrace to the mayor to persecute his own electorate, Ukraine did not yet know. Kiev did not know such a disgrace. I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate this hooligan case. I ask the Attorney-General to carry out a comprehensive examination of all land matters in Kiev and the decommissioning of all land areas. And to verify all the facts of illegal construction in Kiev. Please consider this an official request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, Nestor Shufric is invited from two factions: the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, Democratic Ukraine. They were taking a break. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u5	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished compatriots, colleagues, today, I hope that in the end the truth will prevail and we will be able to establish an investigative commission to protect the constitutional rights of our citizens. Regrettably, every day of delay that was forced upon us by the provincial “Ukrainian” is the reason for the need to name new names: Svetlana Gudkov, resident of Starobelska Lugansk oblast. After further interrogations of the groundless, I'm sure she died, couldn't hold her heart. The head of the Ternopolski region is Joukinsky's detention on some absurd charge of buying or selling a car. Is that reason enough for the district council manager to be detained? I would like to recall that the case of a member of the Regional Council should be initiated by the Prosecutor's Office, originally initiated by the Ministry of the Interior of Ternopol County. And then they just got him in the D.A.'s office. Just like I said. Yesterday we witnessed criminal proceedings against the distinguished director of Riznikovic against the folk singer Jan Tabojnik. I hope that the commission, which will be established in a few minutes, will put an end to these repressions or at least bring our citizens to the attention of what is happening in our country. I'd like to address my colleagues to the people's deputies from the provincial factions. You wanted to rename Majdan as another name, so call it. Square, set up a guillotine there. I see Robespierre's glory does not leave you alone. So I would like to recall that Robespierre was a genius in all his bloodthirstyness, and you are as free as your entire power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, during the Conciliation Council meeting, we agreed that we would now take up the Supreme Council and adopt a draft decision. I beg your attention, I'll read it. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. According to article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. First. Establish a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The other one. To elect the head of the interim commission of inquiry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Musiak Viktor Lavrentiyovich, deputy head of the interim commission of inquiry, National Deputy of Ukraine Vernidubov Ivan Vasilovich. [[Deputies Group "Democratic Ukraine"]] [[faction of the "Regions of Ukraine"]] Third. To MPs and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine within a two-day period following the adoption of the decision to make proposals for their representatives in the interim commission of inquiry, one representative from 20 national deputies, but at least one representative from each deputy faction and group. Four. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational support for the work of the Interim Investigation Commission to place the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its apparatus. Fifth. A report by the Temporary Investigation Commission will be heard no later than fifteen days after the date of this decision. Six. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I'm voting on a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. Registration number 7393. Please vote. [[11:04:14]] For 331 The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 65, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 30, SPU - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDPU - 22, "One Ukraine" - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, "Union" - 11, "Posafrational - 16. [[I'm reading pros.]] A draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kriworukka, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transport, housing and communications is under consideration. Does the committee’s first deputy head or committee head report? Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk Oi, Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u7	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, on April 13, the committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kriworukka Yuri Zinoviović, a member of the "Our Ukraine", on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Considering that the calculated quota for this faction is not used, only the national deputy of this faction is working on the committee marked. The committee decided to support the statement made by the People’s Deputy. That's why you're considering a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Kriworukka as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u8	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Krivokka as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7381]] Please vote. [[11:07:10]] For 260 Decision taken. The draft Decree on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Przyjenova as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration is being announced for consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u9	Thank you. The committee also considered the statement made by the National MP, Zyjelova Mikhail Alexanderovich, about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration. Taking into account also that the calculated quota for the "Our Ukraine" faction, which consists of a national MP, is 3.6 in total, and only one representative of this faction is working on the committee, i.e. the quota is not fully used, the committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy. And that's why a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of the national deputy Przyživnova as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration was introduced. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7382, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Přížilova Mikhail as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration, is being put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:08:58]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine," I read 'for' -- 73 Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine regions" - 3, People's Party - 26, SPU - 8, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 17, UNP - 21, SDPU - 15, "One Ukraine" - 10, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, SPTU - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Union" - 6, "Prefaction - 11 Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take a moment to come back to the draft ruling, registration number 7382, please vote. [[11:09:51]] For 231 We're back on the subject. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Příživnova as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration, registration number 7382 is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:10:23]] For 251 Decision taken. A project on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Sadowa as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education is under review. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u11	Thank you. The committee considered a statement by the national deputy of Ukraine Sadov Mikola Ilić, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. In view of the fact that the calculated quota for the Social Party's deputy faction on the committees is 1.2, and this committee already has one representative of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Nikolayenko, i.e. the quota used, the committee decided not to support the statement of the Saddow People's Deputy to elect him as a member of the Committee on Science and Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Saddé member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education is being put to the vote. [[11:12:01]] For 251 Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 16, People's Party - 28, SPI - 27, Block Timoshenko - 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, SDPU - 5, "One Ukraine" - 18, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Soyuz" - 10, "Afterfractional" - 13. A draft regulation on the election of the national deputy Bondarenko Olena as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, registered number 7331, is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u13	A draft Supreme Council regulation on the election of Ukraine's national deputy Bondarenko as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information was discussed by the committee on 13 April this year. Given that the calculated quota of our Ukrainian delegation today is 3.4, and on the 12th Committee, I emphasize that out of the 12 members, there are 6 members of this faction, i.e. the fractional quota is nearly two times exceeded, the committee decided not to support the specified draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u14	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u15	One moment, we'll ask Bondarenko Olenna, please. So it's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to make a point by procedure, because the agenda says that I'm going to report on the draft decision. That's the first one. The other one. You were granted the 7th April draft of Decree 7331 on the election of Bondarenko as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Media. I want to report, and these documents came to the Rules Committee as well, and I didn't understand why they weren't bugged. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, by its quota, invited me to join the committee. Finally. If you and I want professional people to work on committees, then let us approach this in terms of professionalism. I'm a professional journalist, and I was the editor-in-chief of the Times newspaper, whose editor-in-chief was Viacheslav Chronovil. I ask you to support my candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! For the purposes of Truth, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, for the moment, as the first deputy chairman of the committee, I am in charge of the committee, and I can tell you that we have a lot of work and people are slow. Therefore, I am very grateful to support this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u19	Yes, honourable colleagues, the draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarenko as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, registration number 7331. Please vote. [[11:15:47.]] For 263 The decision of the Supreme Council has been taken. Dear colleagues! Now, if you'll have your attention. We now have to consider draft decrees on the appointment of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Open Shareholder Society of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukreximbank. A number of decisions have been made in this regard. At the same time, we agreed at a meeting of the Conciliation Council that factions would submit their nominations. Such nominations have been submitted. If we go to vote now on the decisions that are proposed, we'll call for resistance in the session room. One could follow established democratic practice: to vote on all the candidates that have been proposed separately, i.e. to vote separately, on the results of the rating vote, to vote on the election of the members of the Supervisory Boards. If that is not the case, then we need to put the matter aside and reconcile it. Because those arrangements that exist at the level of certain groups and factions will lead to another surge of opposition in the session room. And we need to follow this established normal democratic practice. I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts for three minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Viacheslav Koval, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u20	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Viktor Yushchenko’s Block Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Draft regulations and registered draft regulations in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's try to vote on the draft regulations instead of going on some sort of rating, which is essentially possible, but when there are no draft regulations. Because MPs, factions have agreed to the positions of supervisory boards of banks. So let's try to go through the path, try to vote on the draft regulations, it doesn't have to rule out the opposition in the hall, and then try the option you're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u21	Yes. Dear colleagues, Domansky has the floor, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u23	Peter Simonenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, our constituents. This is a matter of principle because it is the monitoring boards of State banks, and in this case it is deliberately forced from the monitoring board by the Communist faction, because large capital representatives and representatives in power today want to remain fully under the control of State banks. These are your savings, your esteemed radio audiences, those are industrial finance issues, those are social support issues, and so on. I insist once again, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that this issue be discussed only on the proposals of the factions. Everything else that is being submitted by the various peoples'deputies is not being considered at all today. Because then only the agreements of the various mafias will prevail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u25	Pavlov Sulkovsky Faction "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u27	Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have already had experience in the rating vote and we can predict that, once this is over, most will form monitoring boards today, as it is necessary. No one interferes with legislative initiatives. And today is the day's day's work. It is therefore necessary to proceed with the procedure and to vote on them. Unless there is a certain number of votes, then follow up on the proposals that have been made. And watch and refine, including with the Professional Committee. There are therefore decrees that should be voted in favour of them on a day-to-day basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So let's get out of this situation. When we're discussing the appointment of the Supreme Council, let's say the National Council, when we were considering the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission, we were conducting a rating vote, and factions and groups were talking to each other about what kind of candidature they would support. If we start looking at those draft regulations now, and many of them, if we now start to consider draft regulations on the non-admissibility of draft regulations, we will get dirty in our opposition to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And those groups and factions that agreed on each other, they're going to vote for each other. So now, to preserve democratic purity again, I'm going to put a proposal to the vote. Who wants us to consider this issue by way of a rating vote and then make the right decisions? Please vote. Otherwise, we'll pass on the question, we'll put it off. [[11:21:52]] For-64 The decision is not taken. It was we who voted in favour of the rating vote. Show the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1; Communists and "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; People's Party - 23; SPU - 26; Block Timoshenko - 1; Ukrainian People's Party and SDPU(o) - 0; "Only Ukraine" - 2; "Democratic Ukraine" - 0; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 5; "Democratic Initiatives", "Union" - 0; non-fractional - 6. Dear colleagues, there is such a proposal that we consider all the proposals separately at the Conciliation Board and determine which draft decision we will vote for. No warning? Thank you. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings "Contemporary Status and Prospects for Land Relations in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 7181]] Reporter: Yukhnovsky Oleg Ivanovich, National Deputy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u30	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. I was moved to make a draft decision by problems that are most often disturbed by citizens’ appeals to me as a national deputy. With what questions did they go to the reception two or three years ago? More social, more retirement. Today, almost 80 percent of the peasants’ turnouts refer to landball problems, and this indicator is a kind of barometer of the unregulatedness of Ukrainian land legislation. Thus, half of Ukrainian citizens have not yet changed their certificates to state acts that show ownership of the land, which makes it impossible for them to exercise their constitutional right to the fullest extent. So far, the only automated system of state registration of land, immovable property and rights in the State Land cadastre does not work. There's also mortgage lending in the process of formation. There are still many gaps in the land’s legal base. Of the 28 laws that we were supposed to develop in the development of the Earth Code, today only 11. Of the 90 legal acts, 30. Important laws such as the land market, the State Land cadastre, the redemption and forced alienation of land, the right to private property, and many others have not been enacted. In connection with the existence of violations and imperfections of effective legislation in the area of land relations on October 6, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Amendments to the Ukraine’s Land Code, which extended the ban on sale and alienation in another way of agricultural assignment, as well as the introduction of land particles, to statutory farm funds. But this law only temporarily addresses the problematic issues that have arisen in the area of land alienation. This further deepens the tintling of land relations, the smooth transfer of agricultural land to other categories, and the use of recreational land. Of course, this series of problems can be solved for the development of the legal system, clearly defined criteria within the framework of the overall concept of land relations. To discuss these problems with the involvement of the general public, land law professionals, scientists are invited to hold parliamentary hearings in September on "Stand and Prospects for Land Relations in Ukraine". The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the draft decision. The Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations also supports the adoption of the decree. Please support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues. Yes, thank you, sit down, Oleg Ivanovich. Vladimir Alexiyovich Leschenko, does the committee support you? Please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u32	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has considered and supported the proposal carefully. Yes, indeed, the problem of the earth exists, and it is extremely relevant. Not only did the author of the bill say so on the side of legislation, because at the legislative level of the Supreme Council only today, 21 laws on land relations have been passed, three adopted and prepared for second reading and 22 are under consideration. That is, the legislative branch of power settles this issue. There's another problem -- the enforcement of laws, both by the authorities of the state and by the authorities of local self-government, which we're seeing with you, there's abuse, there's self-absorbing, and so on. So this issue needs to be addressed in a complex, especially that the people of Ukraine, especially the rural population, are interested in very many questions, for example, what was the goal of despair -- whether land should be given to or taken away from the peasants? And they also have the question of trading the land or not? Those who intend to take over the earth say that they will immediately turn it into a commodity. Whether there are few peasants whose land is not interested, they also want to sell and temporarily benefit from their pie. But the main mass of peasants believes that the earth is to trade in sin, and it must belong to those who live and work on it. It's also a mortgage issue. Many, including those from executive authorities, believe that the main issue of agricultural development is mortgage. But that is not the case. It takes the executive branch to help the village. If it does not do so, agriculture will continue to be destroyed. There are also many questions about rent and rent. We know that there are many unscrupulous renters who either pay a sack of garbage or pay nothing at all. The problem of earth’s use has grown much with weeds. The inheritance is of interest to our landowners, the agricultural production organization -- whether they're small pieces of land there, they're going to work with pitchforks and rakes, or whether it's large-scale agricultural production and so on. In view of this, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations supports the initiative and asks for an appropriate decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Alexiyovich. Dear colleagues, the draft decree on parliamentary hearings "Contemporary state and prospects for land relations in Ukraine" is being put to the vote, registration number 7187. Please vote. [[11:28:44]] For 293 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the faction leaders: I ask you to make your proposals to a commission that we have recently voted for so that we can form a document. From the non-fractional, if there's a desire to work on the committee, one of the 20s too. Please, and get the corresponding signature suggestions, I mean the non-fractional ones. A draft decree on the cost of expenditure for the implementation of the 2005 Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7391, is being announced. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Very short, if you please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the cost of implementing the 2005 Supreme Council of Ukraine's 2005 powers, I would like to brief you on the main indicators of the use of COX in 2004. At its meeting on 20 April 2005, a report by the Supreme Council's Apparatus on the use of the meeting's cost base and the implementation of the 2004 mandate was considered. In 2004, a total state budget fund of 329.6 million dollars was foreseen, and 98.8 percent was actually funded. The current expenditure was spent on 204.2 million, and the capital investment was made by eight budget programmes totalling 121.5 million dollars, including the Supreme Council’s legislative programme of 73.7 million dollars. All of this has contributed to the improvement of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including a number of important tasks in improving the working conditions of the people's deputies, enhancing their social guarantees and the level of funding for other expenses provided for in the Ukrainian National Deputy's Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Work has been done to create proper conditions for the work and residence of Ukrainian national deputies, to complete the construction and operation of the administrative building on Sadowi Street, 3a, to reconstruct the session hall, to provide computer technology for each national deputy, to improve transportation security, and to implement the first two sections of the residential building on Srebnokilska Street, 24 by 185 apartments. Now let me offer you a project on the cost of implementing the 2005 Supreme Council's mandate. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 1005 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the approval of the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the financing and provision of the activities of the higher legislative body, is in line with that of the Supreme Council. On April 13, the committee reviewed the issue and confirmed the cost of spending 478.6 million dollars, the total fund is 441.7 million dollars, and the special amount is 36.9 million dollars. The introduction of the cost for approval at the beginning of the second quarter of funding was due to the need for additional funds, and as a result of constructive cooperation with the Budget Committee, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, changes were made to the 2005 State Budget and increased the cost of providing the Supreme Council of Ukraine with 67 million dollars. Special attention in the committee was focused on meeting the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, in particular articles 18, 32, 34, 35 and others, on ensuring proper conditions for the exercise of powers. Of course, we can try to make some changes right now, but this cost is developed within the budget of the State Budget for 2005, and their redistribution can lead to undesirable consequences for ensuring normal activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u35	Allow me to complete the report. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, given the time limit, please support the proposed draft decision. [[Registration number 7391]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the draft Costs Regulation for the 2005 Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7391, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:33:41]] For 374 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for giving the floor now, but I asked him before. Why? I'd like to know where the 6 million 217 money goes for "the creation of an automated information and analysis system of the legislative authorities." Or it's going to be like this again. This system that's standing there, it's totally useless or something road might go on a road trip. I'd like to see this argument, at least then. I'd like to find out why we have assistant advisors of the national MPs in this kind. the secondary position, compared to all the employees of the Apparatus. When the pay is increased, they must be fully governed by the law. They can't retire normally, nothing. How much will we abuse this army of law-abiding people?Oh, my God! I'm asking you to settle this. It's up to you and me. Out of respect for their helpers. That's what I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, one minute. Dear colleagues, with regard to information costs, I ask you to prepare the relevant accounts of the Secretariat and to meet the national MPs. With regard to the assistants of the National Deputies, I want to say that we've made decisions and raised the funds that are allocated to the Assistants, which all depends on the People's Deputies. [[concerning the distribution between assistants]] A draft law on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine (for the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine’s participation in the United Nations and monitoring the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian forces) is being announced for consideration. Secretary of Defense of Ukraine Anatoly Grizzenko. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. The committee will be chaired by the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich. Such rules of procedure are proposed, fellow believers. One moment, Anatoly Stepanovich. For the report, up to five minutes, the answers to the questions, up to five minutes, for the co-report, the discussion and the decision-making process, up to 15 minutes. No warning? Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This bill was prepared by the previous authorities. It is supported by present - day authority. I think that even this fact is evidence that, politically speaking, the decision that is now proposed to approve the Supreme Council is faithful and is in the interests of our state. A corresponding request from the United Nations came in January of last year. In fact, the solution proposed is supported by the parties involved in the conflict, Israel, and Syria. We're proposing to send a battalion of material and technical supplies there, which, I want to emphasize, will not carry out any combat tasks. It's going to be a question of the back, the material, the medical, the mission that works there. The appropriate battalion is being prepared as part of the South Operational Command. People have been taken away, financial issues have been resolved by the United Nations. Our expenses will be fully compensated. Our military will work alongside the military neighbouring states: Poland, Slovakia, Austria, and Japan. There are no medical warnings about direction. The climate, the epidemiological situation, is normal. This area is virtually free from conflict, since 1974 there has been no execution in connection with the combat nature of the task. For our military, it's a very important day to get the back-up skills of national peacekeeping units. I'd like to support this decision on behalf of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u43	The minister's report is complete. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the minister? Please sign up for five minutes. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski. Mr. Secretary, I have two questions for you. First, so we're paying our money now, provided that then the United Nations will compensate them? You well know the financial situation of the United Nations. And raise my doubts that we won't get any compensation from that side. And the second question: I got hit in the memory of the episode that your predecessor once reported, that when our troops landed in Iraq, it turns out that those tire wheels were so bent over and twirled that as soon as our rig technology got off the rig, it couldn't move any further. Now I see we're sending a GAZ-66 unit and a R-161 radio station is two units. What is it? What will it do there? And is it effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u45	Well, on the first question, I, Vladimir Alexanderovich, will resolve your doubts. The question is how quickly our expenses will be reimbursed depends on us and the question of our organization. The UN will live up to its obligations and our expenses will be fully compensated — first. With regard to that experience, including the negative, in preparation for the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent to Iraq, the previous minister was taken into account and amended and the organization of the preparation and verification of technical equipment and so on. But what I'm saying is that our military will be working with other techniques, foreign techniques, they'll be serving exactly what they actually are. And that's what we're looking at with the Canadian side. In order to be able to serve what is needed, our experts are being trained at the Academy of the Armed Forces, at the Kamyanec-Podilsky institution, at the Odessa Institute of Land Forces and at the training centre in Mikolayev. So we're taking negative experience into account and we're trying to fix it. I think the situation will be rectified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u46	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u47	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. First. If possible, please describe the number of countries and armies in which the troops of Ukraine are present today? And the second. You said that the region where the corresponding Ukrainian contingent is scheduled to be sent is non-conflict. In this regard, how can we gain experience there? What will he manifest himself in the back of his head? That's what I think home can do, and if it's military, argue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Now I can't give you information materials from all the peacekeeping units there are. If I have to, I will tell you directly, but I would like to point out that the decision of the Supreme Council was that in May there will be a separate session that will present the whole spectrum of our peacekeeping operations in recent years, a summary of this activity. I think we'll have the opportunity to discuss this in detail. There is no such possibility in this regulation right now. What's relevant to experience is, indeed, it is, yes, it is limited, I share your opinion here, it's not the kind of combat experience that could have been gained, for example, in Kosovo or even in a peacekeeping operation, an anti-terror operation in Iraq. But still, our rear divisions have to work side by side with our colleagues from other countries, including, I said, neighbouring states. This is also the question of language preparation, this is the question and doctrine, the tactics of applying such units. With all its limitations, it's positive, and that's in addition to what we're doing in the budget. I think it's helpful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u49	Mathvienne instead of Larin, faction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, half a ton quieter, the work is going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have three questions for you. And if there's a possibility of that, it's more concise, it's a clear answer. First. Whose direct command does this battalion belong to, that is, whose command this battalion is taking? That's the first one. Second. The battalion's set-up. Third. What are the specific tasks of the battalion's leadership? And question number four. Why, though, is the funding mechanism made from the budget, the funds provided for the financing of the armed forces? If these funds were indeed compensated, would it not be easier to date, given that the army was actually reforming, and the army needed these funds to date, would it not be easier to enter into direct contracts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u51	Thank you. The first is about subordination. The training, direction, rotation, and operational management of matters related to national command are carried out by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. As for the tasks assigned to this mission, there are 1,073 military personnel, I've named the countries that are participating. This mission is managed by the general of the country of Nepal. That is, in this sense, we are already in line with UN missions. With regard to tasks. I gave them a brief name. I am ready to provide guidance on what will be done. It's back-up, transport, medical supplies, cargo and people, including refrigeration and so on. I have detailed help, I can pass it on. As far as the structure is concerned. The law provides for up to 200 people. Now, in the Southern Command, a state-of-the-art structure is being prepared, and it's usually going to be approved by the government. One hundred and eighty-three are predicted. Of these, 57 officers, 43 flags; a sergeant and a soldier, 83 men. One of the units is a supply company, a liaison unit, a club, a medical facility, and so on. [[25 people]] [[24]] [[two persons]] [[five]] I can give you this detailed help so I don't have to take up time right now. The structure is now being refined, these people are preparing, plus 15 percent of the reserve to be able to respond quickly to certain changes. We have no doubt that the preparations will be completed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u53	Excuse me, please. More on funding. We cannot influence what we cannot influence. The funding mechanisms for such missions are determined by the decisions of the United Nations, and this is not the question of how we would like to determine. But in fact, it's a small amount of military budget and the country's budget -- it's close to, according to our estimates, 9.6 million. A year's worth of money. And such a reserve is in the Ministry of Defence, and this issue will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u54	Anatoly Stepanovich, thank you, time's up. He is invited to report to the National Security and Defence Committee of Georgia Korniyovich Kručkov. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u55	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee addressed this issue in a comprehensive manner yesterday, and members of the committee came to the conclusion to recommend that the Supreme Council approve the decision to send our contingent to the Golan Heights area. We have come from what is called the United Nations Security Council, which is the request of both sides that are conflicting with each other. It is predicted that our military forces will not engage in hostilities, and they will solve the tasks of rear security. Costs will be fully covered by the United Nations. I would like to say that there have never been any misunderstandings with the United Nations. That's very good. I'll talk about it a little bit later. We've come to the conclusion that this is a humanitarian mission, it's an experience, and the deployment of the contingent is in Ukraine's national interest, its status as a UN member, will help to increase the image of our country as an active participant in international peacekeeping operations and to consolidate our positions in the Middle East, which is very important for Ukraine. In connection with this discussion, I wanted to make some comments. Indeed, the United Nations, unlike others, is very clear about its obligations, as did the Americans. You know that action in Iraq is not cheap for our country. When we made a decision by a majority in the Supreme Council on the deployment of the contingent, then one of the theses was that it would contribute to our economic consolidation. Recently in foreign media, such as the English-language website. "First News," a publication under the eloquent title "Ukrainian soldiers may die in Iraq, but Ukrainian citizens cannot work there." A 90 - page printed paper prepared by the Pentagon for companies wishing to share in the supply of drinking water. Well, it's pretty detailed, but there are these words that are very interesting to us, a chapter of a tender called "Work" number five: "Next nationalities are forbidden to be in Iraq and third-country nationals should not be hired if they are citizens of such countries: Afghanistan, Algeria, Belarus, Bulgaria. [[Skipping]] Ukraine and Vietnam. ” Here's your strategic ally, and here's your participation in the coalition forces. That's what I'd like to say. And secondly, I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that today's President, in electing this office, has promised that one of his first decrees will be an order for immediate withdrawal of our contingent from Iraq. By the days, literally yesterday and the day before yesterday, the decree was published, which predicts that the output will take place by the end of this year. I would like to say that many of the promises of today’s authority are in this very key: promises were, they are not being fulfilled. Name: The separation of business from power, such saturation of big business in government in Ukraine, has never been. I can say for my obligation to act in the legal field. And there was fair criticism at the address of the previous regime, fair criticism. Today, we see that the President, who is obliged to issue decrees in accordance with the laws and the Constitution, adopts decrees that violate the Constitution, and only after that does he intend to introduce draft laws. I would like to say that the practice of political repression has become dangerous, and this is already disturbing in society. Unfortunately, so far, the West, which will never depart from the euphoria, taking a two-digit stand and professing a double morality, is still looking at it calmly. But I think that's where the patient gets in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, a question to the committee's head, please. Please sign up. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u57	To Bogdan Kostinyuk, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u58	Bogdan Kostinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u59	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear reporter, it's a pity that you spent half your time answering your answer is not in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u60	It's my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u61	In general, we agree with the statement that the adoption of this law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine will enhance the authority of Ukraine in the international arena, even though it is a rear contingent of up to 200. But I'd like to ask you something else. A call from the United Nations Secretariat was made last May. Power passed, and the former president issued a decree on December 15 of last year. It's April. Why is this a stretch? Can this delay be assessed as disrespecting the appeal of the United Nations Secretariat of the former authorities? Is this another explanation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u62	Dear colleague, this question was raised by us at the committee meeting. We were given an explanation. Well, first of all. At the previous stage, contacts with conflicting parties took place. There's been a deal. A draft law on the approval of our contingent has been introduced. The Supreme Council has not been able to consider this bill because of the familiar situations that have been reflected in Parliament. Under the Rules, draft laws that have not been considered and introduced by the previous President are being withdrawn. And today's authorities have just filed, and you can see that the committee is very fast. Both ours and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which unanimously made the same decision that we did. I accept, submits for consideration by the Supreme Council. So the situation is familiar to you, and on the committee, at least it wasn't entirely dependent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u63	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u64	Thank you. Please give the word to my comrade Victor Borisovich Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u65	Victor Petrov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u66	Petrov, the Communist faction. Dear Georgi Korneevich, we remember how we were united and old, and the new government, when it was decided to send our contingent, obviously not a peacekeeping one, to Iraq. It was the aggression of the United States of America and it was the demand of Washington that our troops be there. There was a promise from the rostrum when we went there that we would have the opportunity. There, the work of enterprises, our people, will be carried out by economic ties. You were recently in Iraq as a member of the delegation. As the Pacific strategic partners, they live up to the promises they had made. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u67	I have to say that I was present at all the meetings, including with the coalition leadership, and with the representatives of the U.S. State Department, who represent the state there, and with others. We must say that the conversations were absolutely tolerant and there was no objection to our involvement in the postwar reconstruction of Iraq. But the document is a document. I didn't think of anything. Well, after an appropriate atmosphere was created with regard to this tender, it was reported that it was a purely technical error, because when writing the application in the Pentagon, they used outdated materials. So our attitude is known, it's found. It's old, but it's old. And, he said, after that, a comment with a discriminatory requirement on Ukraine and other states was removed from the text. And maybe it's done. But it's just one tender, and how many other tenders there are! That's what they are. We don't know. So there's something to think about. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u68	Valentin Landik, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u69	Dear George Constantineovich, I do not understand whether the committee supports or does not support the President in this decision to send or not to send our contingent? That's the first question. And the second question, after all. What is the basis for the answer? The minister said I don't have the confidence that the UN will pay, and you said the committee thinks the payment will be from the UN. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u70	First. I don't know how to say more clearly that the committee supported the decision and recommends to the Supreme Council to adopt the law. And in relation to, perhaps there is a minister of some doubt, I am talking about what has happened so far. We had no conflicts, and thank God. I don't think it will be this time, because the Security Council and the participants in this conflict have been very much asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u71	Georgi Korniyovich, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes as we agreed. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up, please. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to speak. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Party of Motherland's Defenders has always worked out that the army needs to create good conditions and create conditions to protect the country from all kinds of external aggression. At the same time, we were concerned and voted against the deployment of troops to Iraq, and history has shown what we did right. Today I have passed and registered an alternative bill which was passed by the President, which is called "On Approval of the President's Decision." [[on the deployment of a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in the United Nations, monitoring the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian troops]] He suggests that by acknowledging Ukraine’s appropriate participation in the UN forces and monitoring the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian troops, we should be able to approve of the decision to target Ukraine’s participation in the UN forces and to observe the disengagement of the Israeli and Syrian peacekeeping forces in the rear divisions by a total of 200 troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, provided that we are Ukrainians, we must learn to put the conditions into place. Under what circumstances does the United Nations Secretariat recognize the acceptability and obligation of the requirements set out in paragraph 3.8. This Law. What are the points? To determine that military personnel in the designated rear unit are not involved in hostilities and this is very important because this is not provided by the mandate of the UN forces and by monitoring the disengagement of the Israeli and Syrian forces as defined in UN Security Council Resolution No.350. Fourth, Ukraine is involved in monitoring the disengagement of Israel’s Syrian forces, by providing a UN secretariat that is asking for its power and means to comply with the requirements of their national legislation in part that is not contrary to the laws of Ukraine. Fifth, military and other individuals who are part of Ukraine’s forces and who are involved in monitoring the disengagement of the Israeli and Syrian armies, are not subject to the legislation of the countries in which these measures are being carried out. And these people are under Ukraine's jurisdiction. The special means, the sixth, and the materials of the Ukrainian forces are property of Ukraine and are not subject to alienation. Seventh, the United Nations Secretariat is making amends. soldiers and others who are part of Ukraine’s forces and members of their families have all the costs associated with injury, disability, or death in the event that such damage was caused during the period of Ukraine’s forces, monitoring the disengagement of the Israeli and Syrian armies. In order and size defined by the UN Secretariat. Given that the amount of these compensations and compensations should not be less than that. It's supposed to be the laws in force in Ukraine. And it provides Ukraine with full compensation for Ukraine's spending on providing such persons with the benefits, guarantees and compensations imposed by Ukraine's legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to vote in favour of this bill, because it's the Law I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u73	Yes. Thank you. Mironenko Victor, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u74	Fifth constituency, Crimea Mironenko, faction of Ukraine. Respected compatriots, the Ukrainian Federation would vote in favour of the bill, but would support the bill. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the United States of America, in an effort to bring the United Nations to its service, is very often detaining its mandatory contribution to the United Nations to finance United Nations programmes. This, of course, may have a negative impact on the financing, compensation for the financing of our troops. Secondly, I would like to draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, to the need for more careful foreign policy decision-making, which is not always done by the distinguished Victor Andreevich Yushchenko. Cuba, for example, led by the Compartia of Ukraine, Fidel Castro of Ukraine, Cuba. Please forgive Cuba, which is headed by the Cuban Company, Fidel Castro, has treated 20,000 children of Ukraine, poor children of Ukraine, free of charge. We should be grateful for that. And honesty, conscience should have forced the President of Ukraine to request the President of the United States of America to end the immoral, brutal blockade of Cuba, which reduces the standard of living and so poorly living of the Cuban people. But instead of thanking President Yushchenko unexpectedly for Ukraine, the people of Ukraine made an immoral, cruel joint statement with President Bush, in fact supporting President Bush in the blockade of Cuba. The statement was an intervention in the affairs of the sovereign States of Cuba, a friendly State to us, doing much for us and brotherly neighbouring Belarus. I believe that this is an unfair position of the President, who makes an honest person look like an honest person. It is immorally cruel, it must dissuade this statement from continuing to allow such an unconscionable claim to its own people, which it has received, let's just say, a huge, free assistance from the Cuban people, which itself does not live richly. If you are respectable motorists, respected members of the Block of Timoshenko, members of the faction of the Sociatus of Ukraine, ruling three parties and blocs, if you are honest people, you will condemn President Yushchenko's position. Make him disavow his statement. In doing so, you will demonstrate that you are honest people. Otherwise, I will not reap your hand, because I will think that you are immoral, cruel, dishonest people, lying in elections, lying to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u75	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! Vasily Nadrag, People's Party. We have discussed this issue in factions and, of course, it can be said that, unlike Iraq, there are several points here: that there is an official United Nations appeal, there is agreement with the conflicting parties, and in principle, we can say that everything is good. But look where we're sending our contingent today. The first, and most fundamental, is in a conflict that is more than 50 years old. It's all about ethnic, historical, military problems. Who knows a little more about the situation, you know that the Golan Heights are the main theme of water, because whoever owns the Golan Heights owns the water. And in that region, that's the main thing. Therefore, more than enough questions. I have to say that we never heard the same thing about social consequences if, God forbid, our people are going to die there, so talk about it. I'm sorry, but I don't think it's back-up. Where war is, it is war. But I would like to devote the remaining time to a few other topics directly related to today's issue. This is about the social protection of our peacekeepers. Unfortunately, my bill, which was proposed in this room, is not supported. The second bill, which we, with the distinguished head of the Sectoral Committee, have submitted to the Supreme Council for the Social Protection of Peacekeepers, also depends largely on it. What's the problem? The problem is as follows. In the current practice that has taken place in our State, peacekeepers are subject to the Act on the Status of the Participant of the Great Homeland War and the guarantees of their social protection. So we're comparing the Peacekeeper to the Great Fatherland War, a participant in the fighting of the era, so we'll call it, until the 91st year, when people went, they did their military duty. At best, they received a public reward, but there is no longer material reparation. So when we talk about how there is social protection for peacekeepers today, I'll give you my own opinion. I do not agree with the fact that peacekeepers receive the same social guarantees that the elderly receive today, which are far over 80 years old and who have won a fairer one without any rewards or anything like that. Therefore, I believe that if we make such a decision, we must also resolve the issues that are related to what will happen to these people when they return to Ukraine, how they will perceive society as they have done there. And most importantly, how society, I'm not afraid of that word, will pay them for going and doing their duty. I therefore consider that today, without exception, all of us, including those on whom the bill is based, are obliged to raise and consider the issue without mixing it with the participants in the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u77	Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected comrades. Today, it is not only our Ukrainians, not only the military, who are being followed by the general public of the Republic of Syria and Israel, who are watching the issue in the Supreme Council. I would like to tell you today, not as a member of the Supreme Council, but as Chairman of the subcommittee. I am the head of the Inter-Parliamentary Group "Ukraine-Syria". Last year our delegation was in Syria. We were in the Golan Heights. The Syrian side, the Israeli side, is not what they agree on, but they ask that it be our Ukrainian peacekeepers on the line of separation between Israel and Syria. What's the problem? You remember the outcome of the 1967-1973 war. To date, the conflict between those States has not been resolved. There was a truce. And he made a commitment to bring peace there today. It asked States that were members of the United Nations to participate by their forces in the zone of separation. Georgi Korneevich said it was the most humanitarian. I've been, I've been meeting with the governor of the governorate who's entering the Golan Heights, they're all asking. Knowing the dignity of our soldiers, knowledgeable experience, martial arts, they asked to be sent there. They trust us and our soldiers. If we don't trust ourselves, we don't trust our soldiers, so do we. Can we head that way? Therefore, I ask you, if any of the members of the Supreme Council doubt you will come to me, I will give you a video where you will see what conditions Canada's troops are in today, and tomorrow our troops will be serving there. I think it's primarily our moral duty. Syria noted the 59th anniversary of its independence yesterday. The Syrian Embassy in Ukraine is being launched as a joint effort Monday. Here is the representative of Our Ukraine, Igor Ivanovic Ostaš. He was with us in Syria, and he said, "Anatoli Ivanovich, we see what is done there, and it is our duty to vote for us to send our contingent there and ensure peace in this fragile region. Thank you. I ask you all to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u79	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Gennady's handing over the Widow. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I have been part of the United Nations for some 30 years, and I well know that for each country it is a great recognition from the United Nations when the United Nations invites one country or another to participate in peacekeeping operations. And not the country, the Ukrainian State, demands the UN, and the United Nations puts requirements before Ukraine and another state. Let's count it. Each invitation is accompanied by a huge struggle — the struggle for the right to participate in peacekeeping operations. And today, to accuse the United Nations of not being counted as such in the history of the United Nations, I say, was not for peacemaking organizations. Ukraine is not counted with the United Nations. The former government has allowed a great deal of debt to pay off our compulsory contributions to the United Nations — that is, what we need to ask, not that the United Nations is not going to pay. And from a political point of view, the presence of the Ukrainian contingent under the auspices of the United Nations in the Middle East is a direct defence of our national interests. Instead of allowing the conflict to escalate in the Middle East, we must do our utmost to participate actively in its resolution. I think the first part about the decision of the Defence Committee, and what Georgi Korniyovich was talking about, he really made clear the importance of Ukraine's participation in this peacekeeping contingent. Thank you for your attention. And I would like you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u81	Please, the Black man insists on motive. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I have the right to speak out of motives, and I have been written down next. This is a very important mission to be carried out by Ukrainian peacekeepers — the disunity of Syrian and Israeli troops at the hot spot of the planet. I think we need to support that decision. But it has to be stressed that on the basis of three conditions: the UN's first mandate is not to participate in hostilities, the second is to be done on the basis of compliance with Ukraine's legislation, and the third, on the basis of cost-recovery. Indeed, Ukraine should pay for its contribution to the UN, but the United Nations must compensate for all the damage that Ukraine is doing in connection with peacekeeping missions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u83	One minute to lock up, Hooky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, thank you for your active discussion. I wanted to answer the question raised by Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. He also rightly questioned the passage of the bill. I would like to inform you that, with the information that I have, the President of Ukraine will shortly be introducing the draft law amending the Act on Ukraine's participation in international peacekeeping operations, which is based on the bill that Vasil Ivanovich and I worked with you, and we will consider where the issues will be resolved. Very well answered the question of colleague Cherniak. This is also a draft law, and I think we have every reason to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u85	The discussion is over, we'll vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in the United Nations Force for monitoring the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian troops. Bill number 7358. We vote in general as a law. Please vote. [[12:14:16]] For 287 The law is passed. The factions. Our Ukraine - 82, communist - 56, Ukrainian - 4, National Party - 15, Socialist - 10, Block Timoshenko - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, Social-Democracy - 0, Ukraine - 13, Democratic Ukraine - 18, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 7, Democratic Initiatives - 7, Union - 10, non-fractional - 17. [[United]] There's a bill. Dear colleagues! Voting motives have already taken place. We already voted, we had to speak with motive before the vote. What, you want a break? We were just getting some rest. A break of 30 minutes is announced, until 12:45.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! At our meeting, we have the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Maliarenko Vasil Timofiyovich, and the judges on whom we have to consider the issue of temporary election. Announcing the question of the election of judges. Reporter to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u87	Reverend Head! Honourable Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine! Honorable national MPs, candidates for judges, citizens! The Supreme Council was once again given the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the head of the Supreme Economic Court, as is the case with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis]] The Committee of the Supreme Council of Legal Policy, which is one of these issues, reviewed the submissions made and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take appropriate decisions on the matter. In particular, the Bill of Decree 7397. [[concerning the selection of judges on an uninterrupted basis]] According to article 85, paragraph twenty-seventh, part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to elect the judges of the Court of Appeal of the Volin Region of Zavisovsk-Marchuk Oksana Grigorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u88	Mikolo Vasilovich, one minute, excuse me. Dear colleagues! Let's do what we usually do. If the first deputy head of the committee calls the names and the court, if there's a warning against the candidature, you let me know, I'm making the right note. Then we vote in favour of those judges for whom there are no warnings or questions, and then we give specific consideration to the appointment of those judges to whom a national MP has questions or warnings. Do you have a deal? Please, Mikola Vasilovich, sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u89	Thank you. Let us continue with our respectable colleagues. The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region - Preda Dmitr Illich and Yatzenko Tetjan Leonidivna. The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region - Oguretskoo Vasil Petrovich and Fomenko Alexander Volodymirovic. The Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye County, Biloconev Viacheslav Mikolaajovich The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Kotzerbu Alexander Petrovich The Court of Appeal of Poltava County - Lisichenko Larissa Mikolayevna and Odin Olen Ivanovna. The Court of Appeal of Ternopil, Demkovich Yuri Josephovich Herson County Court of Appeal -- Harkus Valentina Alexandrovna. The Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region, Kekuh Volodymyr Fedorovich and Nedilka Mikola Ivanovich. The Court of Appeal of Chernigiv County is Jaroshenko Mikola Petrovic, Lviv's Court of Appeal - Krayevska Miroslav Vasilovna The local Saxon District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Cemetery Sergio Mikolaiovich The local Lenin district court of Vinnice - Vatšiny Sergey Andriyovich The local Mukativ District Court of Zakarpatsk, Monich Volodymira Alexiyovich. The local Kyimiv District Court of Zaporozhye District, Boyceva Natal Vasilovna. The local central district court of Mikolayeva - Yavorsk, Jeanne Mikolayevna The local Ordzanikidiv district court of Harkova - Lilus Svetlana Mikolayevna The local District Court of Herson County, Strebkova Jurija Alexiyovich. The local Hmelnicki District Court of Hmelnicke District is Saloyd Nadia Mikolayevna. The local Hotinsky District Court of the Czernovetsk Region, Vladimir Anatoly Ivanovich. The local Darnitsky District Court of Kiev - Malchenko Antonin Alexandrovna The local Pecher district court of Kiev - Melnik Andrija Volodymirovich Local Commercial Court of the Dnipropetrov region - Kochjeev Igor Mihajlović and the local court of the Herson district of Gridasov Yuri Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u90	It's about Gridasov, isn't it? Microphone, please, Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u91	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter. I wouldn't want to take Monich off the list right now, it's Mukacheve, but I'd like to ask him a question. If you don't mind, then I wouldn't have taken him off the list, just asked him a question, heard his answer, and I'd have had enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u92	Okay. Mikola Vasilovich's decision to the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the committee recommends that all of the above-mentioned judges choose the judges of the relevant courts on an untimely basis, including Monich, for whom a question will now be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u94	I'll ask Vladimir Alekseiovich Monich to come up to the microphone and turn on the microphone of Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovitch for a question. And invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u95	Vladimir Yavorowski. I would like to point out that I am not against Judge Monich, that his candidacy is generally accepted and is positive. But I don't care how you feel about the events that took place in Mukachev last year, which actually became a tragic song and the entire election campaign then the presidential one, in particular. Well, your civic position, in particular the decisions of the courts at the time, which literally on the second day all of this was admitted there and so on and actually took on shame. Once again, I don't have a claim on you, but I'm wondering how do you, as a citizen, appreciate these events and the very behavior of your colleagues' judges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u96	The judges were looking into the cases. I didn't look at them, there were some questions, well, and then they changed the case, and I didn't look into it. The court has been looking into these cases, too, and I haven't considered them. Some judges made decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, before the vote of Masenko for reasons of vote, please. Civil position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I, too, have no claim to any objection from the candidates for the post of judges. But on the occasion that the Justice Minister is here, the head of the Supreme Court, I would like to draw attention to the fact that not only was there such a violation then, which was brought to the attention of Mukachev. Now the same goes on when the courts make the exact opposite decision on the same issues, because now the authorities have a different color. So I would like to do this now and wish to the newly appointed judges and the heads of these institutions that we will give when we live to that point that we will judge by law, not by color and by any other sign. Let's give the judges and the wages so they don't look at anything else, no color, just the colors of money and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. Registration number 7397. Please vote. [[12:56:25]] For 328 Decision taken. Let us welcome judges who are elected to office on an untimely basis and wish them success in the service of the law. Yes, and the duty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide legal mechanisms for the material protection of our court, which would be fair, corrupt, and objective and transparent. Thank you. All right, Mikolo Vasilovich? Is there anything else? More? Thank you to the committee for preparing so well for the consideration. Dear colleagues, the draft Amnesty Act, registration number 5629-2, is being announced. [[re-read]] The reporter is Justice Minister Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. [[Applause]] The coconspirator is the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of the school’s law enforcement activities, Andriy Vasilovich. It is suggested that this is the time for consideration of the question : since this is a rereading of the first reading, for a report of up to five minutes, answers to questions of three minutes, for a co-report of up to five minutes, for an answer to a question to a co-rapporteur of three minutes, and for a committee to discuss and take a decision on this matter within 10 minutes. [[May I have your attention, please?]] No warning? None. Thank you. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine has commissioned me to present to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill that is being tabled for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is called amnesty. The task of the project is to establish a well-founded system of criteria for determining the circle of persons to whom amnesty is applied and to limit its application. This document is an act of humanity and the State's principle of humanism for persons who are serving sentences and legislative provisions in the current year of the component part of the institution for forgiveness by the State of persons who have committed crimes. The importance of the immediate adoption of the bill is due to the fact that amnesty was not announced in Ukraine during 2004. So I would like to give myself the opportunity to also point out that the position of the President is also that he is proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this draft Law in the first reading and in general in view of the situation that I have just outlined. Amnesty is supposed to be advertised, especially in the categories of convicted persons who are most vulnerable and socially vulnerable, namely, underage women and men. who have underage children, children with disabilities or parents who are disabled in the first group and need foreign care, pregnant women, elderly persons, war veterans, disabled people, etc. The basic criteria for applying amnesty under the project are the following: the slight social danger of acts committed by a person serving a sentence, the objective factors that, at the time of applying amnesty, significantly reduce the danger of the released persons, the considerable amount of the amount of time spent by convicted persons at the time of amnesty of punishment. The rights of judges are clearly regulated. Ukrainian courts, rather, on the application of amnesty in relation to persons serving in the territory of Ukraine according to judgments handed down by foreign courts. For the first time at the legislative level, it is the responsibility of criminal enforcement agencies to inform local self-government and health institutions about persons who are released under the Amnesty Act of Ukraine and who suffer from diseases that are socially dangerous to society such as tuberculosis and AIDS. This will, on the one hand, allow the welfare community to be protected from possible negative consequences and, on the other hand, to ensure timely treatment for the individuals involved. The introduction of the Amnesty Act will not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, and the adoption of this law will reduce the number of persons currently serving sentences at places of deprivation of liberty and which do not constitute a significant social danger and contribute to the improvement of the social and economic conditions of convicts held in institutions of the criminal enforcement system. This important act of the State will promote the establishment of humane principles in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u101	Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Yeah, on the board. Jemilev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u102	Please give the word to Hennadia Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u103	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u104	Mr. Secretary, as you know, Ukraine is taking, in paws, the "honorable" eighth place in the world, and you could become members of the "great eight" now by the number of people sentenced to 10,000. It's the eighth place in the world. Among these are many people who have been tortured, and under the influence of these tortures they have found themselves guilty, and our very fair Ukrainian court has sentenced them to imprisonment. Is it not also possible to extend this Amnesty Law by adding that people who have been subjected to physical illegal methods are also subject to amnesty? Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u105	Dear Gennady Josephovich, I am also well aware of the fact that such circumstances took place in our penal institutions. Sadly, however, such measures require a proper court decision to be applied in order for them to be applied. We cannot act beyond what is defined by the laws of Ukraine, especially as part of part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine allows the authorities of the State to act exclusively in order, within and in the manner provided for in both the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And the facts that you have named are strictly judicial, and therefore, in the absence of appropriate court decisions, of course, the executive authorities have no other option of releasing such persons. Instead, a broad meeting of the President of Ukraine was held on the subject of the state of affairs in this area, and at the direction of the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is now preparing a bill, such a multifaceted bill, which will be drawn up as follows: first, the humanization of individual dispositions of the Criminal Code, as well as the democratization of certain conditions mentioned in the Criminal Code, in order to get rid of such things as you have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u106	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u107	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Please pass the word to Mishura Valery Dmitryevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u108	Mishura's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u109	Mishur, the Communist faction. Roman Mikhailovich, as a graduate of Columbia University, you should know well the world practice that amnesty is always in the midst of an event. How do you look at writing in the preamble, which, let's say, this amnesty takes place in connection with the 60th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Nativity war, and in the text itself, clearly marks this amnesty category, the participants in the Great Homeland War. [[Well, to some kind of ceremony.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u110	Dear Valery Dmitrovich, I can only answer within the limits that I have jurisdiction. I am now speaking, not as a minister of justice, but as an official who can present to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the position of the President of Ukraine on this bill. I would just like to point out that the subject of the legislative initiative of this bill is not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but is the President of Ukraine, and I am only referring to the institution of the President of Ukraine as much as the President has given me this task. I cannot answer your question directly because I have not received such an assignment from the President of Ukraine. Instead, let me point out to you and to the members of your faction, because I know that this is an important subject that, I also agree, deserves attention. We're just here. The president is proposing to release a single category of people from their places of freedom, namely war veterans, who fall under this category. [[and there are many]] If you please, I could show you the exact number of persons who might fall under amnesty. [['Cause we've broken the numbers.]] I think it's about one and a half thousand of these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u111	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. He's the committee of the School Andrews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u112	Thank you. I would like to present the opinion of the Committee on Law Enforcement, which was very professional in this law, and I would like to remind you that in the Supreme Council we have the Chief Legal Authority and the Chief Executive of Matsuk said, but they would recommend giving priority to Bill 5269-D, where the problem is more perfectly outlined. I co-authored this MP bill, but I understand that for two years, I fully agree with the reporter, for two years there was no amnesty in Ukraine. There were many reasons why they were different, but people who needed a humane attitude were innocent. So to improve, to accelerate the passage of amnesty in general, we called off our bill to allow you to vote clearly, clearly, on the proposal made by the President. In addition, my personal suggestions were taken into account, which were presented in a letter to the committee heads, signed, and I suggested that some adjustments be made here. Plus, I would like to add an item in the article five: To convert to categories that fall under the amnesty of people who committed a crime of indiscretion. Part of it was taken into account, so I don't personally have big claims and I can't have them. So I call on the honourable people's deputies to support this bill, because I, as the author of the previous amnesty law, know with what trembling people are looking forward to in places where they're depriving themselves of this amnesty. And I'm very happy that we can vote on this law in general today and as a law. There was a question. I'd like to say that you can put it under all the dates, it's at Easter, under 60 years of Victory Day in World War II, that's all. One way or another, the change of power, it's all going to make sense to society. I don't think and I'm convinced you don't have to write anything in the Preamble. We have people who are smart and farsighted, they'll take everything clearly and clearly. I'd only like to take this opportunity, using the presence of the minister of justice, to stop distracting him, but he'll listen. Minister, I hope he's listening. Yeah, that's it. So I would like to point out that we have many things that we have left to inherit from the previous regime. Especially on March 9th. I wanted to get the public's attention on this, and I wanted to get the answer, after all. I am addressing the President with a similar request. This question will be tomorrow, so I'm already aspiring to support you today, and I want an answer: who was responsible for the events on March 9th? Those who staged the provocation, or those who were then, who were accused of the case, and the boys were innocently serving two, three, a year and a half in detention centres and prisons. I want an answer: Who's to blame? Whether we are guilty or we are guilty of false acts. If they are guilty, they should be called to account, or at least they have no right to be in positions and to perform the functions they perform. This also applies to judges who made the decision. This is also true of investigators who formed a whole investigation group of 50 people and set up the case. It touches witnesses who know that they are not truthful in breaking the same law, yet they have testified in spite of their will, contrary to their logic and contrary to the truth. So actually one of the amnestys that was adopted, and I was the author, and I made some adjustments to the situation of illegal prisoners on March 9th, but not quite. So these guys, we're not rehabilitated, the case is still open, as a fact. So I'd like to see that in the background of a humane act like amnesty, it does sound and it does. Because when we talk about democracy, democracy doesn't have to be and can't be selective, it can and should only be full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u113	Three minutes to ask, please sign up for a question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Sergey Zizko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u114	You can see from the report. That for more than two years, people haven't been out of amnesty and the question is, how many people are out of a percentage ratio and how many are out of an amnesty, what are the possibilities of their social adaptation and employment. Well, and I want to welcome these people out with pardons, often few guilty, to be free before the Passover and at the decision of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. I'll start at the end with the question of resocialization. There is law, the Supreme Council has passed the Act on Social Adaptation of Persons Released from Places of Willlessness. And under this law, there will be measures for social adaptation of the freed, including amnesty. The number of people to be released, I'll make it clear by the law that the people's deputies proposed, that was 17,000, that the quota is slightly increasing here, that's going to be 20,000 amnesty freed. But this promising number, in fact, is decided by the court and only by the court. The amnesty law does not automatically release anyone, unfortunately too much, amnesty acts in this way. So the law that the President is proposing will make it easier for these people to go free, but of course not automatically release everyone, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u116	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please give the floor to my colleague Mishuri Valeri Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u118	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u119	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. I want to ask you the same question that I asked the Minister of Justice. Let's say war veterans are a very broad concept, and you can put anyone in here. I stress once again that world practice says that amnesty is just up to some remarkable date. We have a date that defines the whole world, a 60-year victory over the brown plague, over fascism. The Soviet army saved the entire human civilization. So why don't we say, before this date, specifically mark the veterans of the Great Homeland War or the participants in the great domestic war who are condemned? That's the first question. And the second question. How do you feel about the fact that, for example, those grandfathers who drew a map of a trip to Kiev against that old authority? Should they be amnesty today or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u120	I'll start again with the second part of your question. I'm totally in solidarity with you, and they would have to be amnesty not only for this amnesty, but for the previous one. Sadly, though, the Amnesty Law is determined in a way that, unfortunately, this article does not amnesty with this law or the preceding one. But I would suggest to the Supreme Council and to you personally, we can pass a law on a single amnesty for a special matter. And here, believe me, I would personally vote in favour. With regard to your question, the first part of the question, article 1, provides for the release from punishment of veterans of war. And in the preamble, it says that this amnesty is set on such an outstanding date. And I'll say it's for the subject of the legislative initiative, it's not for me. But I think the smart guy will realize it's on the eve of Easter and on the eve of Victory. So it's absolutely clear that these dates are not just counted, and so we urge, personally, I ask everyone to be voted in general as a law on amnesty before these two great bright dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u121	And Vasily Ivanovich Potapov, please. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u122	Vassili Potapov, faction of the Regions. Dear rapporteur, I am in favour of asking the question of Mishur honorablely, you have once again sounded war veterans. What war? What we are so afraid of is the recording of veterans of the Great Homeland War, who have already been determined by law. It's on the one side. On the other hand, this law does not take into account the social situation at all. In fact, the unemployment rate is much higher than the one declared and shown in statistics. All twenty thousand who will come out will actually come out, and I think the hall will vote, they'll fill a hundred percent of the unemployed army. And what will be the situation? Do you not think that it is possible and necessary to provide for specific rules that would allow all those who have gone out to have a slightly higher right to be employed, especially some public authorities to undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u123	Thank you. I specifically talked about what is the law, we passed a law on social adaptation of people who are released from places of deprivation, then I proposed, but unfortunately this was not supported, such a rule that enterprises that take these persons to themselves have certain preferences from the state. I think state-owned enterprises would be interested then. This has not been done then, but we, as the subject of the legislative initiative, have the full right to amend the Law on the Social Adaptation of Persons Released from Places of Will. There's absolutely no way we can do that. It's about war veterans. You know, every law is written to make it brief and clear. We have veterans, unfortunately, of various wars, including those of war veterans in Afghanistan, and they're also going to have to predict a category. This could be expanded. I don't mind. But once again, I'm going to stress that this law, I'm going to report the law, the author of the bill, I'm sorry, the author of which is the President of Ukraine. So you can make corrections after the first reading, I can't deny it, but not now, not from the voice and not from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u124	Thank you, Andry Vasilovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please put the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled for discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka. It's time we made a deal with you, dear colleagues, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u125	It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two laws to consider today. I'm going to talk more about the law that the President of Ukraine is proposing, because he's speaking on behalf of the new government, the people of Ukraine have entrusted him with this most important position in the state, and apparently, speaking on his behalf, the minister of justice has offered to adopt the law now in two readings. I'd like this to be the last offer made by the minister of justice. Why? Because, unfortunately, I have been prevented from hearing from the Minister of Justice, my colleague Rudzkowski is in the way. I would like the minister of justice at the last of this rostrum to propose the adoption of the law in the first and second readings immediately. Because of what? Because MPs have the right to take the legislative initiative and have the right to make their own proposals here. And a loving law, as great as this, cannot be perfect so that it does not change. For example, the question is that a mass of crimes are being investigated today in connection with the falsification of elections. And it's not written that amnesty does not spread to these crimes. And today's non-punishment of people who faked elections, non-punishment, non-involvement of people who are here today, and what have they done, as they have beaten militiamen and people both in Zakarpat, and elsewhere? The point is that all the mouths of the state are washed away. The inevitability of punishment is a fundamental principle. Amnesty must be accepted in the version proposed by the President. Why do I like this one? Because article 15 states: “For the purpose of ensuring the timely provision of necessary medical care to freed persons from places of deprivation of liberty who are in active form of tuberculosis, oncological diseases or AIDS, criminal enforcement agencies shall immediately notify the relevant authorities of local self-government and health authorities of the discharge of the persons concerned. And you know that today the biggest mass is concentrated on tuberculosis and AIDS in places of deprivation. It is, unfortunately, yes. And once so, society must be protected. And it's not protected yet. It is very important that this is already proposed in the law. We need to anticipate both the mechanism and the funding for the practical implementation of this law. And that's why I would ask you to adopt this law in the first reading, and then we could make proposals. And, of course, I agree with the suggestions to write the "Veterinians of the Great National War" so that it doesn't spread to those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u128	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u129	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. It is unfortunate when senior officials, including the Minister of Justice, claim to represent the President, forgets that he is the Minister of Justice. And often, even in his interview, he does it, and what he's actually doing is covering up crimes, it's written down in his own powerlessness, which, as a matter of fact, I can't do anything. This concerns the opposition. Well, now it's basically a question. The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine proposes that only on first reading, the second reading must be accompanied by what was said with regard to the participants of the Great Homeland War veterans, and many comments from the Scientific and Expert Office, which have a lot of business, must also ensure that those who have committed serious economic crimes are excluded from the list of amnesties to be amnesty. I would like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine to what everyone sees: crime is terrible, but neither the President nor the Government nor the law enforcement agencies are fighting for the causes of this grave crime, nor are they saying clearly what the cause of the crime is. A large number of people are arrested, then released, and prisons are overcrowded and so on. But it is understandable to all that the causes of socio-economic, criminal capitalist orientation generate unemployment, as just mentioned by the deputies, unemployment deprives people of their livelihood and often pushes them into crimes. Social injustice: alone in power, the oligarchs were in power, and the oligarchs were left in power, so why does power close the eyes of the same Volkov who was at Kuchma - now at Yushchenko's, Timoshenko lives splendidly, is cozy, and the oligarchs thrive. Some oligarchs have even taken office in the Presidential Administration, in the Government, the oligarchs are great capitalists, I mean, and they express their interests there. I call on the people of Ukraine not to vote in the next elections, which will soon be held in 2006 in no way for those who will continue to be capitalist, i.e. the present power, to vote for the current power in no way. To support only socialist supporters, unemployment, poverty, social injustice will be eliminated, crime will be eliminated and the lives of the people will be really improved. Otherwise, if you vote also, as has been the vote of all recent years, this criminal capitalist course will continue, the people will suffer and the oligarchs will rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u130	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u131	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The definition of the system of criteria for the circle of persons to whom amnesty is applied is noble and socially significant. But in caring for the manifestations of humanity and principles regarding perpetrators of crime and punishment, the first thing to do is to show humanity and compassion for the victim, not to mention the deep understanding of their condition and the moral support of society, for there is no call for forgiveness in the spirit of Christian morality to bring happiness back to the family that has buried the child or survived its rape. It's a lot of pain, and you don't have to forget that. There can be no motivation behind this argument for the adoption of the bill that amnesty was not announced in Ukraine during 2004 or that amnesty for patients with tuberculosis and AIDS would allow society to be protected from the spread of these diseases. I am convinced that there is nothing that prevents us today from bringing order, prevention, and medical care to those who need it in places of deprivation right now. The People's Party faction will support the prescribed bill in amnesty for the most vulnerable and socially vulnerable categories convicted of minor socially dangerous activities. At the moment, we cannot inadvertently support the initiatives on the application of amnesty for deliberate and serious crimes, far from being fully listed by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority in the conclusion of this bill. So that it doesn't go as well as in the aphorism that we're "mild intentions to clear the way to hell" and that the desire to testify to our humanity to the whole world will result in even greater damage to the image of our nation. You can't ignore the constitutionally established principles, for example, that people are equal in dignity and rights, that destroys the already broken system of social values and wakes up our society, and we'll be torn down accordingly. But given the importance of adopting the bill and taking into account the observations, the faction of the People's Party will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u132	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Dear voters! I don't think anyone has any doubt about that. That the adoption of the Amnesty Law is, in fact, a humane act and it's meant to be, to some extent, those people who may unconsciously or in connection with the circumstances that have taken place in our country are in places of deprivation. But still, I'd like to support, to some extent, the proposal of my comrades and questions, and the statements that we're going to give some sense of purpose to this bill. Indeed, 60 years of the Great Victory do not occur every day. I don't demean Easter, but that's what happens every year, and 60 years of Victory is practical. And I think we should definitely take this moment into account and complement it in the Preamble with what this law is adopted and add "and on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War. I realize that this word is a little bit of a ship, and now on television and everywhere you'll see that it's not the Great Motherland, it's the world as it ran, but in advance I want to say that all Europe has been kneeling before the brown plague, and whoever doesn't speak, but only the Soviet state, only the socialist state could overcome this plague. So we don't want to take this moment into account, because this Law is being passed at this very time. We really need to take into account the comments about the veterans of the Great Homeland War. Indeed, for we can assign here to those who do not deserve this attention and who will be amnesty undeserved. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we may be voting in favour of the adoption of this bill in the first reading. But we and the President have to ask, and we have to predict that we can do everything we can to adapt these people to get out of their places of deprivation. And so there's absolutely no exception, and that's probably a guarantee that once they're out, they'll get back there and wait for Easter again, and there'll be no 60-year victory, and that round date will be very far away. So that's exactly what it takes to work very, very hard. And I'd also like to take one moment to look at who we're releasing and who we're releasing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u134	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, time is up. For the reasons of the vote Eugene the miner, please John the Rabbit and Vladimir Cherniak in one minute, please. People who didn't get a chance to come forward:
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u135	Eugene Gorenik, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u136	A miner, a hare, and a black man. Well, one minute at a time, what can I say? Well, one minute at a time, I say, with motive. And then. If we have to, let's sign up and get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u137	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please add 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u138	Okay, 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u139	I really support the proposal that amnesty be announced to us by some date and ask the President to resume the practice that has been in place for many years, that amnesty has been announced until Ukraine's Independence Day. This way, it will deprive political speculators of the opportunity to speak now. I also support the proposal for a clear definition of veterans as veterans of World War II, because veterans in general, it would be unfair for law-abiding Afghan veterans or participants in various events. I think there's a tendency to just advertise amnesty to women, because I don't know what makes criminals women different from men. Another thing, pregnant women and things like that. And so I ask the law-makers not to impose more presidents, and it must be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u140	Please, John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, but to pay particular attention to article 8. Article 8 tells us that the issue of amnesty is decided by the court on its own initiative and that a list of these initiators is still available. It seems to me that if the court is initiating such an investigation on its own initiative, it is a tribunal, not a court. I would exclude the court from this list, and there are other people who have to do this. The second question that I'm paying attention to is actually to look at those who faked electoral legislation. In fact, there are not only performers who fall under amnesty, but also organizers. But each one of you knows that it is impossible to become an organizer without opening a criminal case against the perpetrators. That's why I think this part of the bill needs attention. In general, this is a very liberal law. And I think we need to think about the people who are going to be released, so they don't run out of jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u142	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u143	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that amnesty is a tool to be used cautiously, delicately and elegantly. I have a suspicion that amnesty is not always subject to those who deserve it. So there are two very important questions. The first question is the criteria for determining who deserves and who doesn't. And the second. What body should carry out amnesty? And of course, it is very important that these people who have gone free not become criminals again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u144	Please, one minute, at the end of the vote. Minister of Justice, Roman Zvaric, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to listen carefully to my words. The President of Ukraine has instructed me to make a request for the adoption of this bill as a whole. Of course, the President of Ukraine is no worse than the national MPs realizes the position of article 92, which confers on national MPs, each individual and individual right of legislative initiative. And according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, if there is a denial of the adoption of the relevant draft law in general, of course this will be the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and here the authorization of the President of Ukraine has no bearing. That is why it is Parliament's will, and the President, of course, cannot dictate to the Parliament, which must be its will. As for the second observation that was made to my address, I chose my words very carefully. I am not talking about what I represent the President of Ukraine, because, of course, according to article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the power of the President of Ukraine is not passed on to anyone else, to any other body, and to no other official. Instead, I was commissioned by the President of Ukraine to present his position. His position is set out in an explanatory note, and I have no right to go beyond the position of the President of Ukraine, an assignment to represent which I have received from the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, they are motivated by insistence. Please sign up, three minutes. You'll have to write it down for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who were registered for reasons of vote. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I suggested that we accept the bill only on the first reading. And now Justice Minister Roman Zvaric has stated that he can't go beyond those assignments. But you all have a letter from the President asking him to consider this project as an urgent matter. We've considered it. But nowhere is it written by the President that the right of the people's deputies to amend or amend this law should be ignored in terms and in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I'd like to vote in favour of the presidential option and support it by accepting it on the first reading, then changing it, writing it -- veterans of the Great Homeland War, writing about what is not applicable to criminal cases that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u148	Yes, Chelnokov, the Communist faction, please. He's handing over Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u149	Yes, please pass the word to Peter Nikolevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u150	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The Communist faction proposes and will insist that this bill be considered today only on the first reading -- first. Secondly, it is imperative to state that this act is adopted in connection with the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory in the Great Homeland War. Thirdly, in article 1 and 13, it is imperative to note that this is the case for the veterans of the Great Homeland War. The third or fourth article should be reexamined in particular, for there are those who have committed particularly serious crimes, and they should not today or should not apply amnesty in relation to them. And the fourth. I'd like to ask you to give the President a heads-up, not to say that he has to cut down on those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to decision-making. There is a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Amnesty Act, registration number 5629-2, please vote. [[13:39:48]] For 374 Decision taken. In view of the relevance of this bill, let's anticipate the commission of a committee of profile so that it quickly takes into account the observations of the national deputies and prepares it for consideration, let's say, May 4, because by May 9, we're going to have to accept the appropriate one. What? Dear colleagues, the point is that it takes 14 days for work to be done. Well, it's only been 14 days. Well, what do you want? What does the President ask? Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, if any national MP denies it, we cannot accept it. And on that, let's run out of conversation. Since there is a notice, in fact, and a committee of profile, there are many inaccuracies. Let's count it, then we'll take it. It's being announced. Motives, respected colleagues, no, we've already voted on the document. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and make decisions from a number of bills. May I have your attention, please? Out of procedure three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who have been enrolled for the proceedings. From the procedural point of view, Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u152	I'm asking you to pass the word to Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u153	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u154	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Well, first of all, I want to celebrate the good work that we just did, almost unanimously adopting such an important bill on the first reading, and I think we did very wisely when. Well, this bill on the fate of specific living people, so we don't have to make a decision here, but we really have to make those clarifications that will help achieve this great goal, and I think that we did it very well. Thank you, everybody. Next, I think we should be in the same normal, tense rhythm, because we've been growing a few days lately, looking directly at the issue of the order of the day. In fact, from this point of view, I am simply proposing that we move on to further consideration of the day’s issue so that we may be able to consider today the necessary issues related to customs, issues related to oil products, because that is what millions of Ukrainians are looking forward to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u155	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u156	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'd like to take the floor to Simonek, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u157	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u158	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much: please support the proposal that I will now make from our faction. First, this chapter, Vladimir Mikhailovich, was broken up. Some economic issues that are very beneficial to some, let's say, are now included, and those that require a decision in relation to the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory have left something behind. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider and vote now. These are short texts of references to Heads of State and to MPs of all levels, this is Project 7171 and Project 7286. To vote on them, to include them, to discuss them, and to vote on them as a whole. These are projects that are related to the 60s of the Great Victory. I would like to ask: Your Honor, it is indeed our duty to give tribute to the great feat of our people and to accept them urgently, these projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u159	Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u160	May I have the floor to the deputy of Potapov?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u161	Please, Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Potapov, the faction of the Region. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we have recently adopted changes to the State budget this year. The conditions in which we accepted were clear to everyone, and during this period we have been warned that we are doing a great deal of wrong and reasonable work. There are now thousands of appeals by entrepreneurs about the situation that has arisen with the single taxpayers. I would like to find an opportunity and listen to the Minister of Finance, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, who sees the way out so that thousands of entrepreneurs will now cease their activities and close in connection with the requirement to move immediately to VAT in accordance with general legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, let's make a deal this way. Here we have a group of bills that we have to decide about putting them into the agenda and making the right decisions, so we're going to go, we're going to take the second chapter that we have, about inclusion, we're going to put it under this first and then we're going to vote for every question about including and making the right decision. No objections? None. Then you'll have to vote. Attention, please. - the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the customs tariff]] Registration number 7181. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[13:45:50.]] For 255 Questions are included in the agenda. Let us go to his consideration. Reporter - Minister of Economics and European Integration Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking’s subcommittee, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna. Dear colleagues, we're offering a report for up to 7 minutes, answers to questions - up to 3 minutes, for the report - 5 minutes and 3 minutes, and then discussions within 15 minutes. No objections? None. Yes, please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is submitting to you a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, which provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act and the sole customs tariff. Changes to customs tariffs have been prepared with the aim of improving customs tariff regulation in the context of anti-trafficking by reducing and eliminating excessive differentiation of import duties, prejudice to the possibility of unauthorized imports into Ukraine of individual goods, and ensuring stability in the consumer market. Such a decision is due to the fact that today, at the customs tariff on agricultural and food products, specific import duty rates are operating at a virtually prohibited rate of between 50 and 250 percent and, in some cases, up to 360 percent. In particular, for sunflower seeds are peeled and shelled, frozen squid, the current specific rate of import duty exceeds the customs value of 1.6 times, for shrimps -- six times, for cocoa powder, for olives -- according to 1.1-1.2 times. The presence of such a level of import duty entails the practical impossibility of legal imports of goods and the growth of smuggled products in the Ukraine market, which comes without payment of duties and other taxes. The large number of tariffs on uniform goods varies from 0 to 25 percent and above. So for example, time aromatized or non-romantic has import duty rates of 10 to 200 percent, ready food products obtained from grains, grain crops -- 20 to 114 percent, ready or preserved shellfish, shellfish and spineless -- from 20 to 600 percent. [[There, for example, cornflakes or mussels]] The existence of such differentiation allows individual entities to avoid paying taxes in full by misappropriating goods or underestimating customs duties. Among other things, this also enables tax collectors to be unclean in hand. So all of this causes a loss, both to the Ukrainian State Budget and to the domestic producer, because the shadow scheme for importing goods costs it a lot. The adoption of this law will affect the stability of the consumer market and the price situation on it, and illegal imports will enter legal flows, which, in turn, at the expense of taxation, will add to the government budget. Ukraine's bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine, submitted by the Government for consideration by the Supreme Council on 15 March this year, was processed by committees, factions of the Supreme Council, round table meetings in the Supreme Council on 21 March, meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 4 April this year, with leading producers and producers of agricultural products. The government has analysed the balance between the main groups of food products in the country and, together with national deputies and producers and processors, has prepared agreed proposals to protect the interests of domestic producers and consumers. So the bill under registration number 7,181 was again, and I would stress, worked out, and made available in a new edition as compared to March 15. It should be noted that the bill did not include the goods of underpriced commodity groups, such as wine, alcohol, and tobacco, which do not foresee a change in the rates of import duties. Individual products of group 08 are. Fruits that are not grown in Ukraine, as the change in rates on them is stipulated by the law that the Supreme Council adopted on March 15, this year. For the goods of group 1.24 that are reflected in the bill, import duty rates are provided for in the product groups. Two groups of meat and food. Animals have an import duty rate of 10%, but not less than 0.6 euros per kilogram. The bird’s meat is 10%, but at least 0.4 euros per kilogram. Meat products and individual products of the group, the rate of duty remained valid for what they are. For meat products, fish are expected to import at 10%, except for sausage products, which are expected to be at 30%. Given that, I would very carefully like you to be, the saturation of the internal market exclusively with your own food does not ensure the stability of food prices. In particular, with the demand and supply balance for meat and meat products for 2005, meat production is expected to amount to 1 million, 638,000 tons, at an internal market demand of 2 million, 30,000 tons. That is, meat shortages. which should be covered by an import charge of 430,000 tonnes. Based on the actual pattern of consumption of the population of Ukraine, the need for imports in the current year in species cuts is: beef - 21,000, pigs - 102, birds - 297. For your information, the consumption of meat at a level of 43.1 kilograms per capita is only 52 percent to a reasonable standard of consumption. I remind you that a rational standard of consumption for normal activity is 83 kilograms. The reason for the deficit is a reduction in the size of cattle, an increase in production costs, and an increase in the capacity of the internal market. The presence of these factors led to an increase in the consumer price index for meat and poultry last year by 48.6 percent, and in 2 months the current index by 6. I'd like to point out more of these things. Part of the imported meat group 02, food products account for 8.3 per cent of the total imports of goods in the group 1-24, although the import rate in most places today is almost 200 per cent of the customs value. This situation is explained by the fact that virtually all imports in this group have come over the last three years without paying import duties to special economic zones and priority areas. Imagine, honourable national MPs, 91 percent of the total imported meat and sub-products were imported into the TPR and into special economic zones mainly in the Donetsk region of Donetsk, including 84 percent of the total import of meat and food sub-products of birds, and 12 percent of the price of fresh or chilled. By the way, I can tell you that most of the import of these tax-free, tax-free birds were hormonal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u166	Thank you. Imagine that as a result of such imports, only 90 million dollars were paid to the State Budget instead of 3 billion 410 million dollars. So the government is proposing not to reduce the amount of tax we put on 1 to 24 groups, but to increase it according to what happened last year and the first two months of this year. So by summarizing what is being taught and considering that virtually all the positions that Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk will be talking about are agreed upon. The government requests that this law be adopted in the first reading and in general. The position of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Agrarian Policy will be brought to you by Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u167	Please sign up for the questions. The important question is, let's take five minutes anyway. That's the first one. The other one. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u168	Mr. Secretary, by fully sharing the goals and tasks of the proposed bill and by supporting the need to accept it as a whole, I would like to clarify, for that is exactly what your voice was on. The hormone, however, is about the hormonal meat that was imported. And I would also like to clarify, as we know, 24 free economic zones are in the Donetsk region. Did the smuggling of meat through these zones take place, and what were the volumes if you had information?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u169	Thank you. Unfortunately, one of my deputy ministers of economics signed protocols with a number of countries that allowed quota imports of birds, including the one that was hormonally modified. Part of the bird was converted into finished products and was not exported, including to the Russian Federation, but part of the bird was consumed by Ukrainian citizens. Clearly, such a new government cannot afford it, so it is no longer happening today. You know, with the support of the Supreme Council, the government's proposals to abolish any SESA and TPR credit regimes are half-smuggling, let's say the entire supply is over. And by quantity. I can tell you exactly. There were 273,000 tons of domestic poultry and 39.9 thousand tons of fresh or chilled pigs on a total of taxes, 3 billion 410 million dollars. Of which, once again, 90 million dollars, or three percent of the taxes, were paid. In the promissory form, 250 million U.S. dollars were taxed or seven percent were taxed. So roughly, we got 91 percent of all imports of meat and birds without paying any taxes. So we have to talk again and again about the increase in myths, not the decreases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u170	Yes, Little Omelyan Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u171	I'd like to give it to Volodymyr Mikolayovich Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u172	Novak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u173	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, very recently this rostrum was believed to be such, it was said that if we lower the customs tariffs on the goods industry, the prices of shoes, clothes, household appliances would fall. Sadly, life’s practice shows otherwise: Prices have not fallen at all. Where this leftover was going, of course, it went in her pocket and it was clear to who. Now I wonder, are you personally convinced that prices will be reduced to food products if the issue of tariff reductions is resolved? Does anyone have any responsibility for these assurances that sound from the rostrum today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u174	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. In the positions we took with you in March-months, I can tell you that after three weeks of monitoring at clothing prices, at shoes and at some food groups, prices fell, prices fell. [[They're fruits and vegetables that don't come from Ukraine.]] But keep in mind that, since the beginning of April, wages have increased by 17 percent and that is to say, citizens’ consumption has increased. So we see that there's an increase in circulation, an increase in consumption of Ukrainian consumers. So you can't talk about a correlation that proportional. You could say that just the average Ukrainian started buying more money in the form of wages and pensions. It's about who's going to answer. Oh, will prices fall on these goods? Well, my dear friend, please tell me if there is a rate of 380 percent in some meat - group positions. No one's ever paid this bet before because they paid zero for the SEZs and the TPRs. Now we've started the Contrabanda Stop program, and it's working, and it's impossible legally, economically meaninglessly, to import such products legally from 380 percent tax. We say, let's put 20 percent, 30 percent, let's put 0.6 euros per kilogram on meat to match the value of the internal manufacturer and give it a little bit more to the internal manufacturer. And then it'll go. Once again, we need more than 430,000 annual consumption per meat group. And that means that we only have 53 percent of the consumption rate. We have to give you the standard you calculated in the minimum of living, right? Who Answers? A government that is politically accountable to the Supreme Council answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u175	Thank you, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u176	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u177	Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vaszczuk Katerina Timofijn. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u178	Catherine Vaschuk, People’s Party Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, at its meeting, reviewed the law that was passed in exchange for the bills previously passed. This bill, actually. multi-strengthening, sophisticated. Worked at round tables, consulted with most of the MPs and factions in the Supreme Council, and that's why it's today essentially, or, you could say, completely different from what was given at the beginning. Initially, we had a bill that envisioned a substantial reduction in import duties, an average of 70 - 90 percent for all foods, that is, for a group of goods of 1.24. After the people's deputies intervened, we worked out this bill, and we changed positions significantly. What it looks like today is that the 02 product group is meat and food products -- we rule out all sub-products, inequitable meat, leaving it at the rates of the minimum import duty, which have been so far, so we don't make the premium rates. A combined scheme was proposed only for the following product groups: carcases, carcases, carcases, and quarters, beef, and pork. But 10 percent, but not less than 600 euros per tonne. This is to compensate for the cost of production in the internal market. Chickens: only whole chickens, but not less than 400 euros per tonne That is, they will not be imported for cheap crumbs, various innocuous co-products, and chicken ostriches. It's all kept high enough. Milk and milk products, birds' eggs, natural honey, food products of animal origin -- we left the rates of import duty at the same level as they were. The vegetables, the plants, the roots, the food roots -- we left behind all the import duty rates that were, except for those groups of vegetables that allowed for the winter period, when we lacked them, green ones, to only transport from December 30 to April 1st at slightly lower rates. Edible fruits and nuts. There are bets on those exotic fruits that are not cultivated in Ukraine and bets are significantly reduced. It's a group of grain crops. The rate of the import duty is left at a fairly high level at the same level as it was. Boroshnomelite, large - scale products. The level of import duty rates, the consolidation of the tariff position, corresponds to those established in 2002. Seeds and fruits of oil crops It's the same year 2001. The fats of animal and plant origin. Apart from the fats that are not produced in Ukraine, there is palm oil and other oil that is not produced in Ukraine. For sugar and sugar confectionery, we also leave the bets that were installed. April 2001. I mean, we've actually only switched to some groups of goods that are not enough in Ukraine to feed the market and to make goods available to our consumers. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that we have comments from meat-processing enterprises about two positions, and we can count them too. This is not only 30 percent for sausages but also for meat to be written, but not less than 600 euros.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, don't be abusing yourself. I can't say no to a woman. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u180	And on the 0208,908,000 group, we also add to the word "others" and the skins of pigs, so we settle all the questions that meat-processing companies asked. The faction of the People’s Party also suggests that the law be supplemented by the following change. The request to make changes to the budget so that the collection of customs tariffs that will come to the State can be attributed to the aid of our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u181	Sign up for questions. Please, three minutes. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u182	Dear Catherine Grigory! Tell us how much State action has been taken to stop the smuggling of agricultural products, to import them into Ukraine. And how much do these measures contribute to the free trade in meat for agricultural producers who want to sell their products directly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u183	Thank you for asking. Indeed, it is vital that we stop smuggling today. But I don't think it's going to be a full measure here, of course it's a step towards stopping smuggling, but to a full extent it's the responsibility of all the relevant services. According to smuggling? As the Customs Code stated today, smuggling was cheaper and cheaper, and this is low quality; it's chicken ostrich, it's a variety of embellishment, it's cropping. And the meat of high - quality smuggling was scarce. Today, we do not reduce the rate, we close the border, and we open the meat in a high - quality way, not only by preventing smuggling from moving, but by making sure that people eat quality foods. If meat is imported, it should be meat, not meat, which no one needs in Europe. And I think that's also a step towards improving the quality of our consumption, and secondly, the availability of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u184	Victor Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u186	Please, Olga Hinzburg's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear Catherine Timothy, the thing is, we're not alone. You're saying that we've listened and that's it. The point is, people listen to us and think to themselves, ‘ Well, who will eat more of this meat? One hundred and forty - three pounds [43 kg] was eaten, and now 83 after our law he will eat. And they can't understand why we should be carrying flour? The seeds of oil, the grain, the meat? Well, why did you and I dissolve the colporteurs? Would you tell me, please? If we were to stand with you and worry, how many cows do we have in one farm, how many seeds do we have in another, how many seeds do we plant there? Well, what did we do about it? Can you tell me, who will eat more meat? To come to my district and say, tomorrow we are starting to eat more meat, you honourable voters. I can't understand it and I can't support it because I know it won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u188	A respected colleague, indeed, today, says: Who will eat meat more or less — the question is very rhetorical. And today I think it's the government's move to just put out the fire. In fact, today we need to focus on the support of the internal manufacturer. And would there be a cologne, or farmers today, with that price policy and government ratio, which was many years before the price paid by a peasant for his production. And to the price of what a peasant buys, because everything is growing there, no form of farming, believe me, in Ukraine can't stand it. Neither collective nor individual, i.e. it's half a measure that allows us to move into European structures somehow, but at the same time, at a processed tariff, we still put out positions that won't allow us to import flour, because it's not convenient that the rates of duty are high, the rates of duty are high, the milk rates are high. We have slightly reduced our production to one type of meat. Only, but not less than 600 euros per tonne. This allows you to drive, it will be not less than 15,16, 18 pounds per kilogram. And the peasant has no one more expensive today. That is, the support of the inside and the quality of the meat outside was levelled. For all the sub-products, for the gym, for everything else, we leave the old bets. So we're actually only changing bets by three positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u189	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed that we would have 15 minutes to discuss. So we have three more minutes. So we give the word to Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Then we'll call it a break. After the break, Mironenko will be the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u190	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, me, and our citizens of Ukraine. These are two documents. I'm showing consciously the scope of these documents. This is the first government that sent out the village's death in the first place, so to speak. And the second project the government sent a little bit less is the slow death of the village. Otherwise, I can't call these projects. Because market saturation is not only achieved by one way: by lowering tariffs. Obviously, there are other ways in which countries call themselves civilized. I think that the question of what we now have to vote on in the first and second reading is completely anti-national. Only in the first reading. Sergey Anatolyovich, you've been sitting in this room, and you've defiantly protested always against accepting such serious documents in the first reading. Today we are saying, thank God that Catherine Timothy will report that their committee has considered something. And ours wasn't. And I couldn't make my own amendments, including the thoughts people are giving today when they write, stop destroying the village, because everyone knows that it's better to create conditions for their farmers, for their collective farms, where it's supposed that we can grow the same bird today for 60 days of everything, and we're talking more about these customs tariffs. But give people the opportunity today, and they will cost you that meat. Did you sell them cars cheaper? You didn't sell them tractors cheaper. See what the neighboring countries are doing? You just bought a tractor, took 50 percent of everything from you, and you didn't do it here. So let's be complex, I call on the Ministry of Economics to take a comprehensive approach to this issue, to spend, to subsidies. You want to go today and arrange for everyone in Europe to see that Ukraine joins the WTO. I'm asking you, less than 20 percent and less than 1,000, Katerina Timofievna, less than 1,000 euros can't go down, divide 1,000 per kilogram, that's one euro. We set such requirements for them, such prices. This is the first time. It's different. For what it's worth, corn, you're offering to bring barley in here, look, and look at the bet. Katerina Timofievna I'm talking about a government project, a government project. So let's take the first reading, I'll vote for it. But I announce to the presiding that if there's any attempt at putting in general, I'm going to block the rostrum, as I've done before, so as not to let the Ukrainian village be destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-21-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Once again, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The opening of the evening session at 4 p.m.
