ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:56]] There are 413 National Deputies registered in the Hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, this is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Ivanov Sergio Anatoliyovich and Lubek Omeljana Viktorovich. Let's welcome them, we want all kinds of goodies. Dear colleagues, the announcement please be heard. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and paragraphs 4.2.1, 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will inform you of the presence of Istvan Haydosh as a member of the Socialist Party. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the registration of a new parliamentary group of industrialists and entrepreneurs of the “will of the people” made up of 14 national deputies. To represent the group of authorized national deputies of Ukraine - Long Stanislav Alexiyyovich, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, Gureyev Vasil Mikolayovich, Kouzmuk Alexander Ivanovich and Veretennikov Viktor Alexandrovich. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like the National Deputies to sign up, and I'd like to announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please indicate the list of registered national deputies. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir BONDARENKA is under the prime minister's responsibility to finance housing programmes for the Chernobylites. Jury KARMAZIN under the responsibility of the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the General Audit Authority, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for the abuse of office and non-target use by officials and the Head of the State Enterprise, the “Illian Maritime Trade Port” budget and portions of the income of the enterprise, the violation of the constitutional rights of members of the labour force, the lifting of the Ministry of Transport’s orders to establish the State Association “Ukrmorprom”. Vladimir ZUBANOV to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service, Prosecutor General for the immediate cessation of the artificial bankruptcy of the open-ended Silur stock company of the city of Hartziska Donetsk. MICHELLE RED TO THE EXERCISE DUTY OF THE Prime Minister, the head of the Pension Fund’s government, to settle the conflict with the payment of pension benefits by small business entities — single taxpayers. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Herson Regional Council of the People's Deputies on the problems of the completion of the reconstruction of the Berislav Pedagogical School in the Hersson region. Group of National Deputies to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs on Social Justice and Ending the Dispension of Pension Pensioners of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Internal Forces of Other Military Forms and Law Enforcement Authorities, taking into account the monthly allowance for uninterrupted service. [[KARMAZIN, KARMAZI, KARMAZI]] Jury CARMAZINA to the acting prime minister, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the use of urgent measures to ensure the interests of the State and foreign investors through the implementation of the 18th project of the construction of the port of Junior and the constitutional right of the company Transsinvesservis to enter into entrepreneurial activities. VALLERY OF THE LEBEDIEV to the Cabinet of Ministers on violations of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens because of the failure to comply with the rules of law in force by the authorities in the exercise of their functions in the Ukrainian language. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee on the Budget for the Disasters of Health, Education and Cultures in the Brezniv, Sarnen, and Kostopil areas of the Plains region in connection with insufficient funding. MIKOLI PAVLEKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Tax Administration, on the existence of signs of tax evasion in large - scale structural units and some of the enterprises of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of State Tax Administration to verify the reliability of tax non-payment information to a number of companies in the Lviv region in 2002-2004. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General on the violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the abuse of office by officials of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast, Prosecutor's Office of the Dnipropetrov region in the privatization of the Open Shareholder Association “Dnipropetrova Central Market”. [[SCHOOL, BAUER, WEAKNESS, BARTKIEV]] Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney General for the conduct of a repeat and objective investigation into a criminal case based on the death of 16 - year - old Mariana Rudkovic, who was later adopted as a member of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney General on the legality of the reform of the Ministry of Health. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General on the verification of the facts given in the publication “The Quarter Seal on the Background of the “Harves Treaties” by the People’s Army newspaper of January 11, 2005. Jurya LUCENKA to the Attorney-General on financial abuse by the management of the Open Shareholders Association “Kretelekom”. Roman TWAČA to the Attorney General for the protection of the constitutional rights of the victim of Hudzowski in a criminal case. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney-General on the legality of the privatization of society's property with a limited liability “Dniprodjyńskmiskstvolo”. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General on violations by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukrainian law. Ms Shevchuk to the Attorney General about the situation surrounding the bankruptcy case of the Open Shareholder Society of the Herson Cotton Combine. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Attorney General on the illegal actions of Sevastopol’s law enforcement authorities to block the activities of Sevastopol’s fish conservatory. To the Attorney General, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for the cessation of the provocative campaign with political motives organized by criminal structures under the cover of the prosecutor’s office and for the involvement of the former prosecutor of the Kirovograd district against the Taras Shevchenk High School in Kirovograd. Stephen HMARI to the Attorney General on the reasons for the systematic failure of members of the Chernobyl City Police Department to carry out their official duties and to investigate objectively and comprehensively the acts of vandalism on the grave of the outstanding Ukrainian writer Michael Cotsubinsky in Chernigov. Groups of national deputies to the Attorney General on the registration of cancer drugs by the National Pharmaceutical Center of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. [[Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on,]] MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the violation of the law, the inaction of internal affairs and the damage to the local community of the city of Gordny Chernigiv district. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the Attorney-General on the restoration of the legality of the labour force of the State Enterprise Donetskwogil concerning the lease of the entire property complex. Gregory OMELČENKA to the Attorney-General on the use of budgetary funds for the financing of the pre-election campaign of Viktor Yanukovič through the defence of the firm “Ukretospecexport”, “Ukroboranservis”, “Ukremash”, “Lema” of the city of Kharkiv and “Credo-Klasik” of Kiev. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Minister for Transport and Communications, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service for the use of credit costs of $700 million, received by two tranches by the Government Railway Administration of Ukraine under the agreement of October 18, 2004. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the violation of the Labour Code by the Velikoseverin Rural Council. VICTOR OF DIVORCE TO THE Minister of Education and Science regarding the award of a computer class to the Schools of Health and Tetyr. Lilia GREGOROVIĆ to the Minister for Education, the Attorney General, for the immoral conduct of the director of Andrijašev’s school in the district of Suma, for the abuse of duty and criminal activity by the Romanian District Education Department. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE MINISTRY OF SURPRISED STUDIES ON THE BUILDING OF THE GOVERNMENTAL SCHOOL IN LUK OF THE ZHITOmir district of the JITOmir Region at the expense of the Chernobyl Foundation. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Minister of Defence on the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons. Anatolya OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Justice for the enforcement of court decisions to protect the interests of citizens with regard to the problems of the restoration of the rights of land users. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the executive responsibility of the First Deputy Minister of Finance for an unsatisfactory response to a parliamentary appeal regarding the making of a one - time pension payment in the past tense for the execution of judicial decisions. Mr. ZUBANOVA to the head of the Committee on Budget Questions regarding the return to the budget of government funds obtained under the government guarantee. Vladimir BONDARENKA to serve as Head of State for Privatization of Houses in Desert Water and Conchi Zaspa. Jurya ARTEMENKA to the Director of the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice for the enforcement of the decisions of Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk and Mikolai oblast on the recovery of the debt by the National Atomic Energy Company to the Open Shareholders Association Erko+Zaporozhye. Igora ŠURMI to the Acting Prime Minister, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the legality of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health’s order number 6k from 12.01.2005 on the approval and entry into force of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health’s official registration. U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine from JOLJAK, STAŠA, KOSIVA, BONDARENKA for illegal alienation of state property in favour of the ZAT airline Aeroworld in Borispol Airport. Vladimir YAVORIYSKO to the Attorney General on the shadow privatization and the attempt to lift the Central Blue Market, which is strongly opposed by tens of thousands of inhabitants of the surrounding microregions of Kiev. Thus, honourable colleagues, 42 parliamentary inquiries were made. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 17, communists - 7, Ukraine - 3, SDPU - 2, Ukraine - 2, Ukraine - 2, Ukraine - Labour - 1, National Agrarian Party - 1, SPU - 4, Timoshenko - 3, NDP, industrial and entrepreneurial - 2. That's 42. Dear colleagues! Let me inform you about the results of the High Council's plenary session on January 20, 2005. Thirty-five issues of the agenda were discussed: 23 bills, 13 draft regulations. As a result of their consideration, 7 laws were passed, 6 bills were adopted in the first reading, 2 bills were submitted for redrafting, 3 bills were rejected, one bill was withdrawn, five were postponed, 12 were passed. Let's move on to speeches, statements, messages from Ukrainian national deputies. On the board, please. Vojsz, faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine. Prepare Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to today's agenda, which raises a number of important issues in the agenda and, above all, to the issue of " amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2005 ". [[on the recalculation of pensions of military pensioners]] I would like special attention to your emphasis on this law. Indeed, we have just adopted the budget and are making changes to it. Why the rush? This is necessary because the Budget Act 2005 introduced 39 articles that led to the violation of the Military Pensions Act today. As a result, the good law that we passed with you in June 2004 eliminated the imbalance in the pension security of the soldiers who had been dismissed in the past years and the pension security of the soldiers who are now retiring. And this imbalance is huge, and it's leading to senior officers fired earlier today getting less than the flag fired today. This imbalance has been tried to eliminate by the Act. And we have clearly defined how, how, what will be the mechanism to address this imbalance. However, article 39, which appeared in the second, third reading of the Budget Act, in the Budget Act 2005. She was the one who brought the issue up. I ask you not to forget, for other matters, that this is the most important issue today. And it needs to be considered urgent for us. Because today military pensioners are making complaints, appeals, they are coming to the military today, where they are already counting on a completely different pension. Therefore, dear colleagues, it is this very law that we must consider and adopt on first reading today. And another Act, which is being considered today, is also for the inclusion in the agenda of the budget. It is a zero import duty law for certain goods. I would say that, just the exact opposite of that, there is today what was envisaged in the 2005 budget for the benefits for our chocolate kings, so today they want to take it all down quietly. I don't think we should do that. We all know who the chocolate rabbit is and who wants to change the situation today. Let us consider this normally, in a normal manner, when we consider amending the Budget Act in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u3	Yes. Anisimim gives the right to speak to Michael Rodion. Prepare Puzakov instead of Novik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u4	Rodionov, Communist faction. I have been asked by the distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished radio audiences, to address the members of the anti-crisis committee of the Bolshevik plant in Kiev, in order to speak about their problems and to name some officials and people's deputies, in their opinion, involved in these issues. The problem is that the territory of the Bolshevik factory has become a stumbling block, an easy piece. And in order to take over some of the entrepreneurial businesses, it is said, that everything is done to make sure that the plant is gone. The primacy here, however strange, belongs to our State Property Fund. Mr. Chečetov publishes, appoints a director for an enterprise that is not privatized, where it is entered into a contract to privatize the enterprise. And his position indicates that if he is in person, he will be bankrupt. But what is more, this fund does not depend on what people are changing, and politics remains. In 1997-2000, the enterprise had already been excluded from non-privatization. At the time, the Fund was chaired by the well-respected national deputy of Ehanurov Yuri Ivanovich. And by looking for an effective investor, big events have begun at the plant. This is the result of these events: over the course of three years, 4,000 people were dismissed, the store was sold, the premises were sold, the hotel, the stadium, and the salaries increased to 11 months. As a result, the Supreme Council, you remember, was forced to re-enter the list of non-privatized persons. But at the end of this year, the People's Deputy Rudenko, a faction of the Social Democratic Party, proposes to be removed from the non-privatized. And so it is, the tax inspection puts an arrest on the property. Moreover, the Agrarian Party's interest was suddenly discovered, and they call the name of the national MP, Vaschuk Ekaterina, who also has some interest. On my naive question, I'm saying how it could be, because there's no sowing or smelling. They said, "Michael Kuzmich, you are in error. The biggest crop is trying to be removed on asphalted grounds." And the whole point of this, they say, is to sell unique equipment at a price.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u5	Vladimir Puzakov has a word for Novak, a faction of Communists. Boris Ilchi Oliynik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In the last month, our people have become accustomed to living in sensational mode, where they provide almost every day with a few contributions. In the Kirovograd region, there is already a full replacement of personnel, although new ones have not yet come to power. The main axis on which the orange revolution in the area was held decided that all leaders of the higher or middle echelon of power in an area that was neither supported nor voted for by Yashchenk should go first. Because they see that they have no moral right to work and solve problems in the area. In large numbers, there should be a very serious rotation of personnel in the area, in a sense, the people in the capital who are aware of the position in the area in which the ministry is going to work. But people are very concerned about such actions and have asked us to remind the reformers in their paws that their actions in the 99th have not yet been forgotten when they acted in the same way against those who did not support Kuchma and, in particular, dealt with the red belt of Kirovgrad, with their countrymen. But people also saw the other side of the medal. January 8 is a day that has become one of the most memorable days of liberation from the fascist invaders. This day is a bright memory of soldiers who, at the cost of their lives, protected the city from the enemy, showed high patriotism and love for the land of their homeland. And the wines of many of them are carved on ceilings and granite tablets of memorial and fortress oxen. On that day thousands of townspeople, veterans, intelligence of the city, schoolchildren came here to bow their heads to the memory of the dead. But unfortunately, there were no oranges among those present at the memorial cemetery who, beating themselves in the chest, appear to be the great patriots of the people. The doctor of a city hospital said: “The money is not given here and the wallets are not handed out. As new reformers, you are really living up to the expectations of the people. People have seen and will probably see more the difference and too great the difference between words and actions. And, as the people say, it's not even tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u7	Boris Ilchi Oliynik please invite you to prepare Anatoly Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Finally, on January 1, 2003, a state television company, Culture, appeared on Ukrainian air as a full legal person. About the time allocated by Naztelelec company for the broadcast of culture from 11 to 12 a.m. and the volume of speech, it was only 1 hour, to some extent, that even humiliated the idea. The appeal of the channel staff to the President of Ukraine and to the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco did not lead to a change in the situation. Moreover, in view of the fact that the Television and Radio Broadcasting Board has given priority to the second national channel of UT-2 to the commercial television company "1+1", not the state television company "Culture". Since October 11, the channel "Culture" has been transferred to the 3rd hour of the night of the First National Channel. I understand that our culture will light up the darkness. But respectable colleagues, well, in the middle of the night only those who don't sleep watch. In November last year, DTRK "Culture" was licensed to speak on a satellite channel of 24 hours per day. Beautiful. The designated satellite covers the territory of all Europe, Russia, Ural and the Middle East, with the prospect of an exit to America and Canada. This multifaceted work requires adequate funding and a solution to many organizational problems. The first is the placement of workers and technical equipment. This problem could be solved by transferring from the studio balance to the "Culture" DTR, a separate film processing facility that has not been used for more than 10 years. The equipment is dismantled and written off in connection with its final weariness. So it's appropriate to reorganize it from a state-owned enterprise into a creative unit. This would allow for the employment of technical and creative studio workers who today do not receive wages and prevent further theft of state property. Well, respectable colleagues, holidays, and still, culture needs to be taken care of. You're many years old!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u9	Anatoly Sergiyovich Matvienko, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u10	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I was forced to take the floor by the President of Ukraine yesterday with a cynical attempt to swear as judges of the Constitutional Court of Lords Stryzak and Kovalenko. I don't want to characterize either Mr. Stinger or Kovalenko, let it be on his conscience if he still has it, Mr. Kuchma. But the action that was shown to us yesterday cannot be without our attention and proper response. The thing is, the deputies really didn't have a way out yesterday. And not exactly the right way to block the rostrum. And I want to apologize to all the MPs and the TV set. But what should be done in this situation when there are very few answers to questions on the formal side of swearing? For example, the legitimacy of the judges ’ decision, the meeting of judges regarding Stirzak’s candidature. The second is Mr. Kovalenko's work biography, which appears to have virtually no practice -- and immediately in the Constitutional Court. Third: breach of procedure, order of countersignature. You know, this document should be seen by the Prime Minister, not by the acting minister, and by the minister of justice, not by the acting minister. I would like to remind you that the number eight decree was the release of the Prime Minister from office. The number nine by Presidential Decree resigned, and the number 16 was merely the Covalenka Order. In this way, the procedure was grossly violated. No one has an answer to the question of whether these judges were appointed under article 127 of the Constitution on incompatibility. And there are many such problems. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm thinking about getting the Supreme Council out of the way and not going on with cynicism, and now again, at 12 o'clock, I'm asking you personally. A bill has been handed down to all deputies following my initiative: the Supreme Council's decree to order the formation of an oath on the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a judge of the Constitutional Court. This is Order 6533. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put her on the agenda, and we will vote on this decision. And it will remove all the contradictions that have arisen and may arise today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u11	I'll respond immediately, with your permission, and I'll say so. Dear colleagues, what is stipulated in the decree, what we have foreseen, and you want to accept now: offer the Supreme Council a verdict for future constitutional judges. We'll work on the Rules, according to procedure. Yes, please, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction. Anatoly Sergiyovich, there's a procedure. What you have proposed is stated in the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u12	Please pass the word Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u13	Let the Regulatory Committee consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u14	Please pass the word Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u15	Please, Boyka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! I went out to this rostrum very rarely, but I was outraged by yesterday's vote on the commodity import tax law. I want to tell you a story about how I got here. I never tried to be. become a national deputy. Basically, I've been talked into it. But what I see here offends me to the depths of my soul. Even by the faction where I am an associate member. Yesterday we decide to vote on the faction, the financial and industrial team gives “no vote” and as a result of “flight”. When I go to the faction "Our Ukraine" and say, "This is a disgrace when we destroy Ukrainian land, we extract minerals, we load them for export, and the metals stand without raw materials!" Look at the state of Krivbass today! Billions of money are being shipped abroad! How do we feel about the future generation of Ukraine? I understand one thing very well that is here in the Supreme Council, when you see how the laws are done and what is done is not power for the people, but the people for that power to serve them. Listen up! Remember, dear People's Deputies! I am sure that common sense will prevail, and we will indeed begin to work for the people of Ukraine. We live in one of Europe's richest countries, and when I'm told that I'm some kind of magnet. I'm sorry, please, I'm ready to take off my integrity today, no question if I've done something, but I'm once again showing my work what a rich state is. After me, I have eighty thousand working groups that serve, serve, work, and live normally. You just look at how many thieves in this country. Including the criminal law that we adopted here in the Hall on the privatization of Krudprom. I wrote to both the President and the Government that this led to the creation of monopolism, which would agree and beat. You'll think, in December, four factories that have no access to raw materials lost 170,000 tons of iron. What damage to the State's budget? You see the wages that work on these mines. I am sure that we will return to this law at the next session and accept it for the benefit of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u17	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Volinka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! As long as we're on the air, the situation in the village is critical. The weather today is clearly not conducive to farmers. Worse yet, authorities have come into contact with the weather. But power is actually paralyzed today, and if it wasn't for peasant wisdom and patience, God knows what we'd be eating with you right now. There is an urgent need to form a government to take control of the situation in the countryside. I will not, of course, repeat the familiar things, but it is clear that we need to prepare for the difficulties of both the winter and the onset of weeds and the movement, and that the water deficit should be compensated by appropriate agroforestry. You need herbicides, which means you need a lot of money. There's a lot of feeding to do, and that's a lot of money again. Spring voltage is going to be incredible, which means we have to prepare the technique. Unfortunately, all this stuff goes on, you have to, you have to. Without the help of the state, without its patronage, the work of the village cannot be done. Socialists believe that the village’s problems should be the first concern of the new government. All our political battles aren't worth it. If we can't get the village out of that gulf that the old authorities threw in, out of the buckets of weather that threw the grain field into an unprecedented test today. In the meantime, there are signals that in some places disputes are already being prepared with wise masters, whom the old authorities have recruited for the elections. Let's act smart. We're not going to save the rich human potential of the village, we're going to put our heads on fire, we're not going to touch hosts like, for example, Ukrainian heroes Alexander Korostosov and Tetjana. of Kotelwa in Poltavska and dozens of their colleagues. Their knowledge and skills should serve as a way out of the crisis. Let us not fight with our foreheads, but let us build and build. Because the village is still torn apart by the land’s passions and poverty that the authorities organized. And we're almost connecting the illustration here. The village's been blown up, and we're also setting up this explosives. Once again, the village is in the lenses and the weather is up. Reforms. Let's not add new craftsmanship, let's do specific work, let's help the farmer get to where he's been forever in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u19	Mikhail Volintz, please. Yes. Mikhail Volintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u20	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u21	Please, Oleg Belarus. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u22	Respectable national MPs, respected citizens. Oleg Belarus, Fatherland Party, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Today, for the third time, the agenda of the Supreme Council includes the adoption of an oath by newly appointed judges of the Constitutional Court, Stryzak Zakarpatja and Kovalenko, the President's Administration. Thirdly, we are talking about gross violations of the legal procedures for the appointment of these judges to the Constitutional Court. The very fact that these judges were appointed in the last days of the meetings of the Supreme Council is a legal absurdity. Under the current conditions, only the newly elected President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, has the right to appoint judges of the Constitutional Court. The former President has lost that right and must refrain from forceful action and threats to the Supreme Council, as he did yesterday at the Supreme Council reception. In world practice, in the last 100 days, the leaders of democratic powers have not made any higher appointments. They are required to avoid making the work and decision-making of the new President more difficult. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko suggests that we remove this issue from the agenda today because we should not put the former, yet acting President in a very awkward position, in order to invite him here because it is a matter of principle for us, and we will not allow a forceful process of taking an oath from these so-called newly appointed judges. We'll block the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u23	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u24	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I want to break the subject of betrayal in our society, but which is not new in human history. Consider just one Bible example of Judas, the most beloved disciple of Christ, from whom the teacher received the last kiss in his earthly life, even the saints are mistaken. An interesting bouquet of traitors emerged after an illegal ban on the activities of the CPD in August 1991. The time has come to classify them by certain signs. The first part and most of the former members of the CPD have gone into political nonexistence and have been called the former ones in the people. The second part was also one of them who openly claimed their so-called "vol." position, that is, the deliberate entry into the KPRS to destroy it from the inside. You can't even call them Jews, they're outright enemies who have been able to sneak and sneak into the CPDs. The third part, those who betrayed Marxism Leninism on a fundamental basis, withdrew from it, and declared their further ideal and theoretical advancement by creating or joining other political parties. It would be appropriate to refer to such ones, not as former members of the CPD, but as the heights of the CPD from the history of Jewish relations that went to Christianity and became more violent enemies and persecutors of their former unbelievers. But among the last are hidden vortexes, which, at a time in history, betrayed the CPRS, as if for critical and imaginative reasons, as if to improve its theory. Such ones have moved forward to Europeanism, ready to criticize and improve not only Marx and Engels, Lenin, Stalin, and the CPD, but even Jesus Christ. It is from this point of view that the most outstanding growths from communism are both the first President of an independent Ukraine with its modern membership of the U.S.S.A., and the second, as if it were a non-party president, the father of the capitalist reforms in Ukraine. This cohort can be added to the leader of the Socinternov Party in Ukraine, along with his outstanding political Sancho Pansa, a self-loving journalist, from the tip of a gold pen that is almost daily absorbed by anti-communist poison -- ricin, biological weapons, where dioxin is taken together. All vortexes from the KPRS one Communist peace lubricate. History testifies to those who once betrayed become the most angry enemies of those with whom they were near and betrayed. So I'm going to my fellow thinkers and one-partyers, and I'm going, "Let's go, brothers! Let us cleanse ourselves of the entrails, and then a festival will come upon our street!".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u25	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. The last speaker. Then, because of his dissatisfaction with the answer, Mikhail Vasilovich Pobeko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to certain symbolic things that during the last period of the electoral company were, along with us, with Ukraine, and this is that the final dot, and the end of the electoral company at the time coincides with January 22, the day when the Ukrainian People's Republic, the Western Ukrainian People's Republic, when the citizens of Western and Eastern Ukraine decided to unite into one state and say that the only great Ukraine is that they will never be separated. So it happened that during the election campaign, the authorities, represented by the highest officials, were actually directly and openly building an electoral company on the idea of the split of Ukraine. And the opposite has happened: the society of different regions has united and has not allowed this division, and the fact that the electoral company ends at times with an act of assembly or an act of wickedness is the highest confirmation that no one can play on the feelings of religious, linguistic citizens of Ukraine, and no one will succeed in playing with the idea of separatism, federalism, or other dangerous things in the country of things. The other one. I would like to address the Chinese and the Ukrainian citizens who will be in Kiev from 22 to 23 January and ask them, as we have promised, for the national public inauguration of Viktor Yushchenko and which will take place on the Maidan of Independence. You, at 12 o’clock on the Main of Independence, can watch the broadcast of the oath that will take place in the Supreme Council and at 1:30 a.m. listen to Victor Yushchenk. And I think it's also symbolic that today the dialogue of power with society should be not through the cabinets or through the closed walls of the Cabinet of Ministers, as it was recently when journalists were kicked out of government, but in Maidan, where every citizen can come and listen to his president. And finally, I'm glad that Viktor Janukovic made a statement that he would work and prepare for parliamentary elections as a representative of the parliamentary opposition. This is a principle and a courageous position. I would like to advise him that when he begins to write a plan of his opposition activity, he will no longer invite Swiss or Russian employees to talk about how to put Satan’s stamp on Yashchenka, but he will turn to Ukrainian experts who have experienced opposition. And we're willing, on a free basis, to tell him what the parliamentary opposition is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u27	Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! On January 20th, and today, on the channel "Inter" was sounded as if I, as well as the National Deputy of Ukraine Karmazin and Hubski, were taking steps to protect the head of the Kozin Rural Council of the Kyiv Region from being responsible for the embezzlement of land. In my responsibility, I firmly want to state that I have never done anything like this. On the Kozinkow Council I was only 18 January this year and only 5 minutes to pay the land tax in the amount of 13 bracelets, which has been used since 1995 in the area in the garden company." And she was assigned to my wife's company, who worked as an assistant consultant to the National Deputy. Thus, released into the television channel "Inter" Pascal touches my honour and dignity and manifests nothing but slander. So I demand that the direction of the named TV channel be immediately officially corrected and apologized to me for the insult. In addition, those guilty of issuing an unverified announcement via a television channel are called to disciplinary responsibility. Otherwise, I leave the right to take legal action to compensate for the moral damage I have suffered and so forth. As for the embalming of the land on the territory of the Cosinian Rural Council, I learned that the facts had taken place. This is done not only by the adjacent areas of the Dniper River but by the forests that are cut off by hundreds of hectares, but by the plantations many stories are collected, and no one bears criminal responsibility. On the contrary, the management of the Kyiv district government and some law enforcement officials contributed. In the recent period alone, some measures have been taken by the Attorney General’s Office to bring an end to the lawlessness of individual law enforcement agencies regarding the persecution of those who have opposed lawlessness, even though the blame for demarcating the land has not been brought to justice. On the basis of this statement, please consider the application as a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and send it in due course to address the issue of the criminalization of persons guilty of embezzlement and deforestation in the territory of the Cosin Rural Council and those who opposed the illegality permitted by the issues mentioned above. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. [[Well, you just did. Are you going to speak in connection with the dissatisfaction of the answer each day? No, it's not. Well, you were just performing. You can't perform twice. Please! Please!]] With Vashtuk's motives, please. [[Yuri Petrovich, please don't abuse me! Well, please, that's it! You're going to be in the "Victim" right now. I'm not violating your right. On the contrary, you even use it very often.]] Please, Vashtuk's motive microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u30	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine A recent spokesman for the Communist faction said that our faction, and I myself, have an interest in the Bilshik factory. In fact, like all the national MPs, our faction has strongly opposed the privatization of this company, and I have been approached by the leaders of this company. We've made a tough decision by the faction: to take a firm stand against privatization. This can be checked by our vote in this room. And that's where our interest in this factory is now over. If you have such a request, we've really studied the question of the Bilshik factory and let's report it in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I'm still required to make one announcement. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, François Romanović, from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] A draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Preventive Policy is being announced for consideration. Oh, one minute. Two factions. Dear colleagues, that's all! Two factions -- the Social Democratic Party and the "Ukraine Region" -- call for a half hour break. [[united]] But if you're willing to make a statement, please give me three minutes to announce your application. Dear colleagues, we do have that practice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Respectable compatriots! Dear fellow national MPs! Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party MP is making a formal statement to the new authorities regarding the cessation of a brutal political terror that has been extended unheard of against Ukrainian citizens for this. [[united]] So you agree, that's what I understand. ..that they voted or openly supported another candidate to the Presidents. Many of the facts of harassment, intimidation, and mistreatment have, unfortunately, been a sign of electoral campaign. In the revolutionary Maidan, there were talks about freedom of life for everyone, regardless of their political views, and there were persecutions and entrails outside Maidan. West Ukraine was particularly affected by this. In the Lviv Round of SDPU, reports of the actions of supporters of the ideas of "Our Ukraine" were constantly received. Many of the homes of party members, and too many secretaries of the rajkoms and towns, with the insistence of leaving the party, the disbanding of the party were of a massive systemic nature, and so we say, an organized nature. Those heads of state that are non - party but have taken an excellent position have also been affected by the fencing. To this day, the head of the Kamyanobus administration of Glovatska Stefanovna, the constituency of the deputies of Tajnibok and Oliynik, has been under intense pressure. We are particularly concerned about the threat of physical strife against the one party. Such a manifestation of a new democracy was faced by the secretaries of the City’s, Drodobic district organization, and Borislav city organization of SDPU. Likely, as democratic, society should also contribute to the following facts. The publication at the session of the Lviv District Council of the Coalition of the National Democratic Forces of Lviv with a call to the members of the SDPU(o) to leave the parties and disband the parties' factions in paradise and the townspeople, the mass assembly of signatures for calling off the councils of all levels elected by the SDPU(o) and others, in our view, unacceptable actions. But it turns out it was just the beginning. Today, political terror in Western Ukraine is unleashed with new power. We are far from making Mr. Yushchenk's presidential announcement a kind of signal to increase pressure. Yesterday at a press conference, the deputy head of the SDPU(O) authorized faction of the SDPU(O) in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Nestor Schufrich, said that the party was going into opposition. On the same day, the procurator of the city of Uzhgrad was authorized to search its public MP city of Uzhgrad. In Henprocurator’s office, a task force was formed, and Henprocuror Shokin’s deputy was responsible. Even after the inauguration, the new authorities began political repression in Ukraine. We've been looking forward to that, and we want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Statement and announcements are over, let's move on to issues. The draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Policy for the Prevention of Alcoholism in Ukraine is being followed. [[Registration number 3731]] Reported to the national deputy of Sietch. He's preparing for the Polish Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Over the past 13 years, the country has lost nearly 250,000 citizens. The birth rate fell to the lowest in Europe. The mortality of people of working age has increased. One of the main causes of this catastrophic situation is the alcoholization of the population by experts from the global health organization. The dynamics of this phenomenon are becoming more and more threatening. The rate of death from alcohol poisoning has nearly doubled in recent years and has exceeded the rate of death from transport accidents. According to the same experts, only 10% of the population’s health is determined by the level of medical development as science and by the state of health care and by the 50 - way of life. It must be admitted that alcoholics quickly absorbed it. They deliberately push young people to drink alcoholic beverages. By mass advertising young lifestyles, sex, and in advance, these companies try to strengthen young people’s awareness that alcohol is an integral part of modern style. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill proposes to determine the legal, organizational and economic conditions for the implementation of State policy to prevent alcoholism. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that no improper, hard-core action on the fight against alcoholism is foreseen, and it pays much attention to the prevention of alcoholism. Prevention itself can reduce the number of alcoholics in the near future. In particular, the project provides for preventive measures in schools. The emphasis is mainly on raising, disseminating information on alcohol harmfulness, protecting minors from the negative effects of production, and developing a common culture of personality that is designed to prepare young people for conscious choice of healthy, sober lifestyles. And I fully agree with the proposal of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood on the need for some of the provisions of the bill. And especially with regard to foresight of responsibility for public order and maintenance of security, as well as more effective measures aimed at preventing the use of a means of transport in an unsuspecting manner. These issues can be settled when the project is further developed and prepared for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u35	Are there questions, fellow believers? Please sign in. Please, 3 minutes, Stretovich. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Vladimir Stretovic, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, in support of your idea of the need to introduce such measures in Ukraine, because the nation is sung, and advertising, which is not a trade mark, suggests “soft” mention. Please tell me, will your bill lead to the money, to the changes that were made in 1085, when we eradicated vineyards all over the Crimea, when a famous researcher of the Golodrig vineyards and other harmful effects on society came out of life in Morgrach? Thank you. We support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, I would like to assure you once again, and I repeat that once again, I want to assure you that no wrong or harsh action on the fight against alcoholism is foreseen. And what was done at Gorbachev's reign has nothing to do with this bill. It only regulates the legal standards of use and prevention, and the prevention of those measures of conduct, a sober way of life. And that's why he doesn't predict any harshness.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u38	Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear reporter, I think you've done a good job raising the problem of government policy to prevent alcoholism. Of course, this could have been done earlier, as had been the case with the former authorities. In this regard, I have two questions for you. First. Don't you think that the program you're proposing can stay that way if you don't have the funds and the will to solve these fateful issues for the state. And the second. Who do you think should treat people who are prone to alcohol abuse, open hospitals or specialized institutions of the criminal enforcement system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. The first question I have to answer is that the law does not provide for the amount of financial expenditure from the state budget. And the implementation of this bill by executive power, I think it doesn't need any effort, and accordingly, I think it's going to be implemented. And not enough, I mean, I understand perfectly that other legislative acts, very many legislative acts that somehow regulate these problems. But such dispersion does not allow the full extent of the problem in Ukraine. And with regard to that question or specialized in general, I think specialization, as in health care, should be abolished. And treatment or alcoholism should be treated as well as any disease in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u41	Please, Kirilo Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u42	Kirilo Polishchuk, faction of regions, Christian-Democratic Party of Ukraine. Dear Mikilo Lukic, first of all, I would like to say that I support your legislative initiative and will vote in favour of the adoption of your law in the first reading. And the question is. Please tell me, are there similar laws in other countries aimed at combating alcoholism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Dear Cyril Ananiyovich, we have certainly studied the experience of other countries in the drafting of this bill, and I can tell you that in countries like Estonia, Moldova, many states of the United States have already passed these laws. In our neighbor Russia, there are regional laws that have been passed on this subject. And now it's being prepared for adoption by the appropriate legislative body of the Russian Federation of the state-wide law and it's going to be, I think, adopted successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u45	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u46	From the committee, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Health, Mikola Eframovich Policchuk Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to begin immediately with whether there are laws, laws in other countries? In other lands there is a sacred rule that no one ever drinks in the workplace if he drinks, so he will no longer work. The purpose of the bill, introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is: State regulation of the circulation in Ukraine of alcoholic beverages such as alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, wine, beer, including soft drinks, strength from 1.2 to 8.5 large units; prevention of alcoholism in Ukraine; protection of the health of the population against the harmful effects of alcohol and alcohol production; and the development of a healthy lifestyle. The bill proposes to define the basic principles and principles of State policy regarding the prevention of alcoholism in Ukraine. Restricted sales, consumption, promotion of alcoholic beverages, and measures to increase public awareness of the negative effects on human health of alcoholic beverages have been set. The legal responsibility of landowners for violating the law in the field has been increased!Oh, my God!It's an alcoholic product. In particular, the bill proposes to prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages in health and cultural institutions, educational and educational institutions, indoor sports facilities, elevators, taxis, public authorities, and local self - government agencies. In addition, the sale of alcoholic beverages, wine, and beer to persons under 18 years of age is prohibited in educational, cultural, health, hands, elbows, lahars, kiosks, and pavilions, in wholesale food markets, in places of mass concentration. The retail trade in alcoholic beverages with more than 8.5 percent of the units in volume is allowed only after 10 p.m. and 11 a.m. At the same time, organizations that sell alcoholic beverages with greater strength are bound to have commercial premises equipped with safes, alarms, cashiers, and so forth. After reviewing the bill, the committee notes that many of its provisions regarding terminology, restrictions on sales, use, financial provision of educational activities, monitoring of the law on advertising are not in line with the laws that have already been adopted today. In considering this bill, the committee felt that it needed to be corrected for further work, but given that many of the provisions had already been made after the bill had been considered on the committee, we now recommend that the bill should be adopted in the first reading and further elaborated with the committee and the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u48	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, please state on the screen the name of the active alcohol fighters. Let's take 15 minutes. Please, Karmazin, follow him Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u49	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I heard a statement today by Mahajil Alexiyovich Potekka, who applied to Kozina. So, I want to say "Inter" to everyone who's behind the oligarchs, who's against the new, that's the head of the village council, who's been working for six months and then being persecuted for not giving up the 300-acre clans of land, a criminal case has been dropped for lack of crime. And so, dear oligarchs, if you're using the name Carmazin, think first. And for the time being, I advise those who own the Inter to think with their brains and prepare for a trial that you certainly lose, as you lose the property process on the Inter Channel, which is stolen from you and you don't belong. That's what I'm telling the owners of the Inter Channel. As far as this bill is concerned, I must describe it in terms of the law. At present, there is no special law that lays down the basic principles of State policy to prevent alcoholism. But you and I have decided to recommend parliamentary hearings on "Socio-economic problems of HIV-AIDS, drug abuse and alcoholism in Ukraine and how to solve them." On the basis of this document, the Ministry of Health issued an appropriate order. But these recommendations are completely unfulfilled in the state. That is why I will support the prescribed bill, which provides for restrictions on the circulation of alcoholic beverages and beverages. There's a ban on eating them in separate places, and there's a number of places where the advertising of alcoholic beverages, which is now very, very much concerned with our television channels, not with the quality of television, but with this. At the same time, I would like to make serious comments to this project. For example, article 11: "Incidents and procedures of compulsory treatment and forced hospitalization of persons with alcoholism are established by the Criminal Code of Ukraine." It's a quote. Please tell me, how can you understand that? In the country, there are treatment- and labor-related prophylaxis that have been treated for alcoholism, and you're offering to put the sick in jail right now! That's ridiculous! I suggest we remove clearly ridiculous things. And nonsense. This is Nestor Schufrich talking about what we have. We haven't had the power yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u50	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Yavorowski. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u51	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorovščina, Žovkovščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block Dear colleagues, the subject that we are discussing today, if we are not to deceive, is for a normal person who can drink a drink at baptisms, at weddings, or at memorials, or for a person who can drink a glass of vodka on a good occasion. The topic that we're discussing is the subject of some kind of, you know, good-natured humor. Not anymore. As one jester once said, self-inflicted is the guerrilla movement of alcoholics. Obviously, somewhere in this key you could talk about, let's say, by paying attention when the President came to visit us yesterday and drank the water very greedily, you could joke about it, because, well, nowhere in the world where the church works, where there's high morals, talk about some specialty shop, talk about certain prohibitions. Well, if you'll excuse me, well, it's kind of a feudal absolutely thing, a feudal approach. But don't catch me by word of mouth, I understand very well how much the same drink we're talking about today, which can be talked about with humor, how much it has brought about some tragedy, let's say in the environment, somewhere and in the further ways of my family, and many people. I want to mention, say, Smyrnov's genius physics, Lviv Smyrnov, a computerist who worked the first computers along with Mouseky, who died, in fact, from alcohol. Or perhaps a brilliant Ukrainian writer, Grigor Tobacco, who is a brilliant proseic. We know the extent of this disaster, but to what do I lead? We're offered a bill, and I want to remind you in the 85th year, there was a brilliant anecdote when Gorbachev returned from Crimea to visit his mother at the station. And Mom says to him, "You're Misha, you're changing the country, but why did you go against the people? Why, are you forbidding alcohol?" He shakes his head and says, " Yes, Mother, I'll come to Moscow, I'll get the Apparatus and I'll figure it out." And my mom says, "You see, you've already figured out your machine." Because I say again, I'm offended by the drafters that they've completely ignored our national product alone. There's not a word. And if you put your hand on your heart, it's a ridiculous bill. You see, where do they forbid them to drink? At cultural institutions. And who drinks in cultural institutions? In transport, airplanes are no longer allowed to drink on children’s playgrounds. And if I walk him home with Joulinsky tonight and we drink two grams a night on the playground at 3:00 p.m.! Can't you? Because of this, believe me, this law is imperfect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u52	Vladimir Aleksandrovich, the writers can do anything. Yes, please, Mironenko. After him, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u53	5 constituency, Crimea, Ukrainian Company faction, Mironenko. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable compatriots! Dear Adam Ivanovich! The moral focus and focus on the healing of the people laid down in the bill deserve support. I am personally grateful to the authors for their work in this regard, but the bill requires further elaboration for the following reasons. First, take into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Management, their only 8 comments. In particular, the Scientific and Expert Office points out that the proposal to prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages in the premises of local government authorities in general does not lead to anything, as this international practice has officially been established, from which we will not be able to move away. The furchets still suggest alcoholic beverages. Indeed, we must finally look at the adoption of the established, many established rules in this bill. However, the bill itself is very useful, and all these 8 comments can be taken into account by the authors. I would only like to express my doubts on this matter. The bill is not that, or even to a small extent, I fear, it will not work as many laws do not work. Not the bill, the law. Like a lot of laws. Let me give you just two clear examples. First example. 2000 The Government of Yushchenko has suspended the laws already adopted concerning very many categories of the population. They are pensioners, veterans, participants in the Great Homeland War, teachers, doctors and so on. Why? Because the interests of the oligarchs were first placed, because their interests could not be affected, but they could be filled by Gosbudget without affecting the interests of the oligarchs, the great capitalists, who are in all the factions of capitalism, both in our Ukraine and in the Fatherland, and in the Centre, they cannot be affected. The next Kinaha Government. Has something changed? Nope. Still the same opposition, the same capitalist hens, still the same interests of oligarchs in the first place. The Yanukovich Government is also. Well, I wanted to give you a second example. When there were apparent violations of the law by the same orange revolutionary during the Orange Revolution, the revolutionaries themselves closed their eyes, violated the Constitution themselves, the laws. And now how will they appeal to the rule of law? For by their actions they have destroyed the rule of law in a State that they say they love. In addition, third. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u54	Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Over the past 10 years, there has been a demographic crisis in Ukraine. Over the years, some 5 million people have been lost. Thus, during the 5 months of last year, 173 thousand were born, 329,000 died, and the mortality of people of working age increased. One of the causes of increased mortality is alcohol abuse. The alcohol mortality rate has increased by 2.5 times that of 62 percent over the accident rate. In Ukraine, the use and control of low - quality beverages, low - quality beverages, and non - food alcohol are widely used to increase the risk of alcohol poisoning, have contributed to the rapid spread of alcohol cirrhosis in the liver. During the past year, about 3,000 people were killed by intoxicating alcohol. This is a terrible disaster for the state. But there is evidence that public policy is contributing to this. Let's think about how many times these walls have talked about banning the advertising of vodka products. What changed? Unless there's an increase in the number of running boards where different types of vodka are advertised, with pepper, Smirnowska, Nemirivska, Miyakow. And what a joy it was for people who came up with the "Yes" vodka. Nor does the state fear that there is an increase in alcohol mortality among young people each year. Young people are committing serious crimes in a state of drunkenness. In general, all tragedies and crimes are caused by people who are in a state of alcohol. For example, 942 drivers were detained on Ukraine’s roads during the period of time. Especially today is the need to revive the work of the drug service. At the national level, alcohol safety standards must be monitored and illegal alcohol production and sales must be banned in an unspecified place. Based on the foregoing, the conclusion is that there is now no objective information on alcohol and the consequences of its consumption. On the part of the State, it has no resistance to the spread of alcoholic beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u56	Please, Gunnery Eugene, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u57	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject is quite topical, and I would not like this bill to be reminded by its fate. The memorable Soviet times when such a campaign took place on a periodic basis were marked by drunkenness of the fights, which consistently won alcohol in full understanding and support of the alcoholics themselves. I am very afraid that such fate can also await the initiative under consideration today. Moreover, the quality of its design requires a better desire. Traditionally, I'm going to teach two things: nice and not very good. A nice and, at least, harmless part of this bill is that unlike Gorbachev and the League authors do not propose to cut out all vineyards and shut down all factories with centuries and more wine production traditions. Thank you for that. And the topic is really relevant, because the magnitude of the merger of our young people, our village and, unfortunately, our activities are becoming really dangerous. And there's something to be done about it. But let's not confuse the role of legislators and executives, and the authority in general that has to start with itself. During the decade of Kuchma’s reign, there was a paradox when the year’s festival was more than the days of the year. And all these holidays and dates are kind of celebrated, starting with birthdays. There is no need to be deluded when it comes to government agencies that are to be held in official cafes. Respectable, official kershets are champagne cups, not those orgyes and drunkards that are held in all authorities from the district to the presidential office that have covered the whole country. And in this respect, of course, this bill needs to be supported. At the same time, we must not overlook some of the shortcomings of this bill that have been made in many of my predecessors' comments and speeches. I mean, the law itself won't solve the problem. A whole system of action is needed and, above all, morals is needed. I'm funny when the Company's representatives talk about some kind of immorality in the orange revolution. But remember, were they drunk and what was the atmosphere of the day of the orange revolution when the militia had no work, and what were the sailors who were making the revolution called the 17th year? Given the topic's relevance, I'm going to propose that we adopt this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u58	Please, from Chevchuk's motives, a minute. Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, we're discussing a very serious question and it's not clear when individuals who, as always, are the first to sign up for its discussion are being translated into some frivolous subject. The question that is being discussed and the bill is extremely important. And you don't just have to talk about the medical aspects. When you look at the question, the history of Ukraine, Russia, and the Soviet Union, it's always where anti-alcoholic measures have been taken or, so-called, dry law, has always led to some change in society. You can think of NEP, you can think of industrialization, you can think of reconstruction. And on the contrary, where there is stagnation, where there is drunkenness. And if, honourable colleagues, from the faction "Our Ukraine" are criticizing this bill, they're simply against changes in Ukrainian society. We need to take this bill seriously, really, to correct it, to improve it, but not to take it as lightly as they are discussing it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u60	Yes. Please, Nigger. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to those who sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Alcoholism is a social disease. It now embraces our society, society sings, especially the village, and it takes radical measures to stop the degradation of society based on alcoholism. So I also support the position of those who take this problem seriously and this bill. Of course, he's imperfect, but there's a problem, you have to solve it in law, the law doesn't solve everything, but it's something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u62	No, it can't be like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u63	This is a step in the right direction. I'm here to uphold this law. I'm a fan of using it, not using it to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u64	There is a decree of inadmissibility. The inadmissibility order, please, one minute Tsushko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Our committee doesn't mind, I'm reporting from the committee, not against the adoption of legislation to combat alcoholism, against tobacco. But we are the committee responsible for the income part of the budget, and it has recently been realized that we are starting to combat this production with humane objectives. And I want to remind you that we often make jokes, laugh that we're looking at excises here and so on. But thanks to you and our committee that passed these bills last year, a billion excise duties were added to what we pulled out of the shadows. That's what goes for the needs of the Power. So I have a proposal for the authors: in principle, we can support this bill, but there are two areas: there is a law on alcohol trafficking, the production and trafficking of alcohol and tobacco, and in this law, in the 15th article, these are all, half of the rules that are in this law. It would be possible for a Siatin colleague to submit a bill to extend the article. Another way to do this is to accept it on first reading, but on one condition, that it will interact with our committee on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u66	Yes, thank you. Yes, please, from the Ministry of Health, the first Deputy Minister of Pedchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine’s Ministry of Health supports the need to adopt the bill. It has, as you put it, very important observations. That's why we agreed with the drafter of the bill by national deputy Sithina Mikhail Lukovic that we are working together for the second reading on the Supreme Council's profile committee, and we look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u68	Please, the closing word of the Seed, one minute, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u69	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for the discussion and for the suggestions made today at the address of this bill. And I agree with National Deputy Tsushko and the Committee on Banks and Banking, and I agree with the proposals proposed by the Ministry of Health. And I'm sure we'll take into account the work we do when we do. If it's accepted in the first reading, when we're working on the bill. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u70	The discussion was concluded. Let's be clear. The first is the ruling of the Burjak People's Deputy: The Unacceptability of the Bill on the Basic Principles of State Policy to Prevent Alcoholism in Ukraine. Registration number of Decree 3731-p1. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:35]] For-25 The decision is not taken. I put it to a vote: on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on the Basic Principles of State Policy against Alcoholism in Ukraine. Registration number 3731. [[11:32:05]] For 342 Yeah, 342. The Law was adopted in the first reading. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, communists - 59, "Regions of Ukraine" - 51, National Agrarian Party - 20, Social Democrats - 25, "One Ukraine" - 21, Socialists - 9, Block Timoshenko - 14, "Soyuz" - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, "Centre" - 12, "Democratic Ukraine" - 12, "Afterfraction" - 16. [[United]] Dear colleagues, let's move on to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda and decision-making on a reduced procedure. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on the recalculation of pensions of military pensioners]] Registration numbers: 6497, 6497-1. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:33:25]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 13, the communists are 59, the Ukrainian regions are 30, the People's Agrarian Party is 14, the Social Democrats are 25, the One Ukraine is 20, the Socialists are 9, the Block of Timoshenko is 10, the Union is 13, the Labour of Ukraine, the NDP is 10, the Democratic Initiative is -5, the Center is 0. [[United]] Ukraine - 12, non-fractional - 13. So please invite me to the author's statement to Bill 6497 of People's Deputies Vojs Volodymira Dmitrovic. Yes, please, before that powder from the committee, while Wojsz is leaving. 1 minute Motive powder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I thank you all for voting for the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. This problem really exists, and we need to look very carefully at it, but there is a standard of the Ukrainian committee law. This bill has not been considered by the Committee on Budgets in Ukraine, and it has not been two weeks since the final draft of the bill was registered. There have been alternative bills that we should consider, for this reason it is necessary that an article of the Budget Code should result in the conclusion of the official Ministry of Finance, an official position be presented to the government, which also did not come to the committee, so I will have a request. Since this is an extremely important social article that needs to be fully funded by the budget, clear and agreed sources of funding must be identified so as not to create such a disgraceful phenomenon as the debt of pensions, including military personnel. Adam Ivanovich, I'm going to have to ask you to make a comment to the secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u72	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u73	For what is being put into question, bills that have not passed the committee review procedure and postpone the consideration included in The agenda of the daily bill for the next meeting of the Supreme Council is to allow the Committee to conclude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Please have two more committees on this subject. Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich, one minute. And Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear comrades! We have a situation in the state that's aligned with what's happening in Russia right now. If we don't tell the Supreme Council's position today about the discrimination and the abuse of pensioners' rights, we will have the same performances that are now taking place in our neighbours. And what we're dealing with is the organized force that we've laughed about, which we've promised to phase out the injustices that have been committed in recent years, we've manipulated the cauldron, and now we're saying that we're not going to do that. I agree that we need to learn more about this issue. But I would like to consider this question, to make a decision in the first reading. The procedure is the conclusion of scientific experts, indeed, it requires further study. That's understandable. I would like to say, venerable veterans, know what this is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u77	It's those forces that want to rub on you, that used you, and now they're wiping your legs, know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u78	Please, Cibenko, the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I think the situation is difficult. And yet we have to move on to its solutions. The first thing I'd like to start with is that I have a budget committee in my hands that starts with the words, "The Budget Committee has reviewed the bill and expressed some thought." I'm sorry if I thought about it or not. Because now Mr. Dustenko has claimed that he has not considered the Committee on Budgets. And second of all. Dear colleagues! If we want to be on the streets of Kiev, on the streets of the district centers in the cities and villages of the ranks of yesterday’s military personnel, let us push them to do so. If we want to, we don't want to do that, we have to deal with this problem today, we have to accept the document in the first reading, and so, if you want, give homework and the Budget Committee and the Government when you solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor, be careful. You, if you have them at your disposal, have a budget committee decision dated January 20 of this year. The registration number here is the signature of Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, that they actually considered this bill and the rapporteur for this bill was appointed Head of the Committee. They, they, they made decisions, they considered. Let's do this: let's now get to the consideration, maybe we can make it in the first reading, let's take it, let's do it in the second one, Peter Alexiovich, well, there's your decision, there's your decision. Dear colleagues, the problem is understood, the problem is quite complicated. So, please, I would like to invite you to the word of Vojša, to prepare for the next bill of Cibenko, and then from the Committee of Dustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, Bill 6497 on amending, amending the State Budget Act 2005 has been submitted to your attention. The bill has been introduced by the People's Deputies, members of the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[Joint]] Many military pensioners who were outraged by the introduction of article 39 of the Ukrainian Budget Act were responsible for the introduction of the bill. That led to a conflict between the Military Pensions Act, which we passed this summer and the Act, which limited the amount of pension recalculation to only one figure, only one component, by service of age and 50 per cent. The provisions of article 39 of the Budget Act 2005 create a legal conflict that needs to be addressed urgently. To that end, our bill provides for the drafting of article 39, the substance of which is to remove the limitation on the recalculation of pensions and to establish that the recalculation of pensions will be carried out in accordance with strictly the provisions of the law. There was another suggestion, when we discussed it in the Committee on Defence and National Security, that a number of deputies should simply withdraw the article by 39. I believe that such a solution is not a normal solution for a number of reasons. First, the provision of article 39 has already been interpreted by some officials as the inclusion of only seniority allowance in pension recalculation. It is therefore necessary not to delete this article but to give it a clear wording. Secondly, the absence of a reference to the recalculation of pensions in the budget may repeat the situation of article 57 of the Education Act, which you remember was not provided for in the budget either. The law was, but the law was not working, and to what strained social consequences this has led is known to all. In addition, during our consideration of the draft bill by the Committee on Defence and National Security, it was found that the budget was insufficient to pay the recalculated pension. Therefore, if we simply cancel article 39, we will make a clear declaration. I propose not only a change in the drafting of this article, but also an additional budget, which will be allocated to a real solution to this issue in order for the law to actually work. I'm asking you to give me some more because I have to finish. I haven't finished yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u82	Finish it, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u83	An award is provided for that purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u85	The provision of additional funds from the State budget, as the financing of pensions for military pensioners is made exclusively from the State budget. Sources are provided for that purpose. I understand that the source of funds provided for me and the number needed to resolve this issue may be controversial. Therefore, I propose today to adopt this law as a basis, i.e. in first reading, and to further refine it in the Committee on Budget Affairs, since it has not really been considered in the Committee on Budgets, to finalize the law, to consider all the absolute digital data on the law, to agree with the Government. And that's how to solve the question. If it is said today that this issue is a mine under a new government, it is not. Here are my colleagues speaking today. Mine will be just as long as we are clear from this issue. We are here today to clear the situation so that the military pensioners do not go out on the streets today, demanding the fulfilment of their legitimate rights. I therefore propose today to adopt this draft law as a basis for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u86	Please sit down, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Bill 6497-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Presented to the Supreme Council, an extremely acute social problem. I think that both my colleagues in the hall and the radio audience are very well aware of the familiar saying that a country that does not or cannot support its own army is destined to feed a foreign army. We get some confirmation from time to time. And this is confirmed by the appearance in the project, in the 2005 government budget of Ukraine, of the 39th article, which greatly reduces the possibility of recalculating pensions to former military personnel. That is why a group of national deputies, such as Kadenuk, Bulba, Cibenko, and Rudzikowski, made a proposal to consider the problem and the issue. One phrase, literally, about the history of the question. It is that many know how acute the problem is, but many do not understand where it came from. I understand that not everyone will like it, but I have to say that the problem has been created by the ministers and the forces, the leaders of the forces and the President of Ukraine. Some carried draft decrees, while others issued decrees to support today’s military forces and toss them at the discretion of yesterday’s military officers. So this is where the problem came from. Last year, you and I adopted the amendments to the basic law to 43 articles that practically solved this problem, the problem of pension insurance for military personnel. The president of Ukraine disagreed with the 43rd article and vetoed it. We're here with you, your honor, in this room, the President's veto. The problem seemed to be solved, but this was not what it was supposed to be, for there were 39 articles in the state budget, which, again, narrows down the possibility of recalculation of pensions to those who had retired a little earlier. That's why we're proposing to delete article 39 of the State Budget Act 2005. What will the deletion of 39 articles mean? It's going to mean that the Pension Insurance Act, I don't call it a full name, which is that its 43 articles will be fully operational, so we're taking a very important step towards solving the problem. So, honourable colleagues, I call upon everyone, regardless of party, faction, region and so forth, to support this document, at least in the first reading. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u88	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u89	Once again, my dear colleagues, this is what we are giving home to, as it were, both the Committee on Budgets and the new government to solve this problem. I'm warning everyone again. The problem is extremely serious, and if we don't want any more turbulence in the country, we have to start solving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u90	Peter Stepanovich! Obviously, we should, if we accept, take it immediately. That's why. We don't need to draw these bills, because destruction is happening in society on this issue. Yes, dear colleagues, from the committee. Peter Alexiovich, will you or Assadchev? Head of the Budget Committee on Budget Questions, Prášenko Petr Aleksiyovich. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There's a substitution in the hall right now. First of all, I would like to emphasize, including the honourable colleagues who are now waving their hands and directing that December 23rd was voted on by the National Budget Act. There was a 39th article in this budget, and you voted for it -- both you and you, who are trying to play this card right now. I would like to say now that this will lead, on the contrary, to indignation, because we now have this decision without, I stress, the decision of the budgetary committee, the conclusion of the scientific and financial administration, which clearly denies the adoption of this law, states that we are creating injustice, because the pension account that is currently taking place is based on the allowances that have been established by the President's decrees. And the same major or lieutenant colonel in the same garrison is going to get 10 percent of the allowances, in the second garrison is 90, for the same service. This will result in a decision that will be made in a number of ways. So I'd like to go to everyone, because "mild intentions" is a paved road to hell, so that we can now take a close look, maybe at a joint committee meeting, we had this practice, Georgi Korniyovich, and we've always found understanding, we've defined the principles behind which we settle pension issues for military personnel, we've identified pension issues for other categories of citizens, because today the pension of a military official from a teacher's pension sometimes differs 10-12 times. No country in the world knows such a thing. Let's compare the village teacher and compare the colonel to 15 times the difference. How does one work? So, your honor, this problem needs to be solved in a complex. And that's why I'm underlining that now -- Vladimir Mikhailovich -- we're breaking the procedure, we're violating the budget code, we're breaking the rules, and we're breaking the committee laws, so that we can remove it, we can process it on the committee, we can make a concerted decision, we can vote, and that's the only way we're going to end the outrage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Committee on Budget Affairs has provided the relevant material that I have considered and has written in this way: "Considering what has been said, these bills are proposed to be considered in preparation for amendments to the Law on the State Budget in accordance with article 110 of this Act." So if there is such a conclusion, it means that the Budget Committee has considered the matter. But. [[One minute! One minute, Peter Alexiovich!]] But the Budget Committee has a proposal to reject the bill in this case and consider it when changes are made. It is necessary for the Supreme Council to determine whether it listens to the committee’s position or not. But you have the document, Peter Alexiovich. And there's also an appropriate conclusion that you rightly called the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which suggests that we send for further work. And before we put it to a vote, there'll be another emphasis on the famous MPs, and that's what's being proved. So I don't see any violation of the Rules here, Peter Alexiyovich. At least you supported me! Let's move on to the bill. That table is the name of the National Deputies for discussion. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable national deputies who are offered, in what way they are offered, and in whom they are offered. I have recently received many petitions from senior military personnel, heads of staff, the ranks of internal affairs bodies and some others regarding the alleged injustice, when one is paid more than the other, and the other is paid less. This was because several decrees by President Kuchma aimed at bribing virtually many military personnel, especially their leaders, issued decrees, which were called "for allowances to military or security personnel" and so on and so forth. There's been an anecdote. I was told that the Minister of the Interior had received a pension of 15,000 dollars. I ask you, do we live in a normal state when we put 280 dollars there and 15,000?!Oh, my God! Is it crazy when a pension is 65 times different? It's probably something wrong. And so after a thorough study of all the proposals that are budgeted, I want to understand and everyone needs to understand which wages, what normative acts have been set up and how this has been done. I want there to be no antagonism in society today between those who receive an extremely large pension and those who are also provided for in article 39 of the State Budget 2005 Act. And you and I, when we take the budget, we gave an order to a new government that's going to be there to remove the anti-constitutional stuff about teachers, pensioners, Chernobyls, judges, prosecutors and all sorts of categories of people. So let's not take off one single category, in this case those people who are in the law today. We also have to solve the issue of budgeting military pensioners and retired teachers and doctors and other pensioners and the entire Ukrainian people. So obviously the bill is not prepared today, it's not justified, there's no new government, so it's perfectly appropriate to make a proposal, including it in the agenda, not to make a decision right now so that it doesn't go down without going down on purpose. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u95	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say a few words about why this bill is now being introduced and considered. Of course, because of the mature issue, there is a problem, there is a problem in the army, there is a problem, first of all, about the immoderation of pensions for military and police personnel. In order not to count them all, I'll just say one figure: the army general gets a pension of 4,000 dollars, the army general gets a pension of 8,000 dollars. So it's almost all over the range of military names. And of course, you have to reconcile and do the same thing, and you have to start with the army, of course, because the police only got that high pension for one reason: because they served the regime at the time. Now it has to move into the service of the people, not individual oligarchic groups, clans or political parties, who wanted to privatize the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There is a need to seek justice. But frankly, it is only when you want to harm both the issue itself and the military, for which the issue is raised, and the state as a whole. So I would point out that, in any case, the law can only enter into force as soon as the budget starts to be formed. Is that good? No, I don't think that's the best option. A better option would certainly be to consider budget and budget changes to strengthen the permanent dependency of pensions on salaries, i.e. the constant increase in pensions and the equalization of pensions to the military, because there really can't be such a dominant injustice. And on the other hand, there's another option: first reading, and this law goes to the committee. But it's still a bill, so it's a concept. And it's very, very difficult to get out of this colossal. The solution is necessary, but whether it's through law or because of budget changes, it's still a question that needs to be considered, because it doesn't always get better, it doesn't always. Angry moon. So there's literally a few days left here, a week, from the February month, there's already got to be some budget changes. At least that's what the Head of the Budget Committee promised us, and I'm inclined to keep his word. The next situation: an unformed government, and we need to give the government the opportunity to formulate their proposals for budget changes, is also a normal concept. So in this situation, it's complicated, it's very difficult, it's kind of dualism. I want to, and I need to solve the situation, but for example, I am not personally convinced that this can be done, in fact, through this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we may proceed in this way: we will complete the consideration of this bill and then we will announce the recess. I understand what I'm saying, I'm just consulting the Supreme Council. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction, please prepare Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u97	Thank you. Honourable MPs, honourable voters, the fact is that the need for adoption of this bill is already obvious to all. In fact, there is a mix of imbalances and inequity in pension insurance between retired military workers who have retired in different years. And as far as the Bills are concerned, you could agree with the Bill that Voyosh was introducing, but let's all point out that if we go this way, it's going to take a long time to resolve this issue in time. As long as we accept it on the first reading, let us take a look at it while we analyze it. And when will this end? No one can say. And that bill that Zibenko was introducing, it solves the problem extremely quickly. We remove 39 Articles from the Budget and act under the Pension Insurance Act. It's very simple and, I think everyone understands. And when the Head of the Budget Committee was speaking here, first of all, I would like to point out that he's not the Prime Minister yet, but in what tone he's been acting in the order of order, he probably needs to pay attention, and he's motivated by the lack of funds. And we all voted in favour of this law when you were still in the pre-election process on pension insurance. As the elections have already taken place, as you have to decide directly how to improve people’s lives, you start boycotting here. Ununderstandable position. What's the point of talking about a teacher and a military officer's pension? So there's the imbalance, the abnormal pension for a teacher or a doctor, and I agree with that. But today we're talking about justice, why some military personnel get the same pension, and others get the same title or the same job much less. That's the whole point. The same article 39, if you all remember, appeared in the second version. In the first version of the budget bill, it wasn't there, and then someone, and it needs to be determined how this 39th article got into the Budget Act, and there was no article vote, so the cop voted everything, and now, as a man I don't respect very much, we have what we have. So we need to rule out this practice so that we can eliminate the rule by the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Ivan Alexanderovich Herasimov, a faction of Communists, is invited to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Gerasimov, Communist Party. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I am speaking to you both as a national MP and as President of the Council for the Organization of Veterans of War, Labour and Military Service of Ukraine, which has 14 million veterans. These are the people who, during the Great Homeland War, held the honour, freedom, independence of their homeland, who protected the peoples of Europe from the brown plague of the twentieth century, Fascism, freed them. And here I am today speaking in the year of the 60th anniversary of our great victory, less than half a year before this greatest holiday. This year has been declared a year of veterans, distinguished by the people. And today I'm speaking, and I want to ask you, what have they done to you, to the people, to the Fatherland, to the State of the Veterans? Why have the veterans been making a consistent attack on them all the time?Oh, my God! Let us begin by saying that today, more than 40,000 family members do not live but are literally tortured without apartments! And no one's building them an apartment, and they don't even make any promises! And this year a veteran! Let's start by dividing the veterans of war, military service, veterans of labour, including veterans of war, into their own and strangers, one pension, after 1992 and those who were fired before 1992, three or four times less! Our soldiers, the veterans, went to the courts. Thousands of courts, courts and positive decisions. However, these decisions are not being implemented! And here's the last one. This has already led to the handle of veterans - article 39 in a budget where we cannot continue to agree to this matter! I think those who speak, that's a violation, yes, that's a gross violation! It's a violation of the law! I'm asking you, people's deputies, to make a positive decision every year of veterans, help the veterans get what they've earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the discussion on Ukraine's draft law amending Ukraine's Law on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget on Retirement of Military Pensioners has been completed. If there are no warnings, we will now proceed to the vote. Before the vote, I would like to say once again, my fellow Members, to remind you that the Committee on Budgets, after considering draft laws, has come to a conclusion and this has been discussed by the Head of the Committee on Budgets, which, taking into account the proposed bills, is proposed to be considered in preparation for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2005. The relevant warnings have also been made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes to be sent for further work. But according to the procedure, according to the procedure, I'm going to put drafts to the vote for adoption as a basis. The first is for the vote, for the adoption of Project 6497, which is given as a replacement. The authors are the national deputies of Ukraine Vojs and Fix. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 National Budget for Ukraine on the Retirement of Military Pensioners. [[12:07:08]] For 213 The factions? Please. Yes, "Our Ukraine" - 2, the communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 39, National Agrarian - 4, "SDPU" - 27, "One Ukraine" - 7, "SPU - 18, "Timoshenko - 2, "Soyuz" - 14, "Truble Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Centre" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 13, "Sofa" - 15. The vote is on the basis of the draft law, the registration number - 6497-1 on the amendment of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005. The authors are Ukrainian national deputies Kadenuk, Cibenko, Rudzkowski. Based on the base. Please vote. [[12:08:08]] For 254 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist faction - 59, "Regions of Ukraine" - 49, People's Agrarian Party - 25, SDPU - 25, "One Ukraine" - 2, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Soyuz" - 12, "Trudova Ukraine and NDP" - 10, "Deminitiates" - 3, "Centre" - 0, "Afterfraction - 20. Yes, there is a proposal in general. One minute, do you have a warning? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There's a warning. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Microphone. Let's follow procedure. We agreed with you, if there's a warning, we're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u101	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, well, you can make warnings, and they'll probably be legitimate. But I would like to ask my respectable colleagues to act in this way. The Budget Committee, the future government of Ukraine are meeting in February to review the Ukrainian State Budget for 2005. I would ask you to support this document as a whole, and in February it will be taken into account by the budget committee and the government. I ask you to support the entire document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u102	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again: Is there a suggestion to vote in general, does anyone have a warning? Well, here's a warning. Well, respectable colleagues! Well, I understand, but you'd better understand that if there's a warning, we can't put it to a vote, all the time. Masenko Alexander, please. All right, I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies and Vladimir Mikhailovich! Well, if we were to write some text of the article so that we could make some changes, some additions, I can still understand. We're not writing anything in the text section, we're deleting the 39th article. What further objections may there be? Article 39 is deleted, and we continue to act under the law on the pension of military personnel. What might be a warning of change here? It is you who do it specifically to boycott the adoption of this law and to make a fiber out of it, and then you will say that you are fighting for the happiness of the people. So I'm asking the military pensioners to understand: these are the fighters for the happiness of the people, for whom you have voted to some extent to continue to be bullied by them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u104	Thank you. The bill is closed, Your Honor. With motive? Sign up, three minutes of motive. Three minutes of motive. But the bill is closed. Well, first number, let's take a look at the committee. We'll have the first meeting, dear fellows! Jaroslav Kenzier, please. Then Michaela Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u105	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! You know, on the other hand, you're watching our truthful people today as they would like to build a bright future for the Ukrainian people, knowingly stealing from Ukraine into the thread, and today they're introducing appropriate bills to provide maximum wages in the legislative plan. By the way, wages are lower today than the minimum pension rate. This is the absurdity of the former government, and this is the absurdity of the Supreme Council. So I would like to really give the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budgets today, a serious review of all these indicators -- and then in a complex to determine, settle pension issues for all categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u106	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u107	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear colleagues, this is a dispute that has arisen with respect to veterans, this is a shameful dispute. As for your colleagues, you are in power today, and tomorrow you will be, too. You have to get used to what people are talking to you, and now you've gone to elections, you've really promised the brightest light for the common people. For the common people have voted for you, and now you refuse the bright future. Well, you can't do that either! And the last. The Budget Committee and the new Government will be able to adjust and review the budget. They already agreed it would be in February. Let's vote, and it's just not worth, as the egg is said to be eaten.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u108	Igor Šurma, please. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u109	Please pass the word to Volodymyr Voys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u110	Vladimir Vojš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! That bill, which was proposed by me, provided for such a procedure that it was adopted on first reading and then dealt in detail with all the necessary means for the implementation of the bill. However, since we have adopted a second bill that simply eliminates this 39 article, it is now absolutely necessary to adopt it as a whole in order for it to be the task of the budgetary committee and the new government to address this issue. The Social Democratic Party therefore supports the proposal to enact this law today as a whole. [[Joint]] This means that we will really solve the problem when we adjust the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. The bill was completed, and we accepted it as a basis. I'm asking the committee to prepare it for February 1st, and we'll look at it in the second reading. Well, well. There's a warning, what can we do, dear fellows? Well, the thing is, we've just written down that on February 1st, we're going to include it in the February 1st session, and that's it. No, well, on February 1st, we're looking at this bill. No warning? Well, that's it. Then in this decision, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate assignment and schedule for February 1st. Dear colleagues! There is such a proposal if you agree to it that we will now consider a draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2005 to include this issue in the agenda first. One minute, now. Now don't take breaks, and then the fourth time we're done on this issue, we're going to go to "different." That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to ask, colleagues, after our morning session to clean up all your working cities, prepare it for the January 23rd celebration. And I would also like to ask you, dear colleagues, taking into account the tense transport problem that will exist on the 23rd, to arrive early in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. with an appropriate reserve, to calculate the movement of yours across the city of Kiev. Now, from the procedure for including this question, 3 minutes, please write it down for 3 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Kosov, please. Mikhail Kossova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u113	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The budget is going to have to be adjusted anyway because there's no representative of any faction in the Supreme Council Hall who doesn't understand that the budget is made up of voluntary, that it's constantly spilling and profitable, and that the spending part is completely subjective. So we can put this issue in the order of the day, because it depends, in particular, on the solution to the question that we have just adopted in the first reading. If we don't put the order in the way the income part of the budget is going to be formed, we don't solve the cost of the budget as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u114	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Then it's Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u116	Zibenik Peter Stepanovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, in fact, the inclusion in the order of the day is a continuation of the controversy that has only just erupted in the room on the issue of the pension insurance of military personnel. Just now, Mr. Dustenko of the Supreme Council stands to say that the teacher will receive a small pension. What is suggested by this? On December 23, you and I, dear colleagues, passed the Law, which raised the minimum pension to a minimum of living. Mr. Poshenko, the faction of our Ukraine" proposes to suspend this law, i.e. to reject the pension provision of our citizens: 11 million of the most disadvantaged citizens of Ukraine to the level they have received before. Here are your words and deeds. What was promised and what is being done is real, yet to the stern of the government. Thank you, I beg you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u118	Komar, Ukraine faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u119	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to stress that a warning about the removal of the 39th Articles. But what might be the warning? Either we remove it or we don't delete it, we have to vote today. And why would you put it back in the daytime? Well, with regard to the budget, I would like to say that this Supreme Council has resigned the government that has implemented the budget. We weren't allowed into the hall then, I don't know, secret ballots, maybe my card voted? Because they wouldn't let us into the hall. This is about the budget, the budget, of course, this is not going to be done. It's going to have to be examined, but it's a completely different, different, different question. Now we need to delete 39 Articles. What warnings can be given in this regard? None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we're already looking at Bill 6475. I fully agree with you that there's nothing to reconsider. But that's the rule, that's the procedure. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion. What, what? Time's up, zero, so what are you offering me? Just a minute. Please don't control it. Nestor Ivanovich, come on now, don't run me, please. Calm down. All right, dear fellows, we've exchanged procedures on the table zero. All of it. May I have your attention, please? A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act is put to the vote, and it is written here, in article 9. I'm simply proposing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. Is it correct? This is registration number 6475. About getting into the daytime. [[12:21:52]] For 238. Questions in the agenda are included. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -100; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -2; National Agrarian -26; SDPU -0; "Only Ukraine" -19; SPO -11; Timoshenko -17; "Union" -13; "Trubic Ukraine", NDP -8; "Deminicatives" -4; "Centre" -13; "Democratic Initiative" 12; non-fractional -13. Yeah, let's get down to business. The head of the budget committee, Valérie Assadchev, is the deputy head of the budget. Dear colleagues, you and I have agreed that we will consider this issue and then approach the "Virgin" consideration earlier. We're not taking a break. You said yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u121	Dear friends, Valérie Assadchev, Budget Committee. You know, I'm not the first year on the committee, not the first year we've been able to handle these battalions with respectable Communist populists. We need to be absolutely clear about the more we break the economic balance, the more we break the budget balance, the more we fool our citizens, including pensioners, including military personnel. You, Mr. Communists, said that one article should be changed, cancelled, but you didn't say it was worth 900 million. And where to take 900 million, nobody said either. And this is the budget balance. The same thing is happening to us right now. We, when we formed the budget, we were in this budget right over here, and we raised the living level, so I say to Mr. Cibenko, we were trying to do that, and we did that, we got it to 284, and by the way, the committee worked very hard on that. But the new subsistence minimum was already voted after the new year and after the budget was adopted. According to the Code of Budgets, such bills should take effect only from the new fiscal year. Because since we voted the new living minimum, the 15 billion it costs has not fallen from the sky. And the new government hasn't started yet. And if we leave it that way, we have to pay them now. So let's not get involved, dear friends, in populism. We fully support the fact that not only pensions should be equal to the minimum of living, but wages should be equal to the minimum of living. But in one day and in one vote, that is not the case. Because this imbalance took place for ten years in Ukraine. And let's not fool our citizens. So our proposal, this bill, is now to vote on it. The essence of it is that we leave pensions at the minimum of living, but the one that worked at the time of the adoption of the budget law. The new subsistence minimum is proposed to be introduced as of January 1, 2006. And that's what the Budget Code provides, and that's how it's supposed to be. And that's why I have this proposal for this bill to vote and vote in full. And by the way, we're also proposing an increase in income by cancelling zero import duty rates on individual goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u122	Yes. Dear colleagues! Wait! Is that how we're going? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We don't have any questions, do we? Have a seat. The replica's coming! Well. Let's ask. Yes, Cibenko Replica, and then we'll move on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u124	Well, the name was! Well, he's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u125	One of the lords of our Ukraine was trying to tell me that a populist decision had been made. In answer to him, I would like to say, firstly, for overcoming the President's veto on the new size of the minimum of living, and including the faction "Our Ukraine," if he forgot, I'll remind him. That's the first one. Ah, the others. Among the authors of the document, which was adopted on December 23, on the establishment of a minimum pension on the basis of a subsistence minimum were Deputy Cibenko, who represented the Communist faction, Deputy Kulczynski, who represented the faction "Our Ukraine" and the Turkish deputy, who represented the BUT faction. Dear colleagues! This is our decision with you. If you and I have changed our mind and feel that after the election, if we have fallen to the throne, we can give it up, that is your decision. I ask you not to vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, please. On the board of the names of the national deputies, please list the dates for the presentations. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak. Yuri Anatolyovich? Well, then, Vladimir Cherniak. Until Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin came along.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u127	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In a state of hard thinking, I went out to this rostrum. The MP is a populist by definition, if the MP is a non-populist, what kind of deputy is he? But if he's just a populist, what kind of professional is he? We are always faced with such a dilemma when we are married to this high rostrum. Of course, it is important to remember that Parliament came into existence historically as an authority that distributes funds. Social needs arose, funds were needed for social needs, and there was to be a representative body of the people who distributed funds for these social needs. And the government came up as a body that ensures that the budget is filled with the funds allocated by Parliament. And we should keep that in mind. Of course, we're all in favour of keeping the minimum wage and the minimum pension at a minimum of living. It's an axiom from which no one in this room has the right as a representative of the people to refuse, including representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" do not refuse to do so. The question is: How can we act, how can we provide a new subsistence minimum, either from January 1, 2005, or from January 1, 2006. And the budget committee, as a profile committee, he tells us, we need to strike a balance. We can't deny that. Of course, it would have been better to introduce since January 1, 2005, and I have this hand and it's going to press the button to vote for it. Rather, sooner or later -- that's what the people want from us. But there's a balance to be made. I'm in favour of the profile committee, if the Supreme Council, if the government is to secure a budget balance and find the funds to introduce the minimum wage and the minimum pension at the minimum subsistence rate of the first January of this year, it is necessary to vote, but it is necessary to ensure a balance, because the budget cannot be balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u128	Yuri. Yeah, I can't see Carmazine. George Ponomarenko is given the right to speak. Please. [[Is your last name mentioned? He'll be right on the line, okay?]] Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u129	I want to say again what Peter Cibenko said, including for the socialists that we voted on. It's about stopping the act of law that we voted on December 23 to make the minimum of living a minimum, the minimum pension should be equal to the minimum of living. The law, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is very crafty, and the first part is the suspension of article nine, and the second is purely social. [[It's cocoa beans, margarine and all.]] I ask the lord of the Democrats and others who made: So where are the promises that you promised on the field? You're there for the people, and today this people are muttering about asphalt. I think when you look at the budget, you can know not one tenth of a billion, if you put it all together next to it, I say, if you put together what you promised the new president. And I think the new government that you're going to form will find these billions. We stand firm against it. For the first time in 10 years, we voted in favour of the 2005 budget just to preserve that 284 - minimum pension. I think this project needs to be rejected, and the billions you promised in the area, we'll find changes to the 2005 budget when we look at the budget. You can't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u130	Vladimir Rabbit, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare the Homutinian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Hare, faction of SDPU. I'm sitting in the hall now thinking what a nice thing it is to be in opposition when you don't have to worry about the possibilities of the budget, the balance of the budget, and talk about how you can protect the interests of the Ukrainian people. But specifically on the basis of that question. I want to draw your attention to the fact that, from December 23 to today, if there were any changes, the law was already in force, which applied to the zero rate of duty for importing certain groups and goods into Ukraine. So there were cocoa pastes among them. I want to ask now, and who has been using this rule all along, and so there are no questions about the representatives of our Ukraine who have handed over the people, I am now asking the State Customs Committee to provide us with information on what groups of goods and who has imported these goods into Ukraine and how much has lost the State budget. Because if this rule is introduced today, God forbid, it will mean that there will be a settlement with the competitors who have used it. And second position. I want to ask people today who are proposing to make these changes to the Ukrainian Budget Act, if they can recognize the fact that they're not going to make those promises that were made by the new government, the new president for pensioners, because if we count the pension size of the Ukrainian pensioner from 132 minimum pension to that supplement, plus the indexation, it's about 300 dollars, plus 1 percent per year. For a minimum of 20 years for women and 25 years for men, respectively. In view of the fact that the corresponding Housing Minimum Act 2005 for this category of people who do not work, the minimum subsistence minimum is 332 bracelets. This law was passed in the Supreme Council by the constitutional majority of the national deputies. It's already been written down by the President of Ukraine. Now we are being asked to postpone this position for a year, even though it has to take effect since this year. If we're willing to support this position, that means that from every Ukrainian pensioner we're taking about 10 dollars to retirement today. Although, if I recall, one of the first decrees of the new president was that he was willing to sign a minimum of living for the current year much higher than the one in the law today. So I'm saying that the first norm that I'm talking about and the second is an absolute crime. If Parliament votes for this today, I don't mind, but it will be done by the hands of the new authorities, and what will happen. Today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u132	Hometic, please, the faction of Ukraine, the last speaker. Please calm down, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! The bill consists of two blocks in its essence not until the end of the compatible and different. With regard to the first cluster mentioned above, the extension of the minimum pension period to the subsistence minimum, I believe that if we are to make a decision for which the majority vote in the upper room, including the factions that now initiate the extension, I think that we must implement these decisions, even if they are to be carried out by another Government. With regard to the second cluster, the change in customs tariffs, there was no letter or amendment to our special committee on finance and banking, or agreement on changes in these rates, and unfortunately we did not participate. However, in accordance with article 1 and 7 of the Ukrainian Tax System Act, the rates, mechanisms, tax collection and changes in tax rates should be governed solely by tax legislation. We would therefore support this rule in this regard, but this rule should be passed by a separate bill not in a package with a social bloc. That's a first. Second. We have been informed that some companies, manufacturers of air conditioning products, have been able to benefit from this benefit and that the benefit is 30 per cent concessional and 60 in full. During that time, we also reserve the right to ask the Committee for a parliamentary request to the Customs authorities to learn, understand for ourselves and for the Parliamentarians: which companies have taken advantage of this benefit? Were they not close to political groups? Thank you for your attention. And my view is that there is no need to support the bill to this extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u134	Rudzikowski with motive, one minute, please, because Rudzikowski was written. One minute, microphone, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist faction will not support this Law. We voted to consider it and to exchange our thoughts. The point is that the socialists in their program, when they went to the polls, said that we believe that the minimum wage and pensions should be at the minimum wage. This is the principle of our position as socialists. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz went to the President's election with such a requirement, and we believe that the Coalition Authority is capable of providing a minimum pension and a minimum wage at the minimum wage. We have to force the oligarchs who now own 80% of property in Ukraine to pay taxes. And this is our joint task, both our Ukraine, and the Socialists, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Together we're going to do this, this is a problem we're going to do. And people have to get 332 pensions next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u136	Yes. Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 has been completed. I'd like to pay attention, and I'd like to delete the words "arts. 9." Because it's about budget changes. What, what? In the name, the name, I mean. I mean, the name. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005. [[Registration number 6475]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:40:48]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -97; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -2; National Agrarian -9; SDPU -1; "Only Ukraine" -14; SPO -0; Block Timoshenko -7; "Union" -1; "True Ukraine" -3; "Democratic Initiatives" -3; "Centre" -12; "Democratic Ukraine" -11; non-fractional -12. The bill was not passed then, rejected. Dear colleagues, the question is over. For reasons of what? The next question is, then you can. He had the right to a replica, his last name. Mikola Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u137	I want to answer Peter Stepanovich's words. And I realize that the Communists don't like to call on a government that doesn't yet exist. And I want to assure you that neither as the author of the bill nor the faction is going to deny the idea that pensions and wages are going to be less profitable. But, dear fellows, you're criticizing a government that doesn't yet exist. Let's work and get all the money out. You don't have to speculate on that. Because you, by protecting and working for a procurator, are now eager to accuse the other side of the welfare that will bring to the Ukrainian people. I know it hurts to lose, but let people know that we have to work a year to fill that budget. And you don't have to speculate on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u138	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, National Deputy, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Hennaday Rudenko insists that the Supreme Council determine his application for discharge from the post of Head of the Committee. The Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics, and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council considered the matter and recommended to the Supreme Council its head, in accordance with the requirements of article 4.4, paragraph 1, of the first part. 6 The Supreme Council regulation proposes to refer the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Genadi Borisovich, for consideration by the Supreme Council, in accordance with his written statement. Therefore, according to the procedure, we need to include the matter in the order of the day. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to call on the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster into the agenda. Registration number 6509-d. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:01]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. The Supreme Council wants Gennady Borisovich to serve in this office. All of it. I'm asking people to sign up for different appointments. On the board is the name of the people's deputies who signed up for the performances in "The Miscellaneous." Eugene Kirilchuk, please. Please set 60 minutes. Take your time. A total of 30 national deputies enrolled. To all those who do not want to speak in different and different national deputies, please take a close look at their jobs and collect all the materials in these workplaces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I don't think I'm going to be original when I say that the sink is going at a great rate all over Ukraine. I have received several calls from the Volin region, and I think such calls are coming from all over the area, where those who last days perform the duties of heads of government, of government, of deputies today interfere in local budgets, in redistribution of funds for their own benefit, for their subordinates, export state property, privatize the apartments in which they lived. I mean, there's a terrible process going on. I think we should immediately issue an order for the release of all this category of work so that they do not have the right to steal property, first of all, state property. The second is the utility. We've seen today the last two days President Kuchma has wanted to repay two more for his faithful service and insert them, I don't say, even choose to the Constitutional Court, which would not be allowed to take them out of there for at least five years. In this regard, people who have not been judged completely in the courts; people who have abused their former positions of service are terrible information about these people. And it was only the principle of the faction of the Yulia Block that Timoshenko did not allow these people to enter the Constitutional Court on the President's last day. Such things need to be given a serious assessment today. To be completed. I'd like to say about the last two questions that, in this room, are a terrible discussion. We'll see how we vote when we limit free economic zones when we limit the benefits to clans, oligarchs, when we eliminate zero rates to fill the income portion of the budget, because if there's a sharp increase in income, it's going to be that in the Supreme Council there's going to be social problems. But I'm sure we're very fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u140	Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready for the ground. [[Taranu]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u141	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ladies and gentlemen of the people, we are approached by the inhabitants of the province of Korovograd. You have recently considered a law on militia, a local self - government that you have discussed, which says that democracy is impossible without the creation of developed local self - government, where one of the main tasks of local self - government is to ensure the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen, including the protection of their lives, health, honor and dignity. But please tell me, is it possible today in our country, where the main criteria for the work of law enforcement officials are not professional and moral qualities, but personal commitment and willingness to do anything, including illegal orders and instructions. This was done by the right-holders, in paws, in the region of Kyrovograd, New Ukraine, where, at the command of the head of the state of Balan, one of the wealthy farms was to be destroyed not only by the region, but also by Ukraine, by the KSP "Niva" and its leader, the skilled, intelligent owner of the Communist, Ogor Vladimir Ivanovich. In the eyes of the people, using dirty and gang-like methods, these "protectors" in their paws, under their paws, carried out Balan's commands. In the same way, law enforcement officials work everywhere in the sovereign, independent, and democratic Ukraine. Thus, it is not surprising that changes in law enforcement authorities can only be partially recognized by their actual reform in accordance with the requirements of the development of the democratic rule of law, the realization of human and civil rights and freedoms. So reforming the law enforcement system is a need for time. According to Communist faction leader Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, radical changes in the activities of law enforcement institutions cannot be made without changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, but these changes are distracting. Today, we need to develop an operational framework for reforming the entire law enforcement system, not to divide it into internalists. Most of the proposed administrative money does not have enough impact on the reform of the law enforcement system, as evidenced by the lack of qualitative distortions. As a result, many complaints about illegal acts or the inaction of law enforcement officials, their abuse, their rudeness, and their disrespect for human beings, as well as their request to protect them from law enforcement. Is there any hope that the local self - government police will be able to act as a law enforcement officer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u142	Please, Teren, the faction of Block Tymoshenko. Prepare Bartkiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u143	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! At last, "Qushmism" is going into non-existence, this power is coming, this power that has bludgeoned itself with the killings of Guy Gongadze and thousands of nameless killings, this power of corruption, and today, in the last, as it were, moments of opposing this power, I want to say what the honourable deputy Kirilchuk was talking about here. Indeed, there's a mass "admission" of something that hasn't yet been privatized, and there's an attempt in the last few minutes to assign Kuchma to its people wherever possible, in particular, it was yesterday at the top of cynicism -- an attempt to reach out to two members of the Constitutional Court, and we didn't allow it. The Kuchma era ends, and I welcome the citizens of Ukraine, an era that was characteristic of, among other things, that Kuchma has tried all with everyone to digest, and finally to digest the West, the South, the North and the East. And I want to say that it's very symbolic. It is very symbolic and very remarkable that the inauguration of the new President of Ukraine will take place on January 22 -- on the day of the calamity, the historic day when Ukraine declared itself the only state that has confidently targeted its steps towards the future. Regrettably, Ukraine did not stand. But it must stand now, stand still forever and claim itself as a state powerful, democratic, civilized and, above all, democratic, because it was right to say in its time, Simon Petlur, that without democratic Ukraine there can be no free, democratic Europe. And if Ukraine is democratic and truly independent, this means that the President must immediately make an application both for entry into the EU and NATO, because only NATO and the EU can be an alternative to Russian ambitions and we need to review immediately what they have done with the reverse oil pipeline and review this membership in the EP where Ukraine cannot be a place. We're for normal cooperation, for specific contracts, but not for national structures, because independence is too expensive for us to get it later. It's her. And of course, the real approval of the Ukrainian state language, because it's a disgrace to hear the language of the neighbouring state in the Ukrainian Parliament until today, and we're pretty sure it's going to be raised to the normal European standard of living. But we don't want revenge. But the law requires that Kiwalov be answered, not that he is today the rector of the Odessa Law Academy; those who beat students; those who give criminal orders should be held accountable by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u144	Please, Bartkov. Get ready. Zubanov's handing over Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u145	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radio listeners! Basil Bartkov, Ukrainian People's Party, Deputy Group "Centre". The situation on the State Committee on the State Reserve over the past two years has clearly demonstrated the criminal approach of individual senior officials of the State to the exercise of their official powers and to the detriment of the interests of the State in scope, which could lead to the total destruction and destruction of the stocks of the public reserve's goods and materials. Especially. First of all, you need to pay attention to the following. In the course of tender committees and competition committees on the State Committee on the State Material Reserve, there has been a massive violation of existing legislation. That's what happens in the next one. The winners of tenders and competitions are personally identified by the head of the Pesocki State. In general, the winners of these procedures are narrowed down by commercial structures, disregarding the interests of domestic producers and enterprises, responsible storekeepers of commodity values, government and mobilization reserves. Counterfeiting and falsifications are widespread with documents relating to tenders and competitions. Thus, in August 2004, commercial structures, which are not domestic producers, took part in tenders and the purchase of food grain into the State Reserve. Also, the state reserve companies that took part in the tenders, the bread bases and the breadcombs and were accepted at the direct direction of Pesotské had received food grains from intermediate commercial structures in violation of current legislation at higher prices. During the Grain Crisis, the Head of the Derzkoreservia decided to purchase food grains of foreign origin at a price of at least 50 percent exceeded real market prices, and at its high-quality rates it did not meet the requirements of the Statekkomstandard or changed quality. Unanimity in the state’s material reserve of contaminated grains and sprouted grains Without taking into account economic rationalities, a decision is made on the transfer of commodity values from one enterprise to another, which in turn results in economic losses at a particularly high level, with budgetary costs being used. A similar criminal scheme has also been developed in other groups of commodity values of the state reserve, on which I have not been able to focus your attention in the absence of time. I would like to draw your attention to the trends that are now taking place in Ukraine, especially with regard to the leaders who beat the thresholds, walk, paint in five minutes to their end in a different color, which applies to such leaders who abused, returned VAT and in the Kharkiv region. It also applies to the head of the State Reserve. Dear colleagues! In the near future, you will be interviewed by the Attorney General. We know, if it's not all, it's a lot. So don't waste your energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u146	Yes. Please, Zubanov passes the word to Korsakov. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, "Regions of Ukraine" faction, 50th constituency. At the moment, Ukraine has been dealing with the unfavourable media. In addition to the individual journalists and television leaders, there are also direct television broadcasters. A chronicle of events. Ukrainian television journalists have repeatedly received threats by telephone and by e-mail and even in the streets during the election period. This is confirmed not only by the detailed notes of the members of the TRC and by electronic letters addressed to them, but also by the request to the Vorosililovsky District Police Department of Donetsk. Threats of a personal nature on behalf of Pore and Majdan were received by mail in the firm's “Pore” envelope and the head of the Maceev TRC “Union” - Natalia Zacharchenko and the editor-in-chief of the Odessa Trk “Real-Information” - Svetlana Fabrican. The letters in question say: “We inform you that the Mayan site and the Pora civil society company are continuing to work on the Black Paper of Elections project. As a result of monitoring violations of the 1st and 2nd rounds, we have to note that your name has been placed on the list of alleged violators of the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act and has been entered into the electronic database of the most active violators. In this regard, we believe it is important to warn you that, with the help of our activists, it is our intention to strengthen personal monitoring of all your actions, as from the day before the day of the vote, also on election day. We would like to inform you that if new information is received on your violations, your name will forever be entered in the database - “Black Book of Ukrainian Elections” and you will be brought to justice.” These are just the facts that have become known. How many more journalists were threatened? This organization allows itself to replace the courts. Furthermore, the member of the National Broadcasting and Television Board, Vitaly Shevchenko, has not only forgotten the ethics of human relations, but also allows himself without trial and investigation to publicly accuse the TRC of crimes that it has not committed. Moreover, in non-compliance with the rules governing requests from the Nacsovét on the form of a government telegram, and not on the form of the Nacsovét signed by the People's MP, Shevchenko, dated 28 November, requested the TRC to submit video recordings of the air on 28 and 29 November. In our view, the above-mentioned Nacsvet staff have all the signs of corruption and the signs of censorship. On 20 January, at a meeting of the National Television and Broadcasting Council of the TRC, Ukraine received a warning that it could be judged otherwise than to prosecute the objective coverage of political developments in Ukraine. A special term is now emerging in Western European countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, School. To prepare, that's how the Sietch sends Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u149	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. You know, that's it. Our theme of the speech, but I can't stop for at least two minutes, half a minute at the forerunner's speech. It's a company that's about to start. The businessmen, the oligarchs, the criminals who robbed the entire period of government, who used the state as their own pocket, with their sticky fingers, kept going into the state budget, now they're thinking, you know, a new opposition. So you look at this opposition that weighs as much as one part of the population of Ukraine that it's ripped apart, and you believe, really, the boys have suffered and now they're still suffering. That's how much it takes to have the nerve to convince someone who's chasing them right now. In fear the eyes are large, but we need not assume that we will act in the same way that you acted against us. Don’t worry, you won’t have to suffer the way you made us suffer. Your family will not be persecuted, but there will be no bottles of incendiary mixture flying in your windows. And your journalists won't be taken to the Tarastian Forest. Because that's what you and your regime did. And you will be dealt with objectively, completely balanced by the relevant judicial authorities, the investigating authorities, if anyone deserves it. Everything else is a lie about someone being chased, I think, a little questionable. I think it's just a waste of her advertising, and that's how no one sees it except those who create it. So basically, I think it was just an advertising tool. In order to say something else that society needs, society needs to be cleansed. We really need to realize right now that there will be a lot of words and words about who is the opposition, who is not. I think the whole concept of opposition is when a group of people who are opposed to power say that 75 percent are not divided by what they do, but 25 percent are divided by what we do. Today's so-called "opposition," which is now trying to rub his fist in his cheeks, erasing crocodile tears by a hundred percent, is not going to share what the people are doing and will be done by the people's president, which opposition can be talked about. You stand in the position of enemies, enemies of Ukrainian and Ukrainian states, it is your party members who have torn Ukraine apart and tried to federalize it and federalize it until now. And I'm convinced that Ukraine's path is still straight and simple. We'll still be in NATO, we'll still be in the EU, we'll still be a flowering, big, powerful, powerful state, no matter how weak your powers stop progress and society. You can’t just point out that someone has untied his cords, stopped his progress, and you can’t do that, and no one has been able to do that. No one has ever won one’s own nation. The people always won, he won this time and will prove that he won forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u150	Instead of Sietch’s word, Karmazin has. The rabbit John passes the word to the silent man.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u151	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's Block of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The reason for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the reasons for the unsatisfactory state of the public procurement system and to verify the possible abuse of office positions was the disadvantages of a number of ministries. We want the whole society to know what questions are being asked by the commission, such as the Ministry of Health. And let everyone know how Minhvod's leadership will respond. Is it true that the civil servant of Minstrav Horomoszko was one of the directors of the commercial bank of the Black Sea Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which became one of the main financial partners of the Ministry of Health between 2003 and 2004. The head of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Klimenko Volodymir Mikolaiovich, was one of the leaders of the Open Shareholders Association of the Crimean Depository, who was the founder of this bank. Is it true that between 2003 and 2004 he worked as one of Minister Podejev's assistants? The question of the monopoly status of the Black Sea Bank for Reconstruction and Development as the Insurance Bank of most financial transactions has been repeatedly raised. Naturally, such status could not have been legitimized by the domestic legal instruments. Yet he could have de facto. It's about the technology of corruption. Only complete information about those who have won the IHO tenders over the past two years can put a dot in this matter. Because there can be no such thing as the vast majority of the winners chanced to make their agreements in one bank, and there is little known bank that doesn't, even in 20 leading banks in Ukraine, that is, the CBRD. In the context of this issue, we want to get to know the list of winners in the 2003-2004 tenders. One of the acts of verification by the CEA contains information that in 2003, due to the breach of the deadlines for the execution of the budget for tenders, the budget was held for a long time in commercial banks at the expense of commercial enterprises. Is it true that one such bank was co-owner of the Ministry of Health? Who, specifically, of the officials of MOH initiated the resignation of a professor at the Crimean Medical University of Babanin? Who specifically initiated and organized the opening of tenders in December 2004 for the entire fiscal year 2005? When, Mine-economy clearly prohibited any purchase activity, not to mention that the 2005 budget was not adopted at the time of these tendering processes. Who specifically listed the purchase of drugs for the treatment of children with cancer and occo and osmatologic diseases? Approval by decision of the standing tender committee headed by Mr. Zagradni. If it's completely counterproductive to the treatment of children. So let's face it, there's a lot of questions for the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. And we're waiting for answers to come up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u152	Yes, please, Paul the Silent instead of John the Rabbit. Prepare the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A couple of virgins passed a bill in the session hall, initiated by Alexander Alexander Moroz. This is a law under number 3410/8 amending the Ukrainian Language Act in the Ukrainian RSR. On the rostrum, this led me to come up with an unprecedented speculation about this subject of the man who claims to be left-handed today in the executive power, particularly in the ideological sphere. I know that the faction of socialists has offered a whole range of deputies to positions of responsibility in the humanitarian sphere of education, cultural, humanitarian. And I think the whole spectrum would want to be covered with an approach that can be called anti-Ukrainian and anti-constitutional today. This bill actually legitimizes the state of Russian language that became the object of speculation during the election race. The election is over, and we need to talk about the violent situation in which the Ukrainian language is located. The Constitutional Court placed a dot on December 14, 1999, which stated that the position of the part of article 10, which states in the national language of Ukraine, should be understood to mean that Ukrainian as a national language, I remind everyone, including the socialists, is a mandatory means of communication throughout Ukraine in the exercise of powers by the authorities of the State and local self-government - language of acts, works, business, documentation, seals, etc. and other public spheres of social life, as defined by the law and the Constitution, since the 10th article is the norm of direct action. Why Alexander Alexander offers to do everything the other way around, all in spite of the Constitutional Court ruling, which is final and can't be accused, as it was written in this, I would say, sentence, in order that this topic should never be violated and give no opportunity to speculate on this particular problem. I'd like to make it clear that you can't sell your mother's stuff to get a percentage in the east of Ukraine. Dear friends, we have stood with you side by side for what? To help implement the Yanukovich program? We can't do that. And we're going to do everything we can to end these speculations. On the other hand, I wanted to invite everyone to the Teacher’s House today, where we honor each other at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u154	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Zubov. I can't see the dirt. The baby's giving it away. We've got to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u155	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block faction, Father's Party. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I have never had the pleasure of speaking at the conclusion of a session of the Supreme Council as it is today. With such a unique opportunity, I would like to congratulate all of us present in the hall, all of our radio audiences, all our voters with victory, the great victory of truly popular President Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko. Once again, I would like to take this unique opportunity to sincerely thank, well, on my behalf, as the head of one of the district headquarters, the people who worked, and during the hours they worked in extremely difficult political and physical conditions on the ground, especially in the eastern part of our country. I thank the members of my team in the 58th constituency, the town of Slavjansk, Slavyansky region, and all those who, despite the greatest difficulties, have come close to this great victory. However, I would like to draw your attention and everyone who listens to us, to what the new President, the new Government, is expected, people are simply waiting for real, concrete cases, and they do not want to expect any improvement in life anywhere in the far future, they are waiting for today, tomorrow already to improve the quality of life. And that's right. Therefore, the new President, the new Government, his entire team will have to work very seriously, intensely, under incredibly difficult conditions, because the legacy is indeed left very difficult. I would like to draw your attention to the speciality of the current presidential electoral campaign, which is that, for the first time in Ukraine's recent history, it has been accompanied not only by ideas but also by separatist actions. I'm a Russian man, I've lived my entire life in Ukraine, but I love this country very much, I love the Ukrainian people, and I think that the forces that have dared to throw separatism into society must be fully responsible under the legislation in force. I'll tell you more. Those who have called for secession and who have carried out specific actions must be brought to justice and under a very difficult article for treason. If we do not put an end to these separatist sentiments, we will face very severe trials, very difficult trials, and we cannot allow that. And the last thing I'd like to say. To those who seem to have lost suddenly, I want to say, ‘My friends! It's okay. You've lost, and you're learning not only to live in a pluralism of opinion, you're learning to lose. Ukraine is our own, and we must all work for the good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u156	Yes, Gruzev is gone. Pussy gives the word to Gapoczki. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Everyone knows that, of course, during the process of forming a new government, the timetable of all political solitaires is no longer surprising. In order to occupy the warm chairs themselves or to put their people in them, some of our colleagues do not ignore anything, allowing themselves to sound from this high rostrum the various nonsense that interested persons may give them before they go out to the rostrum, whose style of work they have. The work of these deputies coincides with the work of all the famous Dr. Goebbels, who said that "the most incredible lie, the more likely it is to believe it." One of our colleagues, a colleague of Bartkiva, has encountered such a disaster twice in a row from this rostrum that sounds systematic and slanders the State Committee of Material Reserves, personally on the head of Pesocke, the head of this committee. The facts are so distorted in the published data that there is no need to stop them and waste time. There is no doubt in the Alliance's parliamentary group that, by carrying out a certain commission to undermine the positive image of the State Reserve and its leadership, the order has not only political but also economic ground. The point is that in many of these matters, he covers his personal commercial interest with a parliamentary mandate, with slander at the head of the State Committee, as personally responsible for the work. Disgruntled and offended have become many who, after the committee’s former leadership, used the government traps as their own. Obviously, many today do not like the stable and effective work of the Ukrainian State Committee, and they have long wanted to distribute Omrian portfolios. Today, too far away, it should be stated that alongside the deputies who are really patriots of the state, there are those who are ordering appropriate commercial structures, trying to harm the work of the State Committee. I have in my hands documents that record appropriate references to all the authorities: both the NBO Council, and the Attorney General's Office, and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the government, and all the relevant structures that have been in place for six months, here are the lists of documents that have been addressed, initiated by the State Committee for this work. And I, in support of specific documents, want to hand over, Adam Ivanovich, these documents for the protocol that this work was conducted by the committee, the initiative was fought before these facts were only born, but they were not given a proper assessment. Therefore, I ask the Committee on MPs and the Rules to apply the relevant factors to our colleague accordingly to the slander and conduct of our fellow MP who has worked twice in Parliament and today works in the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u158	Yes, please, Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u159	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Kiev. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, I wanted to publish today an open letter from a group of Ukrainian national deputies elected in Kiev to the Kiev City Head, members of the Kiev City Council, and citizens of Kiev. It says that the rule of the Kuchma regime will enter Ukraine's history as a page of the most disgraceful looting of people's good and the discrediting of government and local self-government. Sadly, these processes also touched the cities of Kiev. In particular, this is about the illegal and immoral removal of urban land from the Desert of Vodice, Conchi-Sasleep, Phoofania and other urban recreational zones and their transfer to various legal and physical persons, mostly from structures that served the bankrupt power. We know that Kyivrada has approved this decision by providing for large areas of land through state administration of such prominent operators in paws as Gavrish, Shufric, Roadside, and many others. Among those desiring to reach areas of one hectare, most of the deputies of Kyivrada and the city’s leaders. We believe that such actions do not suit the interests of the Chinese and we demand that all decisions of the Kyivrada concerning the transfer to ownership or the long-term lease of land in the Vodice Desert area, which were approved in 2004, and reviewed in other areas. Then we consider it necessary to announce a competition for the creation of community rest centres for adults and children with water parks, horse sports bases, sports zones, and so forth. In the event that these decisions are cancelled, there will be no need to announce the local referendum on these issues, which we intend to initiate in Kiev as national deputies elected by the Chinese. This letter was signed by Vladimir Bondrenko, Boris Bezpalij, Mikola Tomenko, Mikola Polishtuk, Sergei Teryohin, Leonid Czernovecki, Valery Lebedivsky, and Yuri Orobec. I'd like to go to many members of the Supreme Council, and I'm not interested in any faction today. Take a voluntary step toward the return of the areas that have already been planted today, and someone has begun to build a large fence around them. I think the Chinese will never agree that the Desert Water pearls, as well as the Phoephania, which was reeked today by the structures of the former prime minister to create his own nest, as well as the Conchi Zaspas, would be available and would be behind the parks of those who, temporarily reaching power, would use them only for their own enrichment. We think that the market value of one hectare of land and Conchi Zaspa and Desert Water is at least one million dollars. And that would allow you to fill out those gaps in the budget left by the Yanukovich government for the new government. This government, after plundering the country, is now stretching new and new social laws, describing how well it is living in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u160	Please, Boki. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u161	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I think we all feel that society in Ukraine is filled with negatives. That negative is political. And among these negative trends, provocation comes first. Provoking serves one purpose: the division of society. We socialists have already made a statement on this matter. Language problems, religious problems, regional problems, and so forth were the reason for the rift. There are speculations about national feelings. Yesterday, I watched a rally in Donetsk, and it was very sad to hear people's indignation around issues that actually don't exist. There was and there is no opposition that now goes to power, neither hatred nor evil intentions, to any region, to any nation. You're just being deceived by good people. Speculation from this rostrum is now taking place, especially around the draft Language Law in Ukraine, authored by Alexander Frost. I would like to state with full responsibility that he was taken with the care of the fate of the Ukrainian language and at the same time the fate of all the language groups in Ukraine. And if he is proposing the status of the official language for the language groups in the regions or cities as decided by the local representative bodies, with mandatory compliance with the status of the national Ukrainian language, it should be understood that this is not a threat to the language of the state, but it creates a favourable climate for all languages and soothes public opinion, eliminates various kinds of speculation around the language issue and the fate of the Russian language in Ukraine in particular. No more, no less, and you don't need political hysteria and provocation around it. Article 6 of the new draft is entirely in line with the Constitution and the well - known decision of the Constitutional Court. And do not create an image of an enemy where there is no one who has done more for Ukraine than those who speculate on it today. Both provocations and others must be stopped by the new authorities. I consider it a real provocation against the new President of Ukraine to take the initiative of a group of people close to him to put him on the Nobel Peace Prize for the Orange Revolution. Such initiatives may tickle someone’s five, but they only discredit Ukraine and the President and the revolution itself. And the experience in this matter is, let's mention Gorbachev, the intentions of Kravczuk to receive this award and the famous phrase of Olesia Potter, who claimed that he would not give him a potato medal. Why, and who needs such advances on inauguration and actual results? Why is this hysteria around the political homestead? The social atmosphere needs to be freed from provocations, both on the one hand and on the other. Let us not give Ukraine the image of an immature lady who enjoys biting and chasing rewards. Ukraine and all its citizens must be worthy of their history and their future today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u162	Please, Rudzkowski. Get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u163	Rudzkowski, the Socialist faction. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished listeners! Indeed, the issue that divides Western and Eastern Ukraine is a matter of language. He's been artificially introduced into our society. During the electoral campaign, a candidate from power vowed to enforce and enact the law. But as soon as the election campaign was over, they forgot about it. The Socialist faction and the Socialist Party, in their programme, have one of the main provisions of the adoption of Russian as an official language in Ukraine. This is no violation of the status of the Ukrainian State language. We believe that Russian citizens, citizens who speak Russian, especially older ones, in eastern Ukraine, should be given the opportunity to communicate with public authorities and feel that they are full citizens of our country. As candidate, Aleksandr Alexandrovich Moroz did not raise the issue in order to avoid political speculation. But immediately after the end of the electoral company, he was the initiator of the law. I appeal to you, members of the people, to enact this law without delay in March. And thus signal the citizens of Ukraine to the East that those who won the electoral company on time. They don't separate, they don't want to say that eastern Ukraine is the second class. Everyone must vote, both socialists and communists, and “Our Ukraine”, this law must be signed by Victor Yushchenko and show that he is the President of the entire country, of the entire Ukrainian people. Today, we must, by adopting such laws, adopt social laws to show that the new power came, not to divide, to distribute, but to protect the interests of the common people. And that we have today rejected the proposal to reduce the minimum pension again, we have done the right thing, the new Government, if it is to fill the budget. will be able to increase pensions this year and the minimum wage. We must review the acceptance that has been carried out in violation of the law. We must return the Krivoroztal to public property, Oblenergo to public property, all facilities that are privatized in violation of legislation. And then there will be money to carry out social tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u164	The word has the national MP of Baranowski, to prepare the Noshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u165	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I am delighted that in recent years large officials and a group of national deputies have come to love their homeland. Regrettably, this love came only to lands within the city of Kiev or at special, so to speak, resorts in Ukraine that have virtually no price. When my colleagues talked today about the land near Kiev, in Concha-Zaspí costs about a million dollars, and who was picked up by 13 hectares, who were five, who was three, who paid, respectively, a penny, I have a question today. The press recently reported that Gurzuf Sanatorium had been purchased in Crimea for 4.5 million dollars when 21 million government money had not been recovered from the State Budget in the past two years. The question is, How could this happen in Ukraine? Were they the hosts or were they the temporary people who only see Ukraine in how to stretch it? Next question, the 28th of December hotel "Ukraine", where many of the people's deputies lived, getting accordingly. While waiting for housing, the people who work at this hotel on December 28 received a message that they are all getting out of their jobs, yes. The hotel has practically been stolen and a closed stock company has been formed in its place. Tell me, how could this be done in such a number of days during the election campaign? This all leads to what's in Ukraine, what's going on is such a vicious "soul" -- state administration, and what anyone wanted to steal was going through this criminal organization. Look, as they say, he's long gone beyond the Ukraine that ran this same DUSS, but the thing is, as we see him, he's still alive today. I don't understand why the Attorney General's Office is acting like this, because there are all the means to stop this rip-off shaft, why Mr. Chechetov is acting like this. If you were not afraid of the law, you would be afraid of God, and you would be afraid of your constituents of Ukraine. Why does today’s second presidential term, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, who still had it, still have some weights in place to stop this whole raid? And the question is, I can't help but stop speaking. One who wants to accuse the faction, particularly the Moroz, of playing something, in Ukraine has become such a reality that half the population speaks Ukrainian, half the Russian. And in one day no one will learn Ukrainian if he has spent his life speaking Russian. And nothing prevents us from having the official status of Russian. This does not compromise our national language at all. So let's not do any speculation on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u166	Please, Mikola Nightingale, Democratic Ukraine. Prepare the Hare of Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u167	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 Gluhov constituency, Sumstina, Democratic Initiative. Dear Chairman, national MPs, voters! In exercising my parliamentary powers, I have repeatedly used this rostrum to protect the rights of my constituents for parliamentary inquiries, especially the Cabinet of Ministers, senior officials. This is also the question of keeping constant prices for the most important goods and services for the population, the issue of rail transport, the provision of services to government agencies, and so forth. And I received the right response and comprehensive answers only from First Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov. However, these are pleasant exceptions, not a system of government work, a government apparatus. For example, constructive work with Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko has unfortunately failed. In all due respect, I have to tell the truth. The last requests of the National Deputies were forwarded to the relevant ministries. And as a result, the receipts. It's a problem in particular. In October 2004, I urged local authorities, representatives of public organizations, citizens. The district of Suma district was asked by the government to help solve the problems of the disposal of thousands of tons of poisons, which were brought from all over the area in 1975 to the train station in white. The area. The composition of unfit and banned pesticides is located on the border with Russia in the concept of the Right River. In fact, there are similar warehouses in the part of my district, a town-type village, other parts of the county. I did not receive any answers from the government. In response, the minister of environmental protection confirmed the existence of this disaster. The rooms where yadchemics are stored for 30 years are in an emergency, some of the poisons are completely under the open sky without protection. And not a word about the prospect of eliminating this environmental disaster, the danger to the environment, and the inhabitants of border areas. What are we waiting for? Explosion, mass population poisoning, or a note of protest from the Russians? Dear John Grigorovich, I am addressing the government for the second time with this problem. As the highest official, you may be entrusted with a parliamentary request from the Ministry, but you must make a personal decision on it. The government is not a mailbox. Please return to the problems of the recycling of jadechemistry, both in a particular case and in Ukraine as a whole. And the last. Winning as well as losing should be worthwhile. Therefore, Adam Mikolaiovich, please make a note of the people's deputies who are using this rostrum to overthrow society, calling for disputation for political beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u168	Unfortunately, there's a different MP who can say what he wants. Yes, the rabbit passes the word to Shurma, please. And there's one more minute. Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u169	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[United]] Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP is making a formal statement to the new authorities regarding the cessation of a brutal political terror that has been unleashed unheard of against Ukrainian citizens for voting or openly supporting another candidate to the Presidents. [[united]] Many acts of harassment, intimidation, and persecution have, unfortunately, been a terrible sign of the election campaign. On the revolutionary Maidan there were talks about freedom of life for everyone, regardless of their political views, and beyond Maidan there was persecution and enthralling. The region of Lviv was particularly affected by this, including the Lviv region. The Lviv Regional Organization of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. There have been reports of the actions of supporters of ideas belonging to our Ukraine. [[united]] Many of the homes of members of the party, and too many secretaries of the rajkoms and miscnoms, who insisted on leaving the party, the disbanding of the party were massive, systemic, and, therefore, we claim, organized. The picket has also been experienced by those heads of the district state administrations who are not members of the SDPU(o) that are non-partisan but had their positions. All that matters is the sealing of the cabinet and later the car of the head of the district government of the Kamyankobu district government. And this is the district where two deputies were elected from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, Peter Oilynik and Oleg Tajnibok. We are particularly concerned about the threat of physical strife against the one party. Such a manifestation of a new democracy was faced by our secretaries of the City and Drodobic and Borislav City Organizations. Perhaps, as a "democratic" society should take the following facts as well. The publication at the meeting of the Lviv District Council of the Coalition, the so-called National Democratic Forces of Lviv, called upon the members of the SDPU to leave the ranks and disband the factions in the Paradise and the Lands. Mass organization of the signature assembly for calling off the deputies of all councils elected by the SDPI(s). Indignantly, we perceive the facts of involvement in the political opposition of children. In addition to the image of the peers, the very clever actions of adults have been added. In one of the villages of the Premyslán district, children whose relatives voted for Yanukovich were forced to stand on their knees for an hour and pray for the sins of their parents. The opposition to the local "Our Ukrainians" is not forgiven anywhere. That's how we explain the burning of the cars of the First Deputy Secretary of the Mukatske SDPU(o) instead of the usual bullying. John Chuborek and his brother. The lawkeepers simply do not respond to the event, and they ignore the statement made by the Secretary of Zakarpatski total SDPU(o) It's about trying to infiltrate his apartment illegally. There's no open case this afternoon. I would like to address my fellow countryman, Andrew School, who spoke earlier and said that these persecutions continue. What's worth interviewing the head of the Lviv District Council of Michael Sindak on the newspapers of the Galician Star? One and a half pages with calls for banning one of the political forces, like, with an example, as it was done in its time with the Communist. These are not isolated cases. And if we don't call it family, addresses, then for one reason or another, there will be another knock and question to those people tomorrow: Have you done the right thing? Today, from this rostrum, I highlight the issue of why, during the Orange Revolution, Victor Yushchenko called for a draft Decree on the Rights of Opposition. This project is to be implemented immediately, from the first days when he becomes President. I hope that when Yushchenko becomes President, those people who are part of his environment will not follow the example of the repression that the Ukrainian people experienced in the early 900s experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u170	Yes. The poultice is gone. Please, Phydenka. Get ready for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u171	Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian company. I want to do social programs, social protection for workers, including my constituents today. I tend to reproach those who tell me that from the start, we need to put the economy to the right level, and then make money, and then run social programs. I know that. And I follow that principle. We all see and understand that social programs are always going to be, are and will be the face of all governments and presidents. Today, there was a heated debate in the session room about the implementation of the promised social programs, the government that is not yet there, and the president who is not yet there. What's going on? It turns out that there was a promise on the orange Maidan, and Victor Yushchenka's program promises a great deal in terms of social protection. People, frankly and frankly, have to say, there were many and not only in Kiev, but in other cities, they have believed what really is today and, as Victor Andriyovich said, choose me, and tomorrow you will wake up in another state. So, dear friends, the election has already taken place, the inaugural truth has not been given to the President, it will take place on Sunday. And on Sunday at 12 o'clock we're going to have a real legitimate president in Ukraine. And you have to think that he's going to do what he promised. Unfortunately, what we have heard in the session room today brings great sadness and robs us of confidence that these social programs will be implemented. So let's say the minimum pension, 284 has. Everything is already being done to ensure that this pension is no longer available. And we're honourable voters, and I want to tell you that for 2005, the living minimum was 423 bracelets. So in this budget, your pension should be not 284, but 423. And at this figure, even the representatives of our Ukraine stood in their own time. Before the elections took place, they voted actively. Now they're absolutely as actively giving up that number, saying there's no money in the budget for it. The same can be said of the military pensions discussed today. Well, only one member of "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of the Zibank bill and so on. What do they promise us in return? Promise in return. This Professor Cherniak, he, I respect him for always thinking he's done the right thing. What we are promised in return for the firmness of what will be done is a illustration. Do you understand? Well, for voters who may not fully know the word, it's exclusion, which means, after some checking of those people, government officials who work in government apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Orzhachowski, Solomonine is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u173	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, colleagues, voters. Several times because of statements from the rostrum, I had to break the problem of preserving and protecting the historical monument in honor of the soldiers of the liberation of the city of Zurich, in Hersonian. The government that leaves the political arena on December 23rd last year, without considering the opinion of veterans, the local court, despite the fact that the country is preparing to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the great victory, decided and allowed the Herson government to move the cannon monument from the center of the city to the park zone. By such a decision, government officials have deeply offended those involved in the war and have made concessions to the rightful forces and their spiritual followers, no less so than wanting to serve. Without permission to dismantle the local monument on January 15, this year, an act of vandalism in relation to a historical monument that reflected the memory of three and a half thousand dead Soviet soldiers who liberated the city of Taburi during the war. The organizer of the monument’s destruction was the governor of the local autocafal Orthodox church. Using the weekend with the associates, individual city council deputies and members of the Cossack Forest Basket, a metal fence and an anchored chain were broken, raised by the crane as a symbol of liberation, set to honor the 40th anniversary of the liberation of the city from German-Fashistic invaders. With tears in their eyes, veterans accepted such news. To the head of Parliament, the Herson District and the Republican Veteran Organization, the national deputies are receiving numerous telegrams of indignation demanding that the antiveteran decision of the government be lifted. Otherwise, our parents intend to show public disobedience. Veterans also appeal to Mr. Yushchenk to help his fellow thinkers not to take the first presidential steps out of disrespect for the symbols of war. It should be remembered that each day of war for its participants was a time of trials, heroism for the future state. The signatures of the inhabitants of Tsurupinsk, and several thousand of them, indicate the requirement to restore the monument in its original form at the expense of those who destroyed it. On the other hand, the myth of Yushchenk’s assurances about the political and religious ties between the West and the South is unfolded. Other abuses of orange power must be in line. It is also fair to require the Attorney General’s Office to establish the rightfulness of the above-mentioned decision by the executing authority, the actual ownership of the land area around which there has been a dispute, the discovery of a criminal case involving perpetrators of a crime. To my conviction, the prospect of Ukraine is disheartening. Instead of respecting their parents and mothers, the resurgence of the moral economy is destroying the peace of society, its historical past. This must be the real face of the authority that came, the understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u174	Yes, please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u175	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots! The Bible’s Viewpoint: “Do not be anxious over anything, but do not be anxious over 3 I had to apply to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, for an opportunity to speak to me at the morning meeting on 21 January 2005, in connection with the dissatisfaction with the replies of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on 18 January, the Ukrainian Security Service on 31 December and the Interim Investigation Commission on the question of the situation of poisoning the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Yashtenak Andriyovich, on 12 January. On my parliamentary request about the conditions and conditions of the collection of blood and other biological substances from the patient Yashchenk Viktor Andriyovich, the conditions for storing and transporting the selected samples from the Austrian private clinic "Rudolffinerhausen" to the analytical centres in the Netherlands and other countries, the reliability of the measurements in the named samples of the substance of toxic answers I got zero. The answers I received testify to the following. First of all, there are no official documents on the fact that Yuschenk Viktor Andriyovich has been poisoned, although appropriate requests at the interstate level for the Austrian private clinic Rudolffinerhouse and the Dutch analytic laboratory of dioxins have been made. The second, ill Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich and his political team have been de facto avoiding cooperation with the country's listed state institutions, i.e. sabotage such cooperation. So I ask the patient to fulfill his pre-election promise to the Ukrainian community that after the victory in the presidential elections he will announce all the conditions he knows to poison him and the names of the customers and performers of this shameful action. Moreover, I ask the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, to highlight the information mentioned before the inauguration act on January 23, this year. Otherwise, his moral virtues and the right to speak from all the Ukrainian people will be subject to reasonable doubt, especially since Viktor Andriyovich was elected only 40 percent of the votes of Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote. Please consider this statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a parliamentary request on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the situation surrounding the poisoning of President Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u176	In accordance with the Constitution, the President becomes a person, one who is chosen, after taking an oath. Before that, he's not the president. Yes, two minutes, please, Black and Cadyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u177	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The election's over, forget it. We're all Ukrainians, and we all have to work for Ukraine. We're all Ukrainians as a political nation. The new President of Ukraine is the President of all Ukraine, not a separate part of Ukraine. Did Bush become president only of the states in which he won Kerry? Yashchenko defeated Yanukovich with a much bigger breakout than Bush Kerry. As we know, Kerry welcomed Bush’s victory after his election in the morning, not expecting final results until the tenth percent. And this is a display of a high political culture that we lack. On the other hand, the display of a low political culture is an act of vengeance against the victors over the conquerors. There are no winners and no winners. Democracy won, the Ukrainian people won. There is power and there is opposition. The opposition is the most reliable resistance to power. We need to overcome opposition as an enemy; it will also be an expression of a high political culture. Speculation about the two Ukraine - east and the West cannot help but be exasperated. In fact, there are two Ukraines, but not East and West, but National Democratic and Criminally-oligaric Ukraine. Now the question is, who's going to beat who? The biggest challenge for the new government is to be at the level of the high social expectations that exist in society. This is the biggest test for the President, for the government and for Parliament. And it all depends decisively on whether we can form a new quality of power, not just a new power, new people, but a new quality of power. And that's the only way we're going to be able to solve those complex economic, social.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u178	Thank you. Please, Leonid Kadenuk and we're done. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, recently there have been problems with the pension problems of military pensioners, which have led to a generally fair indignation on their part. Well, in this regard, I think it is appropriate to remind the military pensioners that, in order to resolve this acute social problem, on June 15, 2004, our committee initiated the adoption of the law of Ukraine amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Chief Military Staff Unit of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons Who Set a New Order for the Calculation of Military Pensions. Under the new rule of the law, pensions are calculated on the basis of the level of cash security with the last establishment, redundancies, taking into account the corresponding salaries at the post, the military title, the percentage of retirement allowance, monthly additional types of financial security and premiums established by law. The Law took effect on January 1, 2005. This law establishes that persons who have previously been granted pensions under this law will receive pensions of 50 percent from 1 January 2005 and 100 percent from 1 January 2006. Regrettably, however, article 39 of the State Budget Act establishes a limited basis for the 2005 budget for the recalculation of previously appointed military personnel, persons in charge of the head office, the regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others, as opposed to the requirements of article 43 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, which provides for the recalculation of pensions for previously released persons, based on an extended basis for calculating pensions, taking into account the actual level of payment of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-21-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question of "different" is as close as the morning meeting of the Supreme Council, which I declare closed. Tomorrow we work in factions, committees, and groups according to accepted changes to the calendar plan. On Sunday, January 23, at 12 a.m., a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin. Good luck.
