ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:45]] They registered in the 417 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Masenka Alexander Mikolaiovich. Let us welcome Alexander Mikolaiovich, and wish him good health and fruitful success. Dear colleagues, the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 2nd plenary. Six issues of the agenda, eight bills, were discussed. As a result, one bill was adopted on the first reading as a basis, two bills were rejected, two bills were withdrawn, and three bills were repealed. Now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Karatumanov Oleg Juriovich from the MP's faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united and his membership in the Democratic Initiatives Group. On the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Rudenka Hennady Borisovich, from the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be discussed today at the February 3rd plenary meeting is distributed to you. With regard to the issue of giving consent to the appointment of Yulia Timoshenko as Prime Minister of Ukraine, if you have no objection, we will begin consideration of this issue at 12 o'clock. And now we're going to work according to the agreed schedule. A draft Decree on the election of Ukrainian National Deputies Vasiliev and Leluk as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Yes, please, the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary National Deputies, proposed today for consideration, draft Decree 6231 on the election of Vasiliev Andriyovich as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking and Leluka Olexija Volodymyrovich on the election of a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was introduced by the People's Deputy to Ukraine on 6 October last year, at the request of our Committee of 18 November 2004 on Rejection, were not included in the agenda and was not considered by the Supreme Council. So this is about the fact that the committee did not support this draft decision, which is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be defined on this issue. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u3	Now for the second time, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u4	And now and then?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question of the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Leluk Olexi Volodymirovic, elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy on 20 June 2004 as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has already been discussed at the meeting of the Committee on 22 September last year. And then the committee was supported by a draft decree made by the People's Deputies of Bogotir on September 10th last year, because at that time the quota for the representation of the Ukrainian delegation of the "Region of Ukraine" on the Committees of the Supreme Council was 2.8. And we have two representatives of this MP faction working on our committee today. However, when considering this issue at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on September 23rd last year, the project was not supported in the hall, and only 194 people's deputies voted in favour. At this seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leluk Oleksija Volodymyrovich, as a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is being raised for the first time. Today, the quota for the representation of the Ukrainian delegation in the Committees has been slightly reduced and it is 2.3, and in our committee, as I mentioned earlier, there are two representatives of the Ukrainian delegation today, namely that the quota has been used. Taking into account the above, the committee decided not to support the draft decision of the registration number 6231-1 of 21 January of this year by the Ukrainian National Deputy Komar Mikola Stepanovic. The Supreme Council, on the other hand, has to decide on this issue by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u7	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! Please mobilize for the vote. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Ukrainian national deputies Vasiliev and Leluk as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6231. Please vote. [[10:09:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. For reasons of three minutes, please. Please sign up. Vladimir Bondarenko, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u8	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, these bonds in the so - called bags, balls, and bags, make it difficult to resolve the issue. There were logical requirements for a quota to be used by one candidate. So let's vote separately. And I think that at least some of the problems we're going to solve today, and some of the other problems we're going to agree on. So let us not put this to the vote together. And I think it's going to be more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u9	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Raisa Vasilovna Bogatirirova, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Regrettably, the rule of the Rules provides for a total vote of 226 votes, in order for the Ukrainian People's Deputy, anyone who does not have a name, to be able to exercise the right to work on a committee. I am convinced that it is precisely today that we need to oppose even this norm and that we must put our beliefs to the vote, unite, and now are consolidated to vote and support these national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u11	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u12	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have some committees where our fellow national deputies fly like flies to honey, and in other committees, if they are assigned, they have never been convened by this Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, in that committee I represent on environmental policy, never have Volkov’s deputies, Antonyev. So I would like to say that the quota is broken and that we should not violate the Rules and Arrangements. And I would like to suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we move on to the next proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u13	Thank you. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing, first of all, the faction of our Ukraine, the BUT faction. Let's go on this momentous day, when we're already defining the ultimate core weights of power in the state, and we're joining in that this session should be effective. These are MPs who have been chosen in addition to the Supreme Council, they plan and they want to work in a direction that is professional, professional. So I'm asking you, let's not, you know, delay and interpret these quotas or anything but support these deputies. Let them have the opportunity to do this throughout the last year until the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u15	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, the time for communication is running out. In accordance with your suggestions, please pay attention! - I'll put to the vote each candidate separately and announce to which committee wants to go to work as Ukrainian national deputy. The first to vote is the proposal - pay attention! - on the election of Vasilyev Alexandr Andriyovich, Ukrainian national deputy elected in the one-man election district number 61, the faction "Regions of Ukraine" as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking. [[Donetsk Region]] Please vote. [[10:14:14]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The proposal in Decree 6231-1 on the election of Leluk Oleksija Volodymyrovich, the Ukrainian national deputy elected in a one-man election district number 151, the Poltavian region, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:14:55]] For 228 Decision taken. Let's move on to another question. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day of June 2005 on childlessness in Ukraine and how to overcome this phenomenon, registration number 6541, is being announced for consideration. Mr. Bogdan Volodymyrovich, please. Please give a brief argument to your draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The importance of our country’s problem of homeless children is confirmed by the fact that there are about 130,000 teenagers in preventive accounting who wander around, beggar, delinquency - prone, alcoholic beverages, and drugs. Outside the box, according to our information, more than 300,000 children. We're not that many, we're only 47 million. Think about that figure. The population is rapidly getting older, and the number of deaths exceeds the number of births. And that's why the problem of childlessness is the national security of our nation. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party believes that orphans, childlessness, carelessness and begging are primarily due to a lack of social attention to the number of problems faced by families and children. Disadvantage of troubled families, lack of control over the rearing of children in such families, and the growing lack of proper care for children. It requires improvement in the work involved in ensuring the right of every child to humane treatment. Thus, there is a need for a state policy on children, as a special socio-demographic group of society. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party has already taken a number of steps in this direction. Individually, our initiative was to adopt the Law, help with the birth of a child, double the living minimum — 846 dollars. We have billed the amount of help every month for 752 bracelets up to the age of 3 per month for children. A new form of assistance is a deposit fee for a newborn child with a percentage payment in order to obtain this amount in adults. Social measures, in our view, should greatly contribute to the problem of homelessness, the solution to the problem of homelessness. Unfortunately, we do not see the real results of executive power. And shame to us that there are hundreds of thousands of children in independent Ukraine who are beggars living on the street. It's a horror, and we see these facts with you every day in the streets. That's why the faction of the "One Ukraine" party, conscious of both its own and my personal responsibility, and our responsibility to the children with you, before our future, in front of all society and initiated this government day to develop a strategy: how to overcome this disgraceful phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u17	Thank you, sit down, please. Volodymyrovich. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, position of the Committee on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the relevance of the legislative definition of overcoming childlessness, especially in the context of the implementation of the poverty strategy, certainly does not call this room into question. Another question raises questions: What do we want to achieve on this day of government? I just want to express our concern, and I want to remind everyone that we have done it more than once. In December 2003, the Supreme Council of Ukraine held parliamentary hearings on this subject. On February 3, 2004, we adopted a corresponding decision by the Supreme Council. In November 2004, we listened to information from the government, the minister of social policy, Papiev, and the minister of Ukraine regarding the Longzhenko family. On April 18, the committee received a bill from Goshovsky’s colleague on the prevention of homelessness. We voted for him on October 6th in the first reading. Today, this bill is ready for adoption on second reading and in general. On January 14, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans. So today we have a workable array of legislative instruments, including acts that are not completed, and we don't report them, we don't summarize them. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour recommends that the draft Ordinance on the Government of Ukraine be rejected on June 14 at number 6541. The appointment will certainly be a session hall. In case the session room votes in favour of this regulation, we suggest that we make the following observations, change to paragraph 3. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the decree of the President of Ukraine is when you and I have made a decision after one of these hearings to renew the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth, Children and Young People. There's a President's decree that stipulates the terms of office. That's why we consider paragraph 3 to be a change. And the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism is the main committee. The Committee on Social Policy will certainly cooperate with the Main Committee. Once again, we propose that this committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, be identified by the Main Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? In line with the Government Day, the Government Day is held at the six-month plenary meetings of the Supreme Council every second Tuesday of 10 a.m. In addition, no more than two thematic issues may be included in the government’s day - to - day agenda. Now we have actually three draft government day decrees in June. I'll tell you what draft regulations are so that when you vote, they mean that one of the projects is not going to be considered if we vote in two. This is the first draft of the decree that Bogdan Hubsky reported on the problems of childlessness. The second draft of the decision concerns the problem of combating drug abuse in Ukraine. And the third project is proposed to hear -- the question of how to proceed with measures regarding Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. Please bear that in mind. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's Government Day in June 2005 on childlessness in Ukraine and ways of overcoming this phenomenon. Registration number 6541. Please vote. [[10:22:42]] For 264 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 30, Communist faction - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 34, National Agrarian Party - 8, SDPU - 21, "One Ukraine" - 22, SPU - 18, Block Timoshenko - 11, "Soyuz" - 8, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 8, "Democratic Ukraine" - 9, NDP - "Republic" - 6, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, "Centre" - 5, "Postfactional - 19. Decision taken. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in June 2005 on the strengthening of the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 6542. Bogdan Hubsky, the author of the draft decree, is invited to speak. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk will be speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The faction of the "One Ukraine" Party defined as one of its key tasks - the concern for the health of the nation, both spiritual and physical health. And that's why it's very important to look at this issue, which is obviously a complex one, because the drug situation in Ukraine is not easy. In the last five years alone, the number of drug addicts officially in health care institutions has increased from 75 to 122 thousand. According to experts, however, their real numbers exceed one million. This is not the case with alcoholics, for it is also a serious and complex drug - related disease. At the same time, most drug users are young people under the age of 30. And more and more, the problem is that it's getting spread -- it's using cheap drug surrogates. A particular concern here is that among drug users, a very large number of them are underage children. There has been a proportional increase in the number of crimes committed by drug addicts and drug addicts. That's about 10 or 15 grand. Crimes every year. On the average, one in seven crimes is drug related and a vicious cycle is created: drug crime. In those days, the country shuddered at a terrible crime in Vishnu, where drug addicts were killed, smothered four Ukrainian citizens. The situation is also extremely complex in a village where there are no adequate medical facilities and facilities at all. The problem of drug abuse also poses another very complex problem — the violation of the immunodeficiency virus, which is caused by an environment of drug injections. Therefore, when considering both the budget and other laws, we should pay particular attention to financing medical institutions. We have to admit that the medical technology of the facility is unsecured. Executive authorities do not always take steps to overcome this problem. Even in Kiev, mental hospitals and drug institutions are in a terrible state of misery. That's why the faction of the "One Ukraine" party is convinced that drug addiction cannot remain a problem of personality and law enforcement, it must become an object of special attention to the whole society. And so we are confident that the only way to deal with this problem is by working together. You know, as they say, the whole world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u21	Mikola Eframovich Polishchuk, head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! People's deputies who want to hold Government Day, parliamentary hearings on drug abuse have raised an extremely important problem. But what I'd like to say is that today it's close to how widespread drug use is. 80 percent of AIDS patients are drug addicts. So today it's not possible to deal with drug-specific issues and HIV-AIDS issues. Two years ago, in December, we held parliamentary hearings on HIV-AIDS. Drug addiction. Alcoholism." I would like this drug issue to be combined with the HIV-AIDS problem in Ukraine. Given that December 1st is the global day of the fight against HIV-AIDS, i.e. the plague of the 20th to the 20th century, I would like to ask the national MPs to hold these parliamentary hearings right in December 2005 so that it can be prepared and that it is resonant in the world of the problems that are going on around the world to combat this problem. To that end, I ask and the committee also asks the National Deputies to identify themselves and hold parliamentary hearings on HIV-AIDS. Drug addiction or drug addiction. HlV-AlDS is an integral part of the same disaster in Ukraine, to be held in the very first numbers of December this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee towards your reputation has been proven. But at the same time, I am forced to put to the vote a draft decree that was proposed by a group of national deputies whose initiative was announced by Bogdan Hubsky for the government's Day in June 2005 with the agenda "To increase the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine", registration number 6542. Please vote. [[10:29:20]] For 284 Decision taken. So by June of the month, we already have two thematic issues on government day. So the third draft of the ruling, which relates to the implementation of measures for Ukraine's entry into the WTO, cannot be considered. Then the project authors should propose a different date. A draft decree on the Government of Ukraine was announced in April 2005: “The social protection of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster and the occasion of the nineteenth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster”. Reporter to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Gennady Borisovich Rudenko. Please, Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Honorable colleagues in the international arena recognized and recognized Ukraine. Many people know Ukraine in Shevchenk, Kloczkovo, Klitschko, but many people in the international arena know Ukraine in Chernobyl, after this planetary catastrophe. Almost 20 years have passed since this event. April 26, 1986, is the day that came into world history. All this time, some three million people feel the consequences of their fate and health. The theme of last year's Chernobyl parliamentary hearings was, "Look to the Future." How effective is government policy to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster? What is the effectiveness of international assistance in this area? What are the plans of the new government to formulate a strategy to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster over a long period of time? What is the final result of the government’s desire to achieve? This is the main goal that we propose to consider on the date of the government on April 12. I'd like to draw your attention, my dear colleagues, to the fact that in recent years there has been a branch of a whole system that has cared for a complex of Chernobyl problems. The structure and authority of the State Committee to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster so far are unfortunately not defined. An analysis of the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations on the 18th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster and all previous ones shows the need to look for new ways to overcome its consequences, to develop a more effective system of government in the area of integrated solutions, above all, to social problems. The committee supported the draft decision, it was supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The only thing I want to point out is that there's been a mistake and we're proposing in the title of the solutions in parentheses the word "social protection of the victims of the consequences" to replace the words "complex problem of elimination of the consequences" because the problem is really not only the technological nature of Chernobyl but also the social one. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u25	Questions. Sign up. Three minutes, please. Well, please sign in. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u26	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Gennady Borisovich, I will certainly vote in favour of this government day, but I would like to ask you why only April 12th? Maybe we should ask earlier about the state of implementation of legislation on social and health and pension insurance. What is more, we know that the budget already has large gaps in the implementation of this legislation. So in April we don't get to the anniversary, we have to bet early. And has this committee calculated that after Government Day, there is no way to correct any mistakes that I have not yet seen in the program, anywhere to return to the normal security of these people, especially those who have suffered. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in general, if you take a Chernobyl problem, according to the 1991 law, it costs 12 billion a year. Each year, about 2 billion dollars are spent. So there's already an annual underfunding of about 10 billion dollars. Each year, according to a draft budget adopted by many governments, huge numbers of articles of the Chernobyl law have stalled. I don't know, and the committee doesn't know what the view of the new government is going to be on Chernobyl issues. So April why is chosen as the month of government day, because, first of all, we want people to be able to figure out the cities in this problem, responsible already, consciously, what kind of question they're going to take care of. My point of view is that, given that there will be no parliamentary hearings this year, and we plan to do them in 2006, we will be able to spend Government Day as a responsible government day, but including showing honor to the black people, showing that we are not forgetting their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u28	Mikhailo Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u29	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear reporter! About that date. I'll use my time and there's the next offer. Do you not think that these measures had to be combined with the measures being taken in Belarus, Russia, Kazakhstan in connection with the Chernobyl disaster? I want to remind you that the Chernobyl disaster is not only a disaster for these peoples, but also an unprecedented unification of efforts to eliminate an accident. So I know there are plenty of these roads in these countries. How do you think we're supposed to go to Unison with these countries that together have been able to cope with these woes in our Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that it doesn't bother each other. And the fact that Ukraine works with both Russia and Belarus and with the international organizations on Chernobyl is a fact. Not so good, it's also a fact, unfortunately. And that's a problem, including government. And the point is, the next one is the bill that I'm going to report on the 20th anniversary, where it's going to focus on joint coordinated action with our neighbors. And today I would also like to hear an answer from the Committee in April: What strategy are we going to continue to tell about the 12 billion in the Law every year and issue 2? Will We Change the Law? Whether we increase funding is the whole issue of responsible government, we will wait for April. So I propose to support April 12th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u31	Thank you. Gennady Borisovich, thank you, sit down. Well, as long as we vote. For reasons, I see they're desirable, write down three minutes of motivation, they're recording, three minutes of motivation. I'd like, my dear colleagues, to point out this is just a technical question we're accepting, we're not discussing the problem itself. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue of the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, because it is complex, the question that is being addressed by several ministries, the question of revenge: it is the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Social Policy, the Pension Fund, the Committee, the State Committee on coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, to be discussed at the bottom of the government, but literally in the near future. That is, by April, so that we can identify ourselves by the 19th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. So I propose that the committee be determined by the authors now by the date, literally, on March of the month. With the government knowing what to do and how to do it in a month. Thank you, that's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u33	Yes. Thank you. Sergey Drogunzov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u34	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, one line and one offer to you. A replica of this kind. We cannot ask about the elimination of the consequences of an accident or disaster on the Chernobyl AES, although the word is used in the committee itself. It's been a matter of hundreds of years. And the second. Well, nobody listens to what I'm going to be. The offer is for you, and you and my boss are talking. And a second offer. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we always have parliamentary hearings that coincide with committee meetings. And I can never go to these parliamentary hearings because the committee is sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u35	I see. We will have to provide for this issue in the Rules somehow. Indeed, it does. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u36	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Socialist Party and its faction will support this draft decision. And it needs to be looked at in a complex way, all the more so that we write about social protection for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. And here the question should not only be addressed in a complex way, but also include questions and international commitments, and the corresponding work and cost, the allocation of funds to cover, the use of them. I think it's a question that's going to be discussed on Government Day -- the question that today needs, and those who have suffered, and those who may suffer if they don't work at the right time to keep the sarcophagus, after deactivation of that area that is now around Chernobyl's nuclear power station. So the faction of the Socialists will support it. And we think it's a complex question. Thank you. Time's up. Replica, Osika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u37	Sergey Osika, faction and party "The One Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm very much asking you to put one very important question into this project. We made decisions to amend the budget in February of this year. CAES is in the so - called special budget fund. And since January, no wages have been paid to CHAES employees, which is dangerous: a nuclear facility. Please insert as a single entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the draft ruling. Where technical issues are involved in preparing for the consideration of this problem. Now we're not solving any other problems with this project. And I'd like to take that into account. As a result of the outcome of the review, this problem needs to be addressed. And relative to the changes to the February budget. Dear colleagues, let us not live with illusions. We have our last meeting on Friday. And then we work for three weeks in committees and districts. The government will only be formed. What changes to the February budget? We don't repeat these adjectives. Please, Paul Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party I would ask you not to let go of the international aspect of this problem. During our time working on this committee, we made a series of calls to the international community. It's not just our national problem, it's actually Ukrainian. It goes a lot beyond and beyond our parameters. And so the first thing I'd like to pay attention to is this aspect. And the second. By the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, it should be edited here, not until the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Paul Mikhailovich. This proposal of yours should be reflected in the next project -- 6525 -- when we talk about measures about the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Now we're talking about a government day, we need to make a technical decision. It's got to be taken into account, it's a very good offer. The committee head's closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that we want to correct some of the error in the editorial and not just the social protection of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster to be included in the decision, but to include a set of problems in the elimination of the consequences. There we also include international aspects, where we include social aspects and a number of others. And I agree with Mr. Silent, that both in the first and second draft of the decrees instead of the yearbooks, you have to write the yearbook, because that's probably more appropriate in the sense of the question. That's why it's the 19th anniversary, not the anniversary. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A motion for a committee to adopt the draft Decision is made to vote as a Decision on the Government of Ukraine Day in April 2005 on the social protection of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster and on the occasion of the 19th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Registration number 6524. Please vote. [[10:45:44]] For 263 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 39, Communists - 51, "Regions of Ukraine" - 42, National Agrarian - 25, SDPU - 0, "One Ukraine" - 2, SPU - 19, Timoshenko - 17, "Soyuz" - 12, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 5, "Democratic Ukraine" - 11, NDP, "Republic" - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 13, "Centre" - 2, "Centre" - 2. [[I'm reading pros.]] The draft Ordinance on Urgent Arrangements for Preparation for the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster is now under review. Registration number 6525. The rapporteur is the head of the Hennaday Borisovich Rudenko Committee. Please, Hennady Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u43	Thank you, well, as we continued the topic of Chernobyl, we discussed it. In fact, we ask you to support the draft decision on preparations for the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. We believe that the issue is too serious, too planetary and too international cooperation, and internally, it will matter to all mankind. Since these measures will not only take place in Ukraine, they will go under the auspices of the UN, they will go through many countries. Those who are familiar with the procedure of international action, and that is what this is all about, know that organizational measures of this magnitude begin in at least two years. Our committee began its preparatory work in a year and a half. We have received support from the government on this issue, interested central executive bodies, but. But unfortunately, we don't have an approved plan of action today, nor do we have an org committee, nor the funds promised by the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, we don't see in the budget. Belarus is taking the initiative, and Russia is coming up with proposals from the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the SND countries, and from us, unfortunately, still silent. The committee unanimously supported the project initiative, and we've already lost the organization to prepare the year. There is little time left to prepare. So we hope that both the Government Day, which is due to take place in April, and the next steps, will be smoothly misleading so that we will meet in full readiness on the 20th anniversary. Otherwise, the world will think that unfortunately there is no Chernobyl problem in Ukraine, and we will only be sending experts to other countries to share experiences, unfortunately there is such a psychological problem. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u44	Yes, Your Honor, there is a proposal to put this document to a vote and accept it as a basis. Yeah? Is there no objection? None. I'm voting on a proposal: a draft decision on urgent steps to prepare for the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Registration number 6525. Please vote. [[10:49:21]] For 313 Decision taken. If there are no warnings, you can put to the vote for. Please, Osika. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Sergey Osika, faction of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you said that the issues related to the budget should be dealt with in February, and that is correct. In the draft regulation that we just adopted as a basis, there's a line: return all the compensatory money, that's 700 million dollars -- that's a specific budget line. Let's remove it -- and we'll actually solve this issue in February, in the budget itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u46	What line is that, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u47	This is page two.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u48	There's only two and a half pages here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u49	Where we're talking about a committee to speed up the creation of a Committee of Circumstances. He's upstairs. Or the return of compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u50	Well, you're the one who read it! - Can you read it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u51	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u52	Well, you don't see the document, you make proposals. There's no such thing here. What are you talking about? I'm voting on the whole draft decision as a decision. Registration number 6525. [[10:51:30.]] For 296 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decree on the day of the Ukrainian government is under review. It was written here in June, and is now being proposed by the authors of the project on May 10, 2005, with the agenda of the daily "On the Progress of Action on Ukraine's Entry into WTO". Cassianov Sergei, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u53	Cassianov Sergey Pavlovich, faction of the National Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Section 6 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action "Meet People" states that one of its tasks in the area of integration into the world economy is to complete the negotiations with the WTO member states by the end of this year and to ensure Ukraine's entry into this international organization. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly given the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine a mandate to speed up the implementation of measures aimed at completing Ukraine’s entry into WTO. Yes, it was proposed that drafts and revisions of valid legislative acts and international treaties should be made available by a party to Ukraine in order to bring national legislation into line with the rules and principles of the GAT SOT treaty system and to implement a mechanism to protect the internal market, in accordance with the rules of this international organization. In view of what has been said, we consider it appropriate to propose an analysis of the implementation of the tasks facing the Government of Ukraine in this direction and to identify a set of priority measures that would allow timely completion of Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization. In connection with the changes in the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed to hold Government Day with the agenda of the "On the Move of Action for Ukraine's Entry into WTO" on May 10, 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u54	Yes, dear colleagues, are there any warnings on this matter or not? You don't? I can't see. There is then a request to put the matter to a vote. No warning? I'm betting on a vote of acceptance. Draft decree 6510 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in May. And if you're right, on May 10, 2005, "On the move to take action on Ukraine's entry into WTO." Please vote. [[10:54:19]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions, please. I'm reading pros. Our Ukraine -74, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 29, People's Agrarian Party - 26, SDPU - 6, Ukraine - 20, SPU - 1, Block Timoshenko - 13, Union - 10, Industry and Entrepreneurs - 5, Democratic Ukraine - 9, NDP, Republic - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 13, Center - 1, Postfaction - 13. A draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings "Ensure Children's Rights in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Protection of maternity and childhood." [[in April 2005]] But, dear colleagues, in April, we have two parliamentary hearings on the question: "The prospects for creating civil broadcasts in Ukraine" on the 13th and 20th: "Cultural policy in Ukraine. Priorities, principles and ways of implementing them." Then we can consider the question of what will be the June bids. Is there no objection? Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u55	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear voters! Or the greatest discovery, or perhaps the revelation of the last two months, has been the fact that we are convinced that we have unique children. We have learned that our young people are not lost in spite of the very unforgivable years that have passed through all of our societies, and we have found that in many cases they are better than us, because they believe in the ideals that we have left behind with you. In view of this, I propose that you consider supporting the parliamentary hearings that we have about them and them, about our children, about our young people and about them. Or in the entire history of our parliamentary system, we have had such fundamental, fundamental considerations about ensuring the rights of children in Ukraine. Yes, it was at the dawn of parliamentaryism in the 1990s. In 96, we had parliamentary hearings in connection with the 5th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Ukraine, we heard about its implementation. And with the rest, we're going to be looking at this issue now. You may agree, dear colleagues, that from time to time we turn to the problems of childhood. For example, today we are talking about drug abuse and AIDS, which is the most striking of our youngest generations and young people, we are talking about homeless people, we are talking about recovery. But, my friends, these problems that we are discussing as specific cases can be corrected by working on the main array of our young generation, our young people. That is why we have our parliamentary hearings. If we look at the results of the 2001 census, we'll see that, unlike the generations that are now 20 to 30 years old, we have children under 10 years of age and they are 2.5 times smaller than adults. This gives us reason to appeal once again to the Child Protection Act, which defines the protection of childhood as a national, strategic priority. In view of our children's provision of a sufficient standard of living for spiritual, cultural development, the main purpose of our hearing. We should eventually do an inventory of what's called Ukrainian childhood. We have to do this at least because we owe it to our children. And depending on what kind of people and citizens of Ukraine they will be, it depends on how we today fulfill our human and social responsibilities. I'm asking my colleagues to support this hearing in June, especially since June 1st, Children's Day, I hope for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any warnings against the fact that we would put this motion to a vote? None. Draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings, security is put to the vote children's rights in Ukraine, maternity and childhood protection in June 2005. Please vote. [[10:59:15]] For 318 Decision taken. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Health and Health Care Problems and Solutions for Ukrainian Citizens" has been announced for consideration. Suggested in March to consider. But, colleagues, in March, we can't discuss this issue, because on March 16th, there are parliamentary hearings on "On the legislative provision of the development and improvement of the beet-sugar complex in Ukraine" and March 23, "National Cinematography." Status, problems and ways to solve them." So Mikola Efremovich needs to decide on the date. We've already got six. We just voted. Yeah, well, we need to figure it out. We only have July. Let's see. We've been taking since July. We have a parliamentary hearing on July 6th. Let's go to July, then, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You all know the state of health today. Over the past five years, there has been more than twice as much funding for the sector. At the same time, the patient did not feel that way, nor did the doctor. And there's a lot of reasons for that. Above all, alongside insufficient funding, it is inefficient use of available resources, material, human resources and financial resources. Today, Ukraine has the largest number of doctors in the population of 10,000, 47.1 When Canada is 18, England is 16.6 per 10,000 population. And in cities such as Kiev, over 90, Donetsk, 83, Dnipropetrovsk, 80. At the same time There's absolutely no one to work in the villages, no one to work as a district doctor. Thus today, there is no motivation to work as a nurse in rural areas by local doctors, family practice doctors. In addition, there are a number of laws, including the Constitution of Ukraine, which proclaims compulsory free medical treatment for patients in public and municipal institutions. At the same time, it should be noted that there are several drafts of our national MPs on the committee that present a basic, guaranteed level of health care to be provided by the State. This is contrary to 49 articles of the Constitution because it says that all assistance is free of charge. And here's the definition of base. In this regard, the committee recommends that we hold parliamentary hearings to discuss all of the painful health issues of today. These include the purchase of medicines, the registration of medicines, medical devices, including what kinds of medical care could be provided. To discuss the role of compulsory health insurance in the health system, we also discuss environmental issues, since health depends on human nutrition. Among the poor, there are twice as many cardiovascular diseases as there are other diseases. In this regard, the Committee requests the national deputies to support the holding of parliamentary hearings that would promote the efficient use of health resources, improve the health of the Ukrainian population, motivate the sick to care for their health, and motivate doctors to provide quality medical care. Please support this decision on July 6th of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u58	Thank you, Mikola Efraemovich. I am voting on the decision to hold parliamentary hearings on "Health issues and the medical services of Ukrainian citizens and their solutions on July 6th this year. Bill 6496 registration number. Please vote. [[11:04:15]] For 338 It's been decided. There is a draft Decision on the withdrawal of certain draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6536. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u59	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, have made a proposal to the Supreme Council to remove a number of Supreme Council decrees, five of which have lost their significance, since the two decrees touch on the election of the President of Ukraine, which we have already completed. 6371 deals with the problems of mass action during the Orange Revolution, and 6378 and 6378-1 touches on the problems of resigning the Cabinet of Ministers' mistrust, which has already passed its mandate. If it were your agreement, Adam Ivanovich, I would ask you to put to the vote to support the motion of a committee to remove these decisions from the view of the Supreme Council as those who have lost their goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u60	Thank you. I refer to the authors of the decrees. No one's denying it, is it? Is there a question? Please sign in. Please, three minutes. Incorruptible, Matthew Valentine's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u61	Boris Bespalij, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am here to support this ruling as Secretary of the Committee on Questions. the committee represented by Anatoly Sergiyovich. The fact is that a lot of the documents that we have have lost their validity, but we can't, well, have to look at them because it requires the Rules. And we're also asking the representatives of other committees to most of those documents that have lost relevance that are no longer relevant, but which have to be considered, including the committees, and the session hall, to be removed from consideration without actually considering them. So I propose to support the committee's position to withdraw these documents without considering the fact that it will save our time that we need to adopt really, really important documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u62	Thank you. This was not a question, but a support. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u63	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u64	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, it's like there's nothing here in this project. But it seems to me that, just like today, these problems and questions are of great importance, because the deep causes of these phenomena are not removed, the root causes are not overcome, and the situation on many issues has not diminished, but rather the social and economic problems have worsened. I therefore believe that the draft decision on the political situation in Ukraine not only before the elections but generally about the political situation should be considered how it is developing, because we already have legislation on illustrations, and we need to read what is envisaged there in these laws. And also to overcome the crisis in the system of power. Today we have power the other way around, because that's how things are going to go down, and it's going to get worse. I see these draft regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u66	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I want to say that, of course, no one forbids any MP using the constitutional right of legislative initiative to make projects. be determined and consider them in the session room. But the draft regulations that we're proposing can't just be a steamboat to make completely different documents. These documents touched the specific President and the specific elections. The Supreme Court took place. The court took a decision - and acknowledged the appropriate grounds for both the first and the second. And that's why I think we all have a reason to look at these draft decrees. If you insist on others, I think you can bring them in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u67	Please, Matthew Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u68	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. The distinguished Anatoly Sergeyevich, well, first: there is a regulation that clearly defines the mechanism for dealing with issues. The question has to be considered in the Hall, without consideration - we must follow the letters of the Rules clearly. That's the first one. Second. Don't you think we're trying to think about double standards today? The political situation in Ukraine, what, nobody cares anymore? Or is it the situation that is being turned around today that no one cares anymore? Is everything okay? We are talking today about the issue, not the fact that it is beneficial for someone to watch it today or not. If Parliament is building policies today, given that someone today benefits from considering the issue and someone does not, then why such parliamentaryism? There is a country, there is a people, there are voters, there is a Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I would like to draw your attention once again: not to take two words out of the context of specific regulations. They have a specific address. And they're dealing with a particular problem. Question two. On the Conciliation Council, I have already said that what we do in the Supreme Council with the initiative of the deputy and the mandatory consideration of the matter at the session is not entirely right. I think we should take on the role of profile committees. If the question is not supported on a profile committee, it's probably worth raising a billboard: at least 50 signatures -- so that the question is put in the agenda. You know, we're spending a lot of time, unfortunately, on very empty initiatives instead of working effectively at the Supreme Council. My proposal, I'm supported by the committee, is to dismantle the Supreme Council from so many, well, regulations, It'll just take us a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u70	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think this is the right place. The committee proposes to withdraw any decisions that are no longer relevant and are not available for consideration in the session room. So I'm voting for a motion to withdraw some of the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6536. Please vote [[11:12:01]] For 204 The factions, please. Our Ukraine -58, Communists -0, Ukraine -9, People's Agrarian Party -21, Social Democrats -13, Ukraine - 17, Socialists -0, Timoshenko -19, Union -12, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -6, Democratic Ukraine -13, NDP, Republic -4, Democratic Initiatives -9, Center -8, Non-Faction - 15. [[United]] Once again, I am voting on the decision to withdraw some of the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6536. Please vote. [[11:13:03]] For 261 It's been decided. Let's go. The factions? Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine is 92, the communists are 0, the Ukrainian regions are 1, the People's Agrarian Party is 18, the Social Democrats are 20, the One Ukraine is 16, the Socialists are 4, the Block of Timoshenko is 19, the Union is 13, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 11, the Democratic Ukraine is 14, the NDP, the Republic is 12, the Democratic Initiative is 13, the Center is 9, the non-fractional is 19. Let's go to second reading. Mikola Efremovich, and we can view these three laws as one, because these are all changes to one law. Yes, please, Bill 2522 of Amendments to the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[concerning children with disabilities]] And there's 4258-1 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[concerning adoption of children]] And here's the Child Protection Bill 5106. [[on the prohibition of the worst forms of child labor]] Let's take it as one law, because it all applies. You two. And then there's Lily Stepanovna one at a time. But we're going to end up thinking that this is the same Law on Change in the Same Child Protection Act. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your point is a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 2522. [[concerning children with disabilities]] The bill proposes article 19 of the Ukrainian Law to supplement after part six new parts of the content recommended by the committee: "For children with disabilities and disabled persons from childhood who need care and foreign care, education authorities shall provide education in accordance with the consent of the parents of children and those who replace them in general educational and special educational institutions under appropriate educational programmes, including in domestic settings. Children with disabilities and children with disabilities who are in rehabilitation facilities, institutions and institutions of the health, work and social protection system have the right to receive education through individual educational programmes that are consistent with individual rehabilitation programmes for children with disabilities and disabled children from childhood." Article 19 should be supplemented by the following paragraph: "Individualization and differentiation of education, selection of forms, means and methods of teaching in schools of all forms of property shall be carried out in accordance with this Law and other normative instruments governing the educational process. Responsibility for the training of children with disabilities from childhood relies on education management and educational institutions. However, the amendment was rejected by the Committee, since it is not the norm of the declarant’s proposed amendment. We therefore feel that it would be more appropriate to make such changes to the special education law of Ukraine. The second part of the draft Law is proposed in article 26 of the Act to supplement this with the following: children with disabilities have the right to free material, social and health care, as well as to provide medicines, technical and other means of individual correction in accordance with legislation. Children with disabilities who have a breakdown of the mobile device, if there is a corresponding conclusion of the medical and social expertise that confirms their right to provide for cars, if there is a need for manual control, and who has reached the age of 5 years is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decision, are provided with means of transport on the ground. The right to manage such transportation is acquired by one of the family’s full - grown members, or immediate relatives, of the disabled. In this regard, taking into account the proposed amendments to the draft Law, the bill can be accepted as the Law of Ukraine. Please be supportive. And the next
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u72	Yes. Mikola Efremovich, thank you. Now, dear fellows, there were three proposals here, two included: the offer of the Plástinski People's Deputy is not included. Does he insist? No, it's not. Then let us vote for the adoption as a whole of the Law, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, registration number 2522. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u73	Can I have your back, please? [[11:18:41]] For 282
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u74	Please accept the following. Registration number 4258-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your point is a comparative table to the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 24 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act on adoption of children. The bill proposes part 10 of article 24 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. “Intermediate commercial activities concerning the adoption of children, the transfer of them under the care, care or upbringing of Ukrainian citizens, foreigners or stateless persons are prohibited.” That is, commercial intermediation is prohibited when all acts involving adoption are carried out. Please support this standard. This is a bill introduced by the people's deputy Vasjunik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, please, there were no suggestions here. Therefore, we have every reason to vote it out as a law. I'm voting for adoption as a whole as bill of law number 4258-1. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u77	Please be supportive. Please support, there are many different curves around this issue. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u78	Vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u79	Here comes the vote, your honors. [[11:20:19]] For 275
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u80	Copy that. And the next bill. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 64, Communist faction - 51, "Regions of Ukraine" - 41, National Agrarian Party - 4, SDPU - 20, "One Ukraine" - 13, SPO - 0, Timoshenko - 10, "Soyuz" - 12, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 7, "Democratic Ukraine" - 11, NDP - "Republic" - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 11, "Centre" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18. And the last law in the same series is said to be Bill 5106. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, before Lilia Stepanovna speaks, let me give you some information. Dear colleagues, the issue of granting approval for the appointment of the Prime Minister, if there is no objection, we will consider it at 16 hours. This is a request from the President of Ukraine, he wants to be in the session room with us on this issue. I'd like to take this into account, and all of you will be as friendly at work as you are now. Please, Julia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is suggested by a comparative table in the Ukrainian Act of Amendments and Supplements to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act on the Prohibition of the Worst Forms of Child Labour. The bill proposes part five of article 21 of this Act after the words "no involvement of children in" are proposed to complement "the worst forms of child labour" and to complement part six with such content as "the worst forms of child labour are all forms of slavery or practices similar to slavery, such as sale and trafficking of children, debt dependence, and forced or compulsory labour, including forced or compulsory recruitment for use in armed conflicts." Also, the use of recruiting or offering a child to engage in prostitution, pornography, or pornography. Using the child’s recruitment or offering to engage in illegal activities, a job that, by its nature, causes great harm to the child’s physical or mental health. In preparing the bill for second reading by the Ukrainian national deputies, virtually no comments were made. The only thing the committee did was to specify the numbering of the parts. In this regard, I ask you, dear colleagues, to support the second reading of the amendments to the Child Protection Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u83	Yes, fellow believers, we also have reason to accept this law in general as the Law. No objections? I'm voting for adoption as a whole as the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, Bill No. 5106. I'm asking the factions, please don't press the button. We vote yes. [[11:23:55]] For 298 A decision has been made. So, once again, your esteemed colleagues, both for the protocol, and for further work on this law. Here we had three draft amendments to the same law. We agreed with you that all of these three projects we are building together, because these are changes to the same law. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children is being discussed. [[about the size of the aid]] Registration number 5638, reporter - Mikola Eframovich Polishchuk, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u85	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Skomarowski and adopted in the third reading of 03.11.2004, has been proposed since the first of January 2005 to increase the one-time assistance for uninsured persons, equal to twice the living minimum. The 2005 project — 423 bracelets for two or 846, as established by the Ukrainian law on State aid to families with children. The project proposes to increase this standard to a minimum of three times per person per month, i.e. 269 dollars. Today, insured persons receive 15,50 dollars at the birth of a child, estimated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a new type of assistance will require an additional 50 million dollars from the 2005 State Budget. It is also anticipated that since January 1, 2006, there will be an increase in the amount of care for the child before reaching the age of three, that is, provision of assistance at least half the subsistence minimum. For 2005, this type of assistance for the unemployed amounted to 90 dollars. In the Committee’s view, increasing child care to reach a three - year - old age to a living minimum in 2005 is unrealistic, as two and a half billion more needs to be found. So it was proposed to shift this increase to a level that could not be less than 50 percent of the minimum of living, but if there were funds in the budget, it would be possible to increase this aid in accordance with the law at any time without making any additional changes. We consider it appropriate to support the idea of raising one-time state aid for the birth of a child and helping to care for a child until he reaches the age of three, which should have a positive impact on the birth rate of Ukraine. The bill for second reading also proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[on the increase to three subsistence minimums of state-owned one-time care at the birth of a child]] Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[about the size of the aid]] Registration number 5638. Please vote. [[11:28:01]] For 366 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports is being announced for consideration. [[on the status of the National Sports Federation]] Safiullin Ravil Safovich. I'm asking the rapporteurs to talk about the amendments so we can save time, not talk about the law. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism considered, at its meeting, the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport of Ukraine on the granting of the status of the National Federation, which was introduced by the People's MP Kravchenko and was adopted on first reading, recommends that the Supreme Council consider the bill on second reading adopt it. The bill provides for the establishment of a rule that regulates the granting of the status of the National Sports Federation if necessary, if there are several applicants, a competitive solution, the adoption of a law will force the federations that receive national status, maintain their activities in accordance with international requirements, and I would like to say that the Committee takes into account all comments made by both the people's deputies and the Scientific and Expert Office. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u88	Yes, Your Honor, do you have any warnings? A second reading proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the status of the National Sports Federation]] Registration number 5031. Please vote. [[11:30:14]] For 298 Decision taken. All right, let's move on. We were about to consider a draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws in connection with the adoption of Ukraine's Electricity Act, but the committee proposes to postpone its consideration of this project once again. No warning? Well, then, let's take a look. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on individuals awarded by the Supreme Council of Ukraine]] Dear Vasil Ivanovich, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 6 proposals were submitted, 2 of them taken into account and 4 taken into account in part. Partly, this is related to the existing legislation and to the fact that the Act should be renegotiated with the relevant Law on State Prizes. In this connection, the amendments made by our colleagues to the first reading of the draft have only been taken into account in the case where they are fully associated with the Law on State Awards, which is the basis for determining whether a person is worthy of a special merit pension before Ukraine. All these additions and changes that have not been made are not in conformity with the Ukrainian Prizes Act, 4 of which are not taken into account. In general, the Committee proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading and final.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u90	Yes, dear colleagues, since the proposals made by the people's deputies have been taken into account, we have every reason to put a vote on the Committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and, in general, as the Act, the draft Law, amending the Ukrainian Law, on pensions for special merit before Ukraine in respect of persons awarded the Supreme Council. Please vote, registration number 3102. [[11:32:47]] For 253
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u91	Decision taken. Yes. Now, now. What? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine," I read "for" - 11, Communists -51, "Regions of Ukraine" -43, People's Agrarian - 26, SDPU - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19, SPO - 0, Block Timoshenko - 9, Union - 13, Industrialists - 11, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, NDP, Republic - 11, Democratic Initiatives - 1, Center - 7, Non-fraction - 17. The draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Compulsory Pension Insurance, Registration Number 4584, Reporter: Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga, is being reviewed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u92	Respectable colleagues. I want to remind myself, literally, in detail. As you know, you and I have adopted the Pension Insurance Act by adopting a new concept. Accordingly, starting on 1 January last year, we have a new pension scheme. The State Pension Insurance Act was comprehensive and dealt with a number of problems related to retirement, pension, pension payments to the Pension Fund and the rest. However, in a number of other laws, we have appropriate references and points to be connected with pension legislation. In connection with the amendment of the basic law and proposed in the first reading, the proposed bill today was adopted in this room, the essence of which is to systematize all the legislation that we have today, on the basis that a new Act on State Pension Insurance has been in force since 1 January last year. On the basis of the proposals, and 59, in the preparation of the bill for second reading, 54 were taken into account in full, in part and in only four, i.e. a small part was not taken into account because they violated the general conceptual formation of the pension insurance legislation. The rest of the Committee agreed and proposes that the bill be adopted on second reading and final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Since the bill is very important, there is a proposal for the committee to accept it in a second reading, and then we will be determined about the final decision. I put the committee's second reading bill to the vote first. This is registration number 4584 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on compulsory pension insurance. Please vote in second reading. Please vote. [[11:36:01]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -15; Communists -48; "Regions of Ukraine" -26; National Agrarian -23; SDPU -18; "One Ukraine" -3; SPO -0; Block Timoshenko -5 "Union" -0; Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -7; "Democratic Ukraine" -12; NDP, "Republic" -10; "Deminitiates" -7; "Centre" -7; Non-fractional -14. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that this law is completely technological. It removes the differences between the Law on Stately Pension Insurance and some other laws, where the rules of this basic law are not taken into account. You can treat the basic law differently, but it's adopted, and we have to eliminate the mismatch between laws. I ask everyone to vote in favour of this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm asking you to stop the rally. Well, you'll be able to share more. Sit down, please. Let's have one vote. We worked on the draft laws in the second reading. All amendments that have been made are considered. There is a proposal for the committee to vote and accept it in a second reading. We did not make that decision. Who's for going back to the draft Law. [[Registration number 4584]] Please vote. [[11:38:01]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to re-read the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on compulsory pension insurance]] [[Registration number 4584]] Please vote. [[11:38:38]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. So let's go over the draft laws with the reduced procedure. The draft Law on the Implementation of a Moratorium for the Granting of Licences for the Implementation of Economic Activities from the Release and Conduct of Lotteries is being announced for consideration. Please report by Petrov Oleg Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u96	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I won't tell much about this bill. We remember him with you. The only thing I want to notice. For seven years now, the bill on State regulation for the release and conduct of lottery and money games has been passed in Parliament and adopted in the first reading. And we're introducing this bill on the moratorium just taking into account how to bring the normal system into the lottery market. And that's the main thing. Because a lot of people say that someone's doing it today and that sort of thing. I want to emphasize again, today many interested people, but those who work in the lottery market, so that there is no legislative basis. So we clearly state that the moratorium is in place before the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of Release Activities and Lottery and Money Games. This is a principled position. So I'm asking you to adopt this bill and go to the State Regulations Act and put order in the lottery market.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u97	Thank you, Oleg Petrovich, for the brief and precise presentation of the draft law. Philip Philipovich Budzigan of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Households, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at its meeting on September 14th last year, Protocol No. 66, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets. Registration number 5559, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a moratorium on the granting of licences for the issuance of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and conduct of lotteries, as provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of business activities, before the adoption of a law regulating the principles of the state monopoly for the release and conduct of lotteries and money games. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the following comments and suggestions. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. People’s deputies, Solomatin, Puzakov, Hinzburg, Carmazin, Nadraga, Mochchan, Cherniak, were enrolled. We need two to go, two to go. Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u100	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The implementation of the bill will indeed provide an opportunity to protect the lottery market from harmful influences and to provide national interests. The main goal of the bill is to achieve high levels of lottery performances, money games and corresponding deductions to the State Budget. The bill's name speaks for itself, its authors propose to introduce a moratorium on the issuance of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets to the adoption of a special Ukrainian Act on State regulation of the production and conduct of lottery and money games. The substance of the changes proposed by the people’s deputies is understandable. The drafters explain that the moratorium has been introduced to ensure the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens and to prevent possible abuses in the conduct of production and lottery activities. The bill regulates lottery activity and the protection of private investment, which can be directed to lotteries against possible losses. In other words, only those subjects who have already obtained such licences will have a lot to do with the adoption of this law, which will regulate the introduction of state monopolies for the release and conduct of lotteries and money games. And to monitor their compliance with the licensing conditions for the production and execution of lottery tickets, to carry out the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. That is to say, the bill must be supported because it has the hope of contributing to the fulfillment of Ukraine's state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u101	Olga Hinzburg, please. You don't? Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u102	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Everyone wants the money in the budget. Today, we are pleased to adopt some laws, and we have left hundreds of millions of dollars at the expense of the budget with a violation, of course, of the budget code. But we're not looking for where the money is. But I would like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, why, so far, the law that was passed by the Supreme Council on April 3, 2003, on the first reading, on the state regulation of the release and the conduct of lottery and money games, has not been introduced to the second reading here. Because it's clear that if in Poland the market that makes all these lottery deals -- 500 million euros -- in Italy -- is 1 billion euros, today, by modest estimates, in Ukraine the capacity of this market is about one billion dollars. This money's sitting somewhere right now. So today I have an offer for Mrs. Timoshenko. I'm showing you where the money is. Why don't any of your financiers see it? And please include this source in the government program. And to the heads of the Committee on Economic Policy, I'm asking the heads of national agriculture to speed up and give this law as a matter of urgency. Why? Because. I will certainly be in favour of the adoption of this law now, establishing a moratorium on the granting of a license for the holding of the production and the holding of the lottery. But if we're going to adopt this law right now, on the one hand, we're going to enter a monopoly, that is, monopolization of the market that already exists. Those licenses those who had, they can now, they'll use them. Then they will use this law, which we will accept as good, to the detriment of all the Ukrainian people. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. Money is rolling under the feet of the state. Give me an assignment, please. Make sure that the laws aimed at increasing the income portion of the budget do not become involved. Because it's only now that I'm spending it, that everyone's looking for it. And I'm also addressing the Budget Committee, Mr. Dusty. I would like to ask you to look closely at this law and the adoption. And if one committee doesn't want to consider for some reason, which is a violation of the Rules -- not bringing it here, then you have to react, Adam Ivanovich, you're responsible for passing the bill. Please vote in the first and second readings of this bill immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Basil Nadrag. The faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, when we speak today of the fact that we must consider this bill, we agree that this topic is very principled, that it is very serious and, accordingly, those approaches and those proposals that are now expressed by our dearly beloved authors are normal, and we believe that if this approach is to take place, everything will be normal. Moreover, the discussion is about adopting the bill as a basis. Why? Because it does not take into account a number of things that, in our view, require further refinement. But for first reading, this bill is more than enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u105	Yes, Silent Paul Mikhailovich. You don't? Vladimir Cherniak. None. So, therefore, the honourable colleagues, the discussion of the draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on the granting of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets, is complete. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Law on the implementation of a moratorium on the issuance of licences for the conduct of commercial activities from the release and the holding of lottery tickets is put to the vote. Registration number 5559. Please vote. [[11:50:02]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We have four more questions to consider. One of them is asking the authors to take it off the table. There's a proposal for us to consider these issues right now, and then we'll announce a 60-hour recess so that you can hold consultations. Based on the base. Just on the ground. No warning? The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transactions in Taxation in External Economic Relations is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the import order]] The reporter is Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. Please. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Fellows! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations. What caused this? The donor raw material imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by a foreign contracting entity and resulting in transactions that do not change the code of the Ukrainian classification of goods by a foreign contracting entity shall be subject to import duties at the rates of the sole customs tariff of Ukraine, taxes and congregations carried out in the import of goods in accordance with the legislation on general terms. As an example. Today, more than ten plants are operating in Ukraine in preparation for the seeds of sugar beet, which have a modern line of seed purification, high - quality yeast and inlaid seeds. At present, a number of businesses in Moldova, Russia, are ready to recycle their seeds in Ukraine on donor terms. I emphasize that. There is an opportunity to return lost markets to Ukrainian businesses. Earlier, our four companies had planted sugar beet seeds for the entire former Soviet Union, and today there are sufficient capacities for this purpose. However, in view of the imperfections of individual laws governing the issue of tax treatment in external economic activities, it is not possible to do the work. So both the donor and the finished product refer to the same code. The talk is about the 60 days that we are given the time to pay the excise congregations. And so it would be very important for the company to pay for the export of this raw material. The implementation of the proposed supplement does not require additional costs from the State budget, and its implementation will contribute to the utilization of the capacity of processing enterprises and thereby increase their revenues and revenues to the State budget. As an example. I want to give you an example. The introduction of this problem does not require, as I said, an additional cost. On the contrary, only the irritation of the foreign seed of sugar beet at the Trieste Seed Plant of 500 tons can bring about a VAT of 4.5 million dollars to the State budget of Ukraine. And that can be said for other businesses. So I'd like this bill to be adopted in the first reading, and for the second reading I'd like to work with the scientific expertise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u107	Yes. Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u108	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, the distinguished people's deputies, the draft law on tradable raw materials in external economic relations was not considered by the Committee because the law had changed and we had received the Act to the Committee in exchange for the previously submitted Act. But I would like to say, not to mention the Committee's opinion, because it does not exist, since we have not considered it, I would like to point out that this bill is important enough for the country's economy. Because it's an additional load of our production capacity and it's a mass of examples, not just in the agrarian sector, and in the industry, when there's a desire to recycle some raw materials, products, and it doesn't change the code. It is very important here that we do not put a burden on legislation that will allow smuggling to take place and thus reduce budget revenues. I believe that the bill must be adopted on first reading, finalized in the preparation for second reading and taken into account the comments of both the scientific and expert offices and the comments that will be received from the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u109	Yes. Dear colleagues enrolled: Solomon, Hinzburg, Carmazin, Nadraga, Shurma, Cherniak. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. Olga Hinsburg. Microphone, please turn on Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Hinzburg, Communist faction. We're looking at this Law on Change in Transactions with Tax Commodity From Our State. What can we have, our country? What kind of seed will ensure the quality growth of our agricultural sector? Can we have any income in the budget? That I can't understand this law in any way. But I'm connecting for myself today by taking the government programme that we've been given, and I'm reading on page 41 of the agrarian policy that will be held in our country after the approval of today's Cabinet of Ministers. And it is completely contrary to the law that we are offered today. So we can't understand what's going on at the time, and some of the laws that are being proposed by the deputies, another agricultural policy that is being proposed by the new Cabinet of Ministers, they're completely contradicting each other. And so, worrying about our village and the agricultural sector, a faction of Communists cannot support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully examined this law. And you know, right now you're just analyzing the bills and looking at them because they're not complex, and you're looking at these framework bills, and you're looking at who they're good for. Under certain circumstances, this bill could be beneficial to the State of Ukraine, but under certain circumstances. I was saddened by the fact that the profile committee had said that he had not considered the matter. I don't know what we're even considering when a committee can't say what it's for. In view of the fact that I do not see in the financial and economic justification project and I cannot determine whether the changes proposed by the project will increase, the coming to the State budget or vice versa will reduce them, due to the fact that the criteria for compliance are not taken into account will allow for the processing of the tax raw material that will not result in the release of the finished product with the code. Other than in the given raw material, before dealing with the donor raw material of external economic relations, I think this project is too early. It needs to be worked out in order to replace the references specifically to the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity, which, according to the government's decision of 1998, was introduced on July 1, 2001 and constitutes Ukraine's only customs statistical nomenclature. In this regard, it would also be necessary to write everything down in this law. Obviously, we need to know the point of view of the new government. I wouldn't be in a hurry today to adopt this law because there is no economic justification. And we have a duty in the government to give such a basis. Let us wait, and let Julius Tymoshenko present this reasoning. And if this law is needed, we'll accept it. So far, I have abstained from voting on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u113	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I would like to disagree with the previous speaker for what reasons. I would like to recall that the laws on transactions in foreign-economic commodities were adopted in the spring of September 1995. The law was redrafted in October 2001. Today, therefore, the problem of outward economic relations is serious enough. I can say that, unfortunately, there are, of course, its benefits, the negatives. Minuses when someone tries this case, I beg your pardon, to raise criminal capital. But when we talk about the development of the production base, we should be grateful to our colleagues who have sponsored this bill, because just as today our agriculture is suffering from the same kind of sewing business, particularly in the Lugansk region, which is working on external economic raw materials. Because the existing regulatory framework does not allow for the possibility of working on fiscal schemes. Unfortunately, we are not yet ready to work fully on self-sustainment in the external market. That's why the proposal that we got with you today in the form of this bill is normal because it gives you two positive points: first, it gives you the opportunity to work on those productive capacities in agriculture that we have, where there are people who need wages, where there are local budgets that need deductions, that is, they allow for the existence and development of production. More importantly, I must say that the bill, if adopted, would have a positive impact on the question of the State and local budgets. And that's also the problem that we need to think about with you if we're public figures. And the last. Of course, there are some nuances that require clarification, but I am absolutely in solidarity with the committee that the representative spoke to here rightly suggested that in general this is a very positive decision, which allows real production to engage in real production and to issue real wages, real deductions to the State budget. It is therefore thought that the proposal to adopt this bill on first reading is an extremely positive decision that we must make with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u115	Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] You don't? Then, please, Vladimir Kirilovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, honourable voters who expect important decisions from Parliament. I would say that there are no minor decisions in Parliament, including the issue is also important. And we must make the right decision. The bill proposes to improve the management of processing businesses in Ukraine to include in paragraph 3 of the second article of the Ukrainian Law "On dealing with donor raw materials in external economic relations standards which provide for the granting of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine the right to exercise, based on the technological characteristics of manufacturing, by the submission of the relevant Ministry or other central executive authority, the right to apply to the transaction of tax raw materials in the external economic relations of those operations for the processing of duty raw materials that do not result in the production of finished products than in the raw material concerned. That's what the bill is all about. I personally tend to conclude that the bill can be taken as a basis. At the same time, it should be thoroughly worked out in preparation for the second reading. A series of substantives. Fair offer, expressed by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in particular, it will be necessary to define clearly the criteria that will allow compliance with the transaction for the processing of the donor raw material that does not result in the production of the finished product. raw materials, before dealing with donor raw materials in external economic relations. I mean, there's a problem with the criteria. So far, it's not resolved, and it's going to have to be decided, that's for sure. It will also be necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers to take fully into account such criteria when exercising its right under this law because there are potential abuses. If there are clear criteria, you can control how they follow. So there are certain threats that Deputy Carmazin spoke of today. And I agree with that. And you also need to do a transaction with the donor raw material before you define the term, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u117	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Taxation Transactions in External Economic Relations has been completed. [[concerning the import order]] A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Off-Breaking Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[concerning the import order]] Registration number 5701. Please vote. Voting, Your Honor, please. [[12:06:34]] For-143 The decision is not taken. It is up to the vote to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Off-Breaking Transactions in External Economic Relations. [[concerning the import order]] Registration number 5701. Please vote. [[12:07:08]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax is being announced for consideration. [[on academic pay]] Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Osik Sergey Grigorovich. From the Committee, Terjehyn Sergey Anatoliyovich. Ah, the chairman of the Burjak committee will be speaking, Sergey Vasilovich. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u118	Sergey Osika, faction of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is brought to your attention because of the following circumstances. First of all, I'm not an academic, and there's no personal interest in me. And the second is a concrete step, and there's a lot in the room that says that science needs to be supported. We're talking about our national academy. It's just about 1046 real members and members. It is simply that they receive what is called life support, which is not included in their wages and is not subject to labour law. That's why it's not. I don't think that's worth it. Tax. This step will signal that these people who have given their lives, all their lives, are supported by the state. The second signal is for young people that this country still cares for academics in the right way. There's a natural question about how much it costs for the budget for a year. I answer, 3.5 million dollars. Where to go? Let me give you some examples. There's only one newly created Minfinian -- I'm stressing that the famous Uzu for 2005 has received 112 million dollars. It doesn't get into any of your heads. Another example. The tax academy got 90 million dollars, there's no academics, there's no cow members, there's no world of our science. The second part of this question is that. These are the prizes that young scientists get, the champions of the Olympic Games and so on. The budget is only 35,000 dollars. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and in general, as supported by both our committee and the committee in science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u119	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Just a little bit. The bill proposes not to include in the total monthly or annual tax income: First, the sums of Ukraine's state grants because of Ukraine's state scholarships, which are defined not only by law, but as stipulated by a valid norm, but by the decrees of the President of Ukraine. The other one. The sums of payments from the State Budget for actual members, i.e. academics and correspondents of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and sectoral academics, as a monthly permanent salary for the appointment of a real member and a member of the correspondent. The exemption from tax on the incomes of the individuals concerned is conditional on the payment of such income from the State Budget of Ukraine. The committee was generally supported by a named bill, but it was suggested that a comprehensive list of academics should be set aside from paying taxes on the income of natural persons every month, i.e. academics and correspondent members. So the words "branches of science" are replaced by the words "Ukraine Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine, Academy of Law of Ukraine, Academy of Arts of Ukraine." In addition, it was proposed not to exempt the payment of taxes on the income of natural persons from the state premiums of Ukraine, particularly young scientists and state scholarships of Ukraine if they were established by decree of the President of Ukraine. In the light of the clarifications made, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Individuals to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. [[about the academic title]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Maybe we should put this to a vote right away. There's a problem. No, it's not. Please, let's talk about this. Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepare Michael Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u122	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We continue with you the old, good, Soviet tradition of supporting the most disadvantaged and most important recognized members of our society. And of course, our faction approves such an approach, we will vote in favour of this bill. And I'd like to ask you just one thing, so that in the following cases, when we're going to take care of you not only the academics, but also the postgraduates, not only the postgraduates, but the students, not only the students, but also the students, not only the students, but also those who give birth, these parents should be helped with the birth of the child, and so on and so forth. It's only possible on one condition, when what is owned by modern-day divers, oligarchs, stolen from the people, I mean -- property, will work on the people themselves. Now those who try to cover all these problems and make up the government of Ukraine, as if the Government of Managers, as if the Government of Experts, have a duty to the Ukrainian people to take care of them first, not of those who have stolen property from the people. That's why the conversations are about to begin: not to have an oligarch come to power, but to have managers come. Who are these managers? These are the emissaries and messengers of these oligarchs. So if someone has the impression that the new government will take care of the working person first, it is certainly wrong. The new government, the government of capitalist messengers, will primarily care for those who sent him to the government. So let us take under universal control the work of the government that will be created and approved so that it does not just take place by declarations. Like the government program that we were given for consideration, and by its concrete actions, it proved that it was working for the people every day. I hope very much that we will make a concerted effort with you to make this attempt, including, for the sake of the academics that we are releasing today, when they receive extra taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u123	Mikhailo Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction, prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u124	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. As I have already said, colleague Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, the Communist faction will support this bill. But I would like to share my views on the discussion that I had to hear from others, including the law. Most important of all, it is drawing attention to how our society has changed. I would like to recall that at the Soviet time, from the very beginning, when the country was poor and very and very difficult to live on, the Soviet authorities had adopted a decision and a ruling that never changed, the highest wages had been paid by academics and the Correspondents of the Academy of Sciences. Neither a party nor a state official could reach that limit. This said that the country understood prestige, not just the scientist's prestige, that it was the driving force that led society forward. And that's how that attitude has changed so far. I'm not talking about our expert management's comments anymore. Well, one of the things is that there's no such thing in civilized Europe. I think someone else will. I would like to say that it is very strange to hear, for example, an invitation to a civilized Europe to the people of the country who gave peace to Chevchenko, the mathematician Kravczuk, the medicine of Bogoltz, the cybernetics of Mousekov, the electric cook of Patton and many others. Moreover, people seriously reason that academics are no different from others. In this regard, I would just like to bring and remember the genius Gegel, who once said, "Why can't a valet judge a great man properly? Because there are no heroes in the lake." And the last thing I want to say is that I remember. It's not that we have to compare everyone, it's that people of their own level naturally deserve to be in the front row of society. And whoever thinks that we have, as they say, both the scientist and the football player are all on the same page, I think it's another expression of the same famous scientist to say that we don't understand this own little thing usually to see the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, where: Our Ukraine faction, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u126	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear national MPs, the question seems to be simple and simple, the question is first and foremost very difficult. I point out that the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, when the introduction of legislative proposals affects the coming into the budget, requires, on the basis of article 27, that proposals be made for sources of additional income to cover the increase in expenditure. That's not what we've been offered. Nor did the Committee on Budgets offer such proposals. Now let's see what they're offering. It is suggested that the benefits be increased again. Okay. No questions asked. Illuminators. What about the principle of equality, which provides for equal treatment of operators in the determination of tax and congregation obligations, the establishment of the same conditions for taxation of all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of income, occupation, qualifications, and so on? What is the principle of social orientation that stems from the need for income-based benefits? How can legal regulation be harmonized? Those national MPs who remember what happened when the pay of the national deputies was not paid by profit, you all remember that. We said no, everyone has to pay taxes in this state. And they started with the people's deputies. Now look, I'm going to go to the Correspondent of the Academy of Sciences of Miklay Efraemovich Polishchuk -- a great man, a well-deserved man, has a lot of work, and I'm saying, please tell me, I want to study and your opinion, how, not enough, except for the pension, which 80-90 percent of the scientist goes as a civil servant, do you think that? Another correspondent is an extra thousand, one and a half thousand dollars, an academic at the National Academy -- two and a half thousand, that's an extra one, and that's more than four thousand dollars in the area. At present levels of wealth in the state and most pensioners still need to be taxed or not needed? But obviously you don't have to do that. So, honourable national MPs, I'm going to be against this bill, because we still have to feed a lot of people, we still have to take care of those young scientists who are leaving the country today because of the low level of wage. And the low level is because there's no money in the budget. That's the circle that's closed. That is why, Your Honor, I would ask you not to introduce projects that violate the Code of Budgets, the principles of social justice that are provided for in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u127	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, in recent years, we have invested in the word “elite” -- financial, political elite, sorry for the rudeness of the expression, the bandit elite. But we forget that at first, talking about elites in any society were talking about intellectual, scientific, cultural elites, that is, those people who make up, excuse the patheticness, mind, honour and conscience of any nation, any society. And so far, when we talk about what we want academics, members of the Academy of Sciences, to make young scientists, 25 people a year get a pension from young scientists. We must support these people, and we hear such things from this rostrum, when there is only a misunderstanding of the position of some colleagues who say they cannot do so, and they themselves say that unfortunately, intellectual, scientific resources are moving away from us. Why? Because we can't give them a decent standard of living here. Today, it is proposed to support and support the members of the academic correspondents. What's wrong with the best of the brightest of the smarts getting government support? What's wrong with 25 young scientists getting a scholarship from the President every year? Therefore, when we hear a discussion today that this could lead to almost a financial bankruptcy of the State, it is, at best, a misunderstanding. The next moment, I think that we must be clear with you that we are, in fact, raising the prestige of science, telling young people that this country, this people, we are telling people that they have been valued, and we are setting an example for others to strive for it. That is why I agree, and I think we will support this bill on first reading. But on the other hand, there are moments, and I think it is quite fair that the same Committee on Financial and Banking introduced a proposal to clarify the list of scientific institutions, and a number of other proposals that have been made here to develop the draft law since the adoption of the first reading. So once again, if we want to think about the future, where this country is going, who will come up with and bring fresh ideas, new developments and new technologies, we simply have to adopt this bill with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u129	Yeah, now, one minute, with motive. I see everything, dear fellows. Cherniak, Yukhnowski and Polishchuk, one minute later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! High-intellectual pay should pay high wages, it requires high wages, and this is done worldwide. But there is a fundamental question not only in this particular case, but in general in Parliament, for a government that is going through 6 or going through the way of granting benefits or raising wages and pensions. Clearly, there is a need to raise wages, pensions, academic fees, and a higher standard of living. It's the right course. But all income has to be taxed. And there should be no exceptions. Therefore, it is not the way to reduce taxes, to pay taxes, to increase wages, to pay academic fees, and to increase pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u131	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u132	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable MP! I want to thank Sergey Grigorovich Osica for this bill and for the high thoughts that have touched, in particular, the academic science and, in particular, the academics of the correspondent members that I belong to. But I want to tell the honourable Supreme Council that we are not the initiators of this bill. This is the personal initiative of Sergey Grigorovich and the other deputies who went with him. I know the opinion of the National Academy of Sciences Bureau. The Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences is not inclined to do so either. We do not ask, academics, to reduce taxes for academic title in Ukraine. Yet, with regard to this law, I believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u133	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. We should be supportive. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that today it is not for the title, but for the quality of the work done. That's clear. The other one. I'm a member of the Academy of Medical Sciences, and every month I get 1,430 bracelets for wearing that title. My scientific potential for this has not increased that I have a title, absolutely, although I have more than 350 jobs, monographs and much more. Look, we've adopted some great drafts with you today. When children are born, mothers add money, every income needs to be taxed. Today, academics have both pensions and a reward of at least 4,000 in total. That's why every profit has to be taxed, that's a normal thing. I'm asking you not to support it. It doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, mobilize. We're going to make a decision. You've seen how modest our academics are, but I think we're all in favour of making a fair decision. Therefore, the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons is put to the vote. [[on academic pay]] Registration number 6411. Please vote. [[12:29:50]] For 240 Decision taken. May I have your attention, please? There were suggestions made by the committee’s chairman. There is also a proposal for a committee to take these details into account, to accept this project as a whole as a law. I put to the vote this proposal for adoption, taking into account the proposals put forward by the chairman of the draft law committee as a whole as a law. Registration number 6411. Please vote. Vote, dear fellows! [[12:30:31]] For 231 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 55, Ukraine - 33, National Agrarian - 24, SDPU - 20, Ukraine - 19, SPU - 16, Block Timoshenko - 4, Union - 9, Industrial and Entrepreneurs - 11, Democratic Ukraine - 14, NDP, Republic - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 4, Center - 1, Postfaction - 9. Decision taken. The law is passed. I want to remind you that I will prepare for you and submit the bills that you voted for, your honourable colleagues. A few days ago. And then it turns out that the point of sitting determines the point of view, let's be tolerant. Calm down, please. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the order of payment of a single or fixed tax, as well as insurance contributions to general government social security and state pension insurance for simplified taxation, accounting, and reporting systems is under consideration. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget 2 February reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the order of payment of a single or fixed tax, as well as the insurance contributions to the general public social security and public pension insurance of the subjects of simplified taxation, accounting and reporting systems provided by the national deputies Teryochin and Pinzenik, and we report on the following. The bill proposes to make several changes. It's very brief on what these changes are about. It is proposed to exclude from article 45 of the Ukrainian Law the provisions governing the payment of a single tax and a fixed agricultural tax on compulsory government social and pension insurance. It is proposed that the amendments to article 96 of the State Budget Act 2005 remove restrictions on the definition of the basis for the collection of insurance contributions. As you know in 2005, a new base for the collection of such contributions has been set up. If in 2004, it amounted to 2,600 dollars, now it is 4100 dollars. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the adoption of such a bill would lead to significant budget losses. This is about local budgets today, for these contributions are paid directly to local budgets. Thus, when we make this decision, we completely balance the local budgets: which we cannot allow. The committee does not object to tax cuts, but it clearly denies this when it is done without a balance in the state budget. Under these conditions, it is proposed that this bill, which has been tabled by the representatives of Teryochin and Pinzenik, should be considered exclusively in the context of the preparation of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005, in accordance with Article 110 of the Act, i.e. in determining the sources of compensation for the loss of income. Only under such conditions can this Law be adopted. Without such a condition, the Committee considers that it is not possible to consider this Law, it will cause damage to both the State budget and accordingly to everyone without excluding the insurance funds: both the Pension Fund and the Accident Insurance Fund on production, and the Unemployment Insurance Fund and others. So we're proposing that this law should only be considered in the context of general changes to the State Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u137	Yes. Sophia: Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Recorded: Zibenko, Hinzburg, Carmazin, Nadraga, Šurma, Vojsz, Cherniak. Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, please, the Communist faction. Prepare Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, the Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address all of you with a specific proposal that is, as it were, generalistic. We all understand how uneasy the tax laws are in us, and so I very much ask each of us, when we make changes to tax laws, let us make them separately, not mix sin with the righteous, because in this law there is a positive, certainly, but there is a negative. And for me personally, if you weigh the positive and the negative, the negative is much more. I really want to believe that the drafters wanted to do better, and it's going to be too bad, as always. What do I mean? Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the direct losses of the Pension Fund budget from the adoption of this law amount to over half a billion. In today’s conditions, this is extremely serious. It's different. This is already a very serious loss for local budgets. And here we have, given the regional situation, to think about it very seriously. Some losses will also be borne by insurance budgets, but this is, as it were, total losses. But I would like us to understand that this is about personal loss, because the point is that employed workers who work for the natural and legal persons who pay a single or fixed tax will lose part of their pension rights. That's what we're talking about. Because the employer will be obliged to pay their pension insurance premiums only on a minimum basis, which will make it impossible for them to continue taking into account all the income earned in the calculation of the pension. Under a personalised pension scheme, this will result in almost all employees receiving a minimum pension by age, regardless of the size of their earnings. So, dear colleagues, I would like to convey to you the opinion and the committee that I lead and the factions that we will not uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u139	Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. By considering whether or not this law is being studied and somehow by understanding it, the authors of this law would like to do a good job. And we understand if you're an entrepreneur who uses it. Either it's a single-tax payer, or it's a legal person who uses the only tax and hires people, these people he takes a passport there, he hires a job, they're not guaranteed that. Because the National Social Insurance Fund does not pay in case of unemployment, the Social Insurance Fund does not pay in case of accidents in production and occupational diseases in Ukraine, nor does it pay in the Pension Fund. That's how a person who does it gets completely wrong. And that's why in this law all of these norms would be regulated. But as we look at it further, we see that the basic tax that paid and from which local budgets were to be formed is a loss. According to the draft law, various of the above - mentioned farm funds that have chosen a special tax system will have to be calculated and paid from all the wages received. And that's why we can now think that an entrepreneur can hide in a salary and give people money in an envelope, as is often the case right now. However, an increase of 40 percent in the amount of contributions to various funds is not really compensated for by listed individuals for a reduction in the single and fixed tax rates. Moreover, the introduction of payment to operators who have chosen a simplified system of taxation separately from a single and fixed contribution tax to the Pension Fund and other funds requires the addition of such entities, as well as the filing and filing of responsible reporting funds. As we consider this law, we are making a proposal from the faction that my colleague has now sounded, because we are considering this law, which could violate the 27th article of the Code of Budget and the 2005 budget in the context of considering changes, amending the 2005 budget, and only so that we cannot reduce the budgets of the local authorities today. But to protect our employees who go to employers, we must. And it is the gold that has been incorporated into this law that must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u141	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Is there a Yuri Anatolyovich? None. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u142	My dear colleagues, speaking of this bill, I wish to say that I have rightly and objectively addressed the situation of the consideration of this bill by the chairman of our committee, Zybenko Petar Stepanović, with whom we dealt with this topic yesterday. And I have to tell you that, of course. It seems that a great deal has been introduced into this bill, and there is an attempt by one wave to resolve everything. I don't take the courage to evaluate the budget components, everything else. But as Chairman of the Retired and Retired Pensions Subcommittee, I would like to refer only to this part of the bill. So what is the pension theme in this bill? I must tell you, unfortunately, the fact in this bill is that there will be a sharp reduction in the pension security of one million two hundred thousand people, these are the people who are employed by those who work on a single patent. Accordingly, people who receive the same salary where there are contributions and so on, so to speak, the treatment of the pension system under existing legislation in full and those who receive, if, God forbid, this bill will pass, will receive completely different pensions under all equal conditions. What is the fault of the hired worker that the landlord failed to pay for him and thereby deprived him of his normal pension? Normal why? There's a lot to argue about - is there a big pension today? But the bill initially said that the employee would receive a minimum pension. He won't stand a chance of getting anything more, that's the minimum. Next moment. We are talking today about the need to seek resources, including for the Pension Fund, because the State commitment to people in employment pensions exceeds the financial capacity of both the State and society. But I have a question: I'm sorry, then what is the point of the proposal in this bill, which is 522 million. 500 thousand. The pension income will be reduced. That's another half billion to the deficit we've been hearing so often from this rostrum. Based on this logic, I repeat once again, as head of the Committee on Pensioners and Pensions, that I am fully in solidarity with my committee colleagues, who have invited the authors to elaborate their proposals on various drafts. With regard to tax systematization, tax optimization, double taxation, let it be a separate bill. But, my dears, don't touch the pension system, it's still imperfect in terms of commitment to people, and it's stupid to make it worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u143	Yes, Vojs, the faction of the Social Democratic Party, fourth speaker, and we will determine. [[united]] And then finally, let's ask Sergei Teryochin to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! As we are considering issues related to the simplified taxation of small businesses, the faction of the SDSI(o) would like to draw your attention to the following. We believe that small enterprise development should be a priority for public policy. The policy of strengthening the tax press on people who create jobs and thereby save their budget money cannot be continued. On the contrary, small business should receive State support, including through simplified taxation. The Faction of the SDR (O) has on several occasions taken initiatives to support small business. Thus, members of the faction introduced a bill in 2003 to restore the form of simplified taxation, such as a special trade patent. Regrettably, in 2004, it was successfully failed, including by the authors of the bill from the faction “Our Ukraine”. Today we note as positive that "Our Ukraine" has finally changed its views on small business issues. We hope that the members of this faction will now support the bill we have tabled on the introduction of a resort patent allowing small businesses to develop in the resort territories and providing local budgets with a reliable source of income. Now on Bill 6477. The Faction of the FPA notes as a positive moment the fact that an attempt has been made to address the issue of payment of pension contributions and social insurance contributions by entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, that's the way it all ends. The proposed increase in contributions to various funds for the business sector that have selected a specific tax system is indeed not offset by a 40 per cent reduction in the single fixed tax rate. That is, the bill actually provides for a higher tax burden on entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified tax system. Moreover, the introduction of a payment separately from a single and fixed tax on contributions to the Pension Fund and other funds requires that entities maintain additional accounting, as well as reporting and reporting to those funds. Thus, the draft law does not correspond to the ideology of the simplified taxation system itself, which provides for the payment of various taxes and taxes and taxes and exempts businesses from the need for tax accounting and related reporting. It can therefore be concluded that the bill exacerbates the situation of entrepreneurs who have chosen a simplified form of taxation and contributes to their concealment of income. The questions raised by my colleagues are also raised: the loss of local budgets and the adoption of the bill reducing uniform and fixed taxes. The faction of the SDPI(o) proposes to reject the bill and to draft a bill that is comprehensively decisive in small business, including pension and social insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u145	Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, please as one of the authors of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u146	Honourable National MPs, in view of the adoption of the Law on Public Pensions, came into existence when subjects of simplified taxation systems, namely fixed taxes and a single tax, began paying contributions twice to the Pension Fund, on the one hand, in the structure of fixed and single taxes, on the other hand, to the payroll fund. The bill just proposes that double taxation be lifted. More than that, please tell us how a person who pays a fixed tax will determine the payroll fund. I remind you that he pays between 20 and 200 dollars and he doesn't keep any more accounts or work accounts. On the other hand, you hear from the Communist masters that it is necessary to break down a completely small business, forcing everyone to pay 32 percent, which is absolutely indispensable for simplified systems. On the other hand, you hear from the representatives of the Social Democratic Party that you have to leave things the way it was before January 1st of that year and not include hired subjects in simplified taxation systems in general pension reform. [[united]] This bill offers a compromise between these two extreme points of view. Among other things, he agreed to make it clear to everyone that there are representatives of small and medium - size business, which is a written testimony. That's why I have an offer. To relieve the tension on certain issues related to the bill, send it back for rereading. Please let not only the Committee on Pensioners and Disabled Persons take care of this bill, but also those who protect simplified systems and provide for the development of tax legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u147	Thank you, too, Sergey Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, with a motive, please, Igor Mikhailovich Šurma. Then Michaela Nightshenko, then Mastermaster, then Carmagazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u148	Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Democratic Ukraine MP, 160 Glukhivski, Sumščina. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm on my way. Our group will support all the bills that will eliminate double taxation. But today our committee of profile has not drawn its budgetary conclusions because there was little time, and this is a gross violation of the bill procedure. It's different. The Committee on Budgets did not propose that it be considered in short - term terms. We have experienced that the reporter is speaking at the very end. There is no way for an MP to think about the essence of the law. There is a request to no longer put such socially meaningful bills under reduced procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u150	Master, faction of the People's Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u151	Vladimir Masterskin, District 14, Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues! I want to talk to all of us. Deputies! Be vigilant. The last week of the Supreme Council's work tells us that we're working at about 1 billion dollars an hour from the budget. I encourage you to think that we're going to give you the kind of socially meaningful laws that we're considering today, and I'm absolutely convinced that they're at the moment, and we need to take care of, on the one hand, pensioners, on the other hand, entrepreneurs. But let's note that this bill is aimed at quietly robbing local budgets. And if that's the case, let's think about it right here in the center. Let's make this change to the Budget Act, and let's not drag this short robe back into ourselves, like the socially meaningful things we're proposing, and still considerately respond to the fact that suffering, first of all, will be the local budgets. So I suggest we move all of this to the budget changes that are now being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u152	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think that Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin has taken a wise step by asking the bill to re-read it, precisely because I believe that this bill foresees an increase in tax burden on operators who have chosen a simplified system of taxation. At the same time, it is also necessary to settle the issue of the State Foundation for Unemployment and Temporary Loss of Incapacity and Social Insurance against Accidents, the Pension Fund. That is to say, all of this needs to be reconciled and, so far, in the way he is, he is making things worse for those who have chosen a special form of taxation and are contributing to the concealment of their incomes. So I think the first reading over and over again is the best way out of this right now. He's not destroying the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u154	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Communist faction. Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons Zybenko. Here one of the drafters of the bill who recently spoke from the rostrum struggled over how the Communists voted? I mean, the Communists vote right. And I'd like to suggest to the authors that, by the way, we had a representative of the Xenius Lapin State Committee present at the committee meeting. And we came out together, and we thought that the problem he was talking about was from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and it really is, to separate them into a separate bill, to submit them to the Supreme Council Hall, and I have no doubt that this problem will be accepted. That's why I told you, when I said that you don't have to go through a few problems. The problem discussed by the drafters of the bill is to submit it as a separate one, and I have no doubt that this problem will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u156	Yes. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u157	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, indeed, there is a problem, it needs to be resolved, legislatively regulated, but perhaps not in the way it is proposed. Why? Because the adoption of this bill can lead to the real loss of the Pension Fund. The salary for the Pension Fund is going to be an inadequate real salary. And that's why we have to predict such changes so that they don't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u158	Katerina Fomenko. The Union MP group, the last to speak on the grounds of the vote. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u159	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to make a point. There is no loss of local budgets. Yes, these taxes are the incomes of the first basket, which are regulated by the state budget of Ukraine. If local budgets bear losses from these taxes if they are reduced, the State Budget thus makes its proposals and increases the additional grant that comes directly to local budgets. I emphasize that this is not about the loss of local budgets, but rather about the loss or additional costs of Ukraine’s State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-03-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee recommends the adoption of a draft law. Then there's the voting proposal, I'll tell you again, it's written and underlined, on the basis of acceptance. I then put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the order of payment of a single or fixed tax, as well as insurance contributions to general government social security and public pension insurance by subjects of simplified taxation, accounting and reporting systems. [[Registration number 6477]] Please vote. [[12:57:23]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The second proposal is to re-read the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the order of payment of a single or fixed tax, as well as insurance contributions to compulsory public social security and public pension insurance by subjects of simplified taxation, accounting and reporting systems. [[Registration number 6477]] [[12:58:06]] For-73 The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the drafters, as well as at the request of the committee, we postpone consideration of the bills to be considered now, the registration numbers: 5,200, 5200-1. We're both passing bills. Dear colleagues, in this way we have considered all the issues that we should have considered, except for the first and the main ones, to which we will return at 16 o'clock. Now, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am announcing the replacement of the name of the MP group "Industries and Entrepreneurs" - "The Will of the People" to simply "The Will of the People". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy Rudkovsky Dmitry of Alexanderovich from the MP group "Industries and Entrepreneurs" - "The Will of the People" and his membership in the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform Ukraine's national deputies Dashutin Grigori Petrovic and Iofphe Yulia Jaković of the MP's "DP-Republic" and their membership in the "will of the people" group. One more minute. Announcement. On joining the faction of Democratic Ukraine's Democratic Group, Kukoba Anatolia Tikhović and Polakova Larissa Evgenovna report on their exit from the MP's faction of the NDP and the Republican Group and their membership in the Democratic Ukraine's Democratic Group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All announcements made. Dear colleagues, at 16 o'clock we will discuss the issue of giving consent to the appointment of Yulia Timoshenko Prime Minister of Ukraine. Then we have every reason to declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed, which is what I do. Break till 4:00. At 4: 00 a.m., we begin our consideration of the matter. Please be in the session room. Thank you.
