ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:35:45.]] There are 365 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Dear colleagues, there has just been a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers where a program of government has been adopted. There is now a meeting of the Committee of Profiles, our Supreme Council, on economic policy and governance of the national economy. Just a few minutes -- they're going to finish this session, and we're going to be able to get into the order of our meeting today. So I'm going to call it a 16-hour break for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u2	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can get started. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Oh, we've already opened the meeting. I'm sorry. We were just taking a little break. We continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that during the recess, there was a meeting of the government with the participation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. There was a discussion about the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers "Meet People." The minister’s office approved the program, and it was handed over to the committee. In fact, you've already looked at these documents, we've discussed them, the committee's made the right decision, so now it's suggested that we organize our work in this way. Consider the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the consideration of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers "Meet People" on February 4, 2004, which is today at the evening meeting. So please prepare for the vote. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda of the day meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the consideration of the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on "Meet the People" at the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4, 2005 is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[16:54:32]] For 337 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Such a procedure is proposed. Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko will report on the results of the government meeting. If there are any questions, we can answer the questions, but we have discussed the matter in fact. After that, the Committee on Economic Policy will make a statement to Vladimir Demjochin, who will express his position on the committee. We will continue to make decisions if there are no warnings. No warning? Please, Julia Volodymyr, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please take the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u3	Dear National Deputies! It was just during the break that the first session of the Ukrainian government took place with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, with the participation of the heads of factions of the committee heads. During this meeting, the government discussed all the components of the Human Meeting Program, which was proposed by the government. Appropriate adjustments were made if necessary. The discussion took place, and the government supported the program. And from the point of view of the legal procedure, all the elements are kept. Today the program is approved by the government. After that, there was a meeting of a committee of profile led by the People's Deputy Demjochin, and we made such proposals together that, of course, the programme that was proposed was an economic, financial, legal, regulatory field for any sector to develop in this field, any enterprise, so that any human life could be built in this environment. For the first time in the program, they moved away from the industry principle and moved on to building an even, competitive, beautiful financial and economic relationship for every sector that is in Ukraine. And then we agreed that we would literally start with the factions on Monday, along with the committees, to work out a deep, detailed program of first-line action that will be implemented in society during the implementation of the Program, and we will do it absolutely transparently, in consultation with each of us. And our task with you is to make this first-line program the most effective, most constructive, most harmonious we've ever had in our time together. I'm sure we can do that and start doing it on Monday. And so, I'm asking you right now that, once he announces his decision, a professional committee to support the government's "Meet People" program and start a fruitful joint work. Because the level of voting that took place after my approval, and I thank you very much for this level of voting, it shows that there have been consolidation processes in society and in Parliament. And you and I can make a great team together. And you know that society from a new power, and Parliament is also a member of power, is waiting for miracles, in organizing social standards, in legal standards of life, and we have to give this miracle to our country. And I'm asking you to be co-conspirators here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u4	Yes, Julia Volodymyrna, can you take the Prime Minister's place and you've already taken it? Yeah? Because I can't see, not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u5	I took it before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u6	Yes. Dear colleagues, we are now invited to the rostrum. Aah! Is there a question? Please sign up for a question to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question, then Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u7	Dear Julia Volodymyr, I am very pleased to hear your speech and the results of the vote for your candidacy, and with great interest have looked at the list that your cursed friends who voted for you. I'm sure these friends, starting with Shufric and ending up with the Communists, will vote as friendlyly for your program. But I want to point out that there have been a lot of laws that have been passed in the last week. Some want you to build communism, some want you to do a 13-year-old program to destroy Ukraine. Please establish a relationship with Parliament so that this Program will show all Ukrainian people how to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u8	I ask Eugene Hoornik not to provoke conflicts in the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council is making a decision. Let's be tolerant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u9	You know, I want to start by saying that we all need to learn to live after the elections, we need to find in our heart forgiveness for each other and find all the reasons for getting rid of the conflicts. I ask that we forget all these confrontations in the elections and start serving together and that there be no insults or humiliations in our hall. That's what I really want. Because our consolidation will begin with the consolidation of society in Ukraine. As for the bill that will be voted on by the Supreme Council. We're literally going to have a government representative in the Supreme Council on Monday. And it will be the person who on equal terms can cooperate with both the former opposition and the former authority, with the new authority. And we're going to expect that the opposition is not going to be that much, we're all going to work together. And we're all going to vote, we're just going to try to harmonise this process so that laws that aren't funded in the budget aren't passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u10	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, this apparently means that the Minister for Relations with the Supreme Council, such a position, will be abolished. Perhaps you should keep them informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u11	Yes, we will have no minister in connection with the Supreme Council, but we will have a government representative in the Supreme Council. It will be one of the national deputies. And in general, we're going to reduce the extra ministries, the committees that don't make any sense to the governance process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u12	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, Communist faction. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u13	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Communists of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the government declaration. Because it's about that program, at least there have to be a few elements that belong to the program. This is the goal, the instrumentation by which this goal is achieved, and the control numbers by which it can be verified. Unfortunately, all these elements are not in this document. And two, which is why I took the floor. I would like to inform my colleague that a faction meeting took place between the early and evening sessions, at which a decision was taken on the outcome of the vote for the approval of the Prime Minister of Ukraine by the faction's decision to exclude Anatoly Mikolaiovich, Olijnik Boris Illich and Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovitch from the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u14	Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u15	You know, I just realized that we're going to have a real communist opposition to the government. And that's not bad, by the way. Because the government needs to be monitored, the government needs to be evaluated, the government needs to be criticized, otherwise we will relax and stop working properly. And the people who have been expelled, I think they will find their place in the political forces that will be Ukraine and who want to dedicate their lives to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u16	Mikola Yankowski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Julia Volodymyr, the program is really very conceptual. So I have a more specific question. What government actions or intentions will be at the time of market price regulation? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u18	Dear price friends, it was always a market category. And I don't think the government is going to correct anything in manual mode. But with regard to products that consume the population, we're going to be doing a deep policy of intervention so that we don't create monopolies, so that monopolies don't stifle the real economy, and that people have the opportunity to get the food they need at real prices. As far as energy is concerned. Where prices are monopolies, tariffs, that's where we're going to study the structure of tariffs. And I'm sure we'll find all the possibilities there for tariffs to coincide with the family's ability to pay for gas, water, electricity, light, etc.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u19	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable Julia Volodymyrna, chapter five of the Government Programme, refers to an extremely complex problem for both every citizen and our nation. It's called "Safety." But we often associate the word "safety," with this term military security, military security, recently we've started talking more about environmental security. But security is an extremely broad concept and a problem. Recently, I have been deeply troubled by such things as Ukraine’s information security. You, I know, are all concerned with Ukraine's energy security. It is clear that the program has compressed and could not find everything. I would like to hear how you see the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u21	The fifth chapter of the Security Program is made in the content of "security," and so all the issues related to Ukraine's security are reflected in this chapter, to make an army capable of protecting our borders. All the other security features, and you're actually absolutely right, because there's a huge amount of security. They are related to other sections of this program. And in general, I think about the concept of security, and the main measures, the decisions, the programs, they certainly have to be done in Ukraine. And we will, I'm sure, do it with you because I know you're a deep expert in the country's security system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u22	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Demökhin is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u23	Honourable President of Ukraine, Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Fellow People's Deputies, Reappointed Government, Guests! For your consideration, the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been endorsed by the people. The strategic goal set by the new Government, such as the achievement of a new quality of life for citizens, the protection of their rights and freedoms, i.e. in essence, the well-being of all Ukrainian citizens, is the most fundamental unit of union, the most fundamental unifying idea in the country. Today, we need an idea that will bring together differing views as a result of the elections. The programme presents the main strategic directions and frameworks for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, in accordance with article 85 of the Ukrainian Constitution, we are considering a draft programme of activities for the Cabinet of Ministers. The distinctive features of the programme are to radically restructure the relationship between the authorities and the citizen on the basis of the principle of justice. This principle is subject, inter alia, to all economic and economic policies. For reasons of fairness, the Cabinet of Ministers'intention is to further reform property relations, taxation, market entry, income protection and investment. The programme is designed to combat corruption and criminalize the economic system. The idea of the programme is in line with the current demands and expectations of the majority of the population of Ukraine. The programme addressed more broadly changes in the financial sector and further steps towards fiscal policy reform. In general, it must be said that the financial unit in the programme is most professional. Among the basic concepts of the programme are the establishment of a comfortable environment for an enterprise initiative, which is a prerequisite for a stable economy and society. The proposed measures are sufficiently complex, although they are not new in most cases. However, if they are implemented in practice, and the owner is indeed saving legal protection, this will be a qualitative breakthrough for a civilized European society. It can be concluded from the programme provisions that the Government will continue to deal with privatization issues with more restraint, caution, caution. The programme focuses on the effectiveness of privatization actions and the management of the person. It is expected that the key points of the ownership reform strategy will be set out in the new privatization programme, which requires the Government to act swiftly to prepare the programme so that we can consider it more quickly here. In general, this privatization programme was still needed the day before yesterday. The principle of equity is also present in the new regional policy. The Government assumed the responsibility to move from the declarations on administrative reform to concrete steps. We see that even the position of Vice-Prime Minister for Administrative Reform has emerged. These steps should lead to greater efficiency and confidence on the part of the public in the work of the executive branch. I would like to believe that the reform agenda will allow the public machine to work to meet the demands and needs of citizens rather than to exist for the convenience of officials and individual clans. The programme sets out sections “Industry and investment policy”, “Extra technologies”, “EC”, “APC”. Good intentions to reinvigorate industrial and investment policies, enhance their role in upgrading productive capacities and reorient key sectors of the economy into higher technological systems. There is still much to be said about the positive developments in this programme, but I would like to point out a number of shortcomings. In my view and in the view of our Committee, these shortcomings are serious enough. The programme does not fully reflect the attitude towards special economic zones and priority development territories as an economic instrument to address the problems of depressed territories and to implement innovative policies. Besides tech parks and technopolis, there's nothing more on the program. How - it is not clear - a protectionist policy for the domestic producer will be pursued. Is that in line with the task of joining the World Trade Organization? The programme refers to a systemic approach, but there is no mention of which methodological equipment is used, whether the techniques used will be based on outdated approaches. The most important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u24	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u25	The most important question is to inform our society. That is indeed a key question. You know that the Supreme Council has adopted fundamental laws in this respect, it's an electronic digital pid, it's an electronic document. They were adopted more than two years ago. Thus, the programme refers to critical information issues but does not specify ways. Indeed, to this day, no provision of the laws we passed two years ago has been implemented. The reason is banal. On the one hand, the budget does not provide the necessary funds, and on the other, government officials are afraid of attracting private capital, investment, and the loss of what does not fully inform society is billions. I'm not exaggerating. Regarding agrarian policy. The programme lacks several main positions - how to help the producer effectively and purposefully, how to use modern hashing techniques to stabilize fuel prices, fertilizers and crops. And now we're going to have this problem. How to provide technology to the village of domestic production? The issue of land ownership is a key issue. What will be the position of the Government in this regard? We're dealing with energy. There are no ways of diversifying the supply of energy carriers, especially the price issues. For example, the question of the price of nuclear fuel. Why do we buy it at more than twice the world's price, having the birthplace of East in our territory." which is able to provide uranium not only to us but also to export? At the same time, we're not going to have $1,200, we're going to have $500, if not less. Energy and resource issues are intertwined with environmental issues. At the same time, engineering, aircraft, construction, and metal industry issues have been completely overlooked. The most important issue of tariff policy is not only lost in housing and utilities, in energy, in transport. This is the basis for the economic development of these industries today. There is even no conceptual view of tariff policy. It's about defense. Critical issues of social protection for the military and veterans, as well as the issue of patriotic education, the moral spirit of the army, how to address housing for soldiers and veterans, have been lost. The solution to social issues is the most effective means of patriotic education. There were a number of comments on the committee, but most importantly, the Committee decided to “approve the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine’s Programme of Action for People’s Meeting”. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, when working and taking annual measures to ensure the implementation of the People's Meeting Programme, should be included in the funding provided for by the National Budget of Ukraine Act for the corresponding year of observations and proposals made by the Ukrainian People's Deputies during its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Periodically, according to the results of his six - year work, report to the Supreme Council Ukraine's "Meet People" program. And there's another item that you have on your hands: for a month, the Cabinet of Ministers develop and present to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Social and Economic Development Programme. In conclusion, the issue of the adoption of the Government Programme has not been sufficiently addressed by law. The Committee therefore decided also to draft and introduce a bill that would allow for an appropriate systemic approach. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u26	Thank you, Your Honor. The report from the committee has been completed. We signed up for the talk of Cherniak, John the Rabbit, Masters, and Carmazin. Who among those who signed up insists on the talk? They insist. Let's take another 10 minutes, dear fellows. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u27	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Madam Prime Minister! Dear government! Dear National Deputies! There are so many of these words in the program that the breast rises higher and the heart beats harder. But I don't think there's another word in it that should be there. I would describe the program in three words: dreams, faith, and enthusiasm. Only with enthusiasm can this program be implemented. And that's how much enthusiasm there is in the government, and I want him to have enough enthusiasm to do this program. Enthusiasm is a fuel for the reform engine. Nothing great in the world has been done without enthusiasm. And I have, and I'm happy that in the government, enthusiasm, in my opinion, exists and God forbid you get enough of it. The task is to ensure a new quality of life, and the new quality of life can be ensured only on the basis of a new quality of authority. I would also like to focus on this, not only on personnel change, but we need to ensure a new quality of power. And only on this basis will a new quality of life be possible. The next moment. In my opinion, there is now a need, a need for a major strategic manoeuvre in economic and social policy. This major strategic manoeuvre involves moving to a socio-market economy, moving to an innovation and investment model of economic growth and making mature institutional and structural changes. Oh, only in the population will this give a major strategic maneuver that will ensure the achievement of the goal of the program. And lastly, the orange revolution is just the beginning, the orange revolution has to be complemented by a socio-economic revolution. If this is not done, the orange revolution will be discredited. If we don't want this to happen, so let's enthusiastically continue the orange revolution and turn it into a socio-economic revolution, we're going to make a major strategic maneuver on the basis of which we're going to improve the quality of life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, no one insists on the performance? No, it's not. John the Rabbit insists. Well, please, Ivan Alexanderovich the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u29	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the government. I welcome the Prime Minister's desire to lay the very philosophy behind the Government's Action Programme. And I see that this philosophy can be deepened so that economic governance can improve, social governance can improve. What do I mean? I mean, what's finally necessary is to propose a governance model for Ukraine's continuous development, what's going on today in all civilized countries. And in terms of this or the implementation of this pattern of sustainable development of Ukraine, I would suggest an eco-social market economy. Because if we take our views to the economic side or to the social side and ignore the limitations of a natural nature today, we will deprive Ukraine of resources for the future, we will deprive our people of a healthy environment. So it seems to me that in this direction the government should work very well and deepen, because that is the model that our government will require Euro-Atlantic integration. Nobody's going to talk about Ukraine's membership in the European Union today unless we start an eco-social market economy if we don't solve environmental problems if we don't create an integrated system for managing natural resources. To date, we have a classic system of natural resources management. It's when a single natural resource is created by a central executive authority that regulates the use of this resource, which controls the use of this resource, which performs an inspection function in relation to these resources. We take the forest, we have the Derzcomliss, we take the land, we have the Statecombe, we take the water, we have the State Guide, we take the nadrama, we have the Natural Resources Committee. And what I have heard here today is that today there is a political will in our government just to unify the Committee at large with the Ministry of Ecology. That won't be enough. So I want the government to listen to this proposal. And I want us to have a constant development model, and I want a concrete implementation of this model to be an eco-social market economy. It is on these roads that we can build a rich, prosperous Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the session room. Carmazine insists. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u31	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Your Honor, I'd like to address you and ask you. To supplement the program with inventory of all the national property that is still there. One. The other one. I'd like to ask you to take an inventory, Your Honor Julia Volodymyrna, of the land. Invent the earth. So here are some examples that at the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences here in Kiev, they're taking decisions, they're removing land that's been in constant subordination of the Scientific Research Institute of Gardening, the land plots in the Samburka, the Bulgarian, the Kitajovo, where the monasteries are standing. It's all handed out. I'm asking you to invent it. Write in the program: do inventory of everything there is, because it's just something scary that's happening. Now, about the other one. About the financial control system. I'm asking the government and the people responsible for this to go back to those bills that I passed two years ago, which included mergers and tax administrations, and the Audit Office, and the State Department, and customs in one body responsible for finance, the Ministry of Finance at the level of the Department. We're going to achieve both contractions and transparency and bureaucraticism and everything else, and we're going to use the world experience. I would like to remove something from the section "Court Reform," because under the Constitution, the judiciary is independent. I'm already asking the President to pay attention to this and to this end of corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, how are you going to deal with corruption if you are now headed by the Attorney General's Office, a man reinstated in office, allegedly reinstated by the decision of a Judge of the Pecer Court, contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Court and so on. All appointments are illegal, all criminal offences are illegal. This can be put to the test. Besides everything else, we lose prestige, you don't understand what's going on, those who don't want to make the right decision. So the fight against corruption must begin from the very top. I really liked what the President said today. I'd like the government to help do that, and we, the MPs, will help with the legislative provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u32	Yes, thank you. Honorable national MPs, all who have shown a desire to speak in the discussion of the Program, have taken advantage of that right. Now please prepare for the vote. We have also registered three draft decrees on the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. It's actually a project from the profile committee, which was sponsored by Alexander Alexander Moroz, and a project proposed by the government. According to the registration, the committee's project is the first to register, taking into account the proposals and positions of all other projects. I'll read it now. This is a project by the Supreme Council Decree 7048 on the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: Meet People. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. To endorse the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action "To Meet People". Second, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, when working and taking annual measures to ensure the implementation of the People's Meeting Programme, should be included in the funding provided for by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question, the observations and proposals made by the People's Deputies during its consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then, periodically, as a result of your six-year work, report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the Human Meeting Program. So, your honor, if you don't mind, I'll put it in accordance with the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Demjochin, head of the committee. First deputy head of the committee, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u33	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee decided to recommend, add another paragraph: within a month, that the Government submit to the Supreme Council a programme for economic and social development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u34	Yeah, no objection? Is the government ready? Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u35	We fully agree and ask to support the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-04-m1.u36	So, dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the programme of action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "To meet the people," which I read, taking into account the addition of the Committee on Economic Policy. Registration number 7048. Please vote. [[17:28:44]] For three hundred The program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is approved. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for proposals that are from the National MPs, clarifications, recommendations for action plans that will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers to submit to the Secretariat so that we can generalize them and transfer them to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that February 8th will be the day of the government. On February 16 and 23, we have parliamentary hearings, and the plenary session will begin on March 1st this year. We've been working for three weeks on committees, factions and groups, also in the districts, in order to work on the necessary documents for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask the heads of government, the heads of factions and groups, the heads of committees to meet in the conference room for a brief meeting. People's deputies, I think they can hold such a meeting under the usual scheme. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you for your fruitful work.
