ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[16:00:55]] There are 404 deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Yes, dear fellows, we need to get into the agenda and consider a reduced procedure. But you're happy, it's your business, you can consult. But as far as I was concerned, all the questions and problems they posed were solved in the session room. They've got as much as they can get. Talk with those who have not supported you and who have been supported or not supported. Well, it's not the Chief's business to settle your deals with factions and groups. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to Ukraine's Laws on State Executive Service and Executive Conduct is being heeded. [[on composition and competence]] Registration number 7631. This is the chapter on inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the reduced procedure. " I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Please vote. [[16:02:26]] For 155 By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 37, Communists - 22, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, People's Party - 24, Block Timoshenko - 26, Socialist - 13, Ukrainian People's Party - 8, Social Democrats - 0, "Democratic Ukraine", "One Ukraine" - 0, Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4 non-fractional - 8. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again. I understand the problems after 16 hours. But we've got 16.03 hours to get to the work rhythm. So please, I'm betting on the vote. But the point is not to be tired of inviting, there's more than 400 votes. At 40 votes, it's enough, it's just insignificant, it's probably a little confusing that some of the deputies are at the rostrum. We are moving on to consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the reduced procedure. I now put to the vote a government bill on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Act on State Enforcement and Enforcement of Composition and Competence. This is registration number 7631. Please vote in favour of including him in the agenda. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[16:04:22]] For 259. Questions for the day’s consideration are included, and we will consider. Dear colleagues, those standing by the rostrum, those standing by the rostrum. As I was informed by the head who is now meeting with the speaker of the Lower House of the Philippines Parliament, whom I have recently met at the airport, all the questions that you have asked the session room have been considered. We need to talk about it, we need to talk about it, and we need to talk about it, and we need to talk about it with a motive, because we're already in order to deal with it, we can't interrupt it. So in 15 minutes we'll be done with this, I'm sure. Well, you guys stop. Then please turn Roman Mikhailovich on from the site within 3 minutes, please inform. Prepare Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I have a prepared report that I'm not going to read, because I'd like you to really take a look at the question that is being suggested to you right now. It is the State’s executive service and the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. Very many of the Ukrainian national deputies approach me, to the Minister of Justice, by the way, they also send many requests, appeals and so forth to the Ministry of Justice, similar to complaints about the work of the State Executive Service. According to current legislation, the State’s executive service is not only vertical, for example, to the central apparatus of the Ministry of Justice, but also horizontally subordinated to the local director of the Administration of Justice and, in turn, also responds to the local head of the State Administration or to local authorities of local self - government. This system creates a lot of problems because it allows you to constantly intervene in the work of the State Executive Service at a horizontal administrative level by local governors, heads of local government administrations, local prosecutors, tax, internal affairs, and so forth. I'd like you to understand what that led to. Today, 33 billion dollars are to be collected. Over the past six months, this figure has increased by nearly nine billion dollars. We are now on the verge of disaster if we do not quickly introduce reform into this system. What's proposed. This bill proposes to remove from the judiciary the state executive service and create a separate clear vertical to prevent any interference with the work of the State executive service, so that the Ministry of Justice can ensure the execution of judicial decisions solely on one ground: the law. No phone calls, no wall service. One reasoning, as stated in the law, will be done by the State’s executive service. I'm asking you very much, I'm just asking you to adopt this law not only on the first reading, but also on the whole. This is the position of the profiling committee that considered this bill yesterday, the recommendation will -- accept it as a whole. It's the only one now for the stenographer. The Science and Experimental Authority made one observation, which is not of a principled nature, which refers to making it more clearly enshrined in the law, so that control of the State Executive Service is ensured by the Ministry of Justice. Since the State Executive Service remains a government body within the Ministry of Justice, of course, I would absolutely like to make that clear to you now, for a stenographer, I note that we are ready to include this observation, which is not of the principle character of the Scientific and Experimental Administration in this bill. So it is inevitable that my request to be able to ensure the work of this service is not allowed during the summer of the collapse of the state executive service to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general. I'm ready to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u3	Thank you. You may answer, but we have a reduced procedure, there will be no questions, fortunately. Yes, please, from the committee Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The minister of justice spoke quite convincingly here about the need to reform the State’s executive service. Recall that this recent State executive service was as judicial executioners in the courts. We have adopted appropriate laws and established a national executive service, but today we see many shortcomings in our actions. And we are on the committee, and often, as national advocates, people are complaining about actions or public executions, or bad actions, or bad results, but also objective factors. You should know that in the last year, there were 8 million government executives. Executive service of 7,000 performers, 7 thousand and 100. Indeed, more than 330 billion dollars are spent on court decisions. But given that there's alimony in here, by disability and other, actually this number is going to increase by one and a half times. Can this small number of people solve the questions that lie before them? No, it's not. Therefore, the committee unanimously supported the position of the Ministry of Justice on reform of the State executive service. What's more, dear fellows, we want to change conceptually with the Ministow himself. We would like her to be in the courier service, for today messages are being sent, messages are being sent to the courts, and in fact, the legal machine is working in a laxative. Dozens of cases are delayed. We'd like government contractors to look for assets, funds, and today it's a big problem, to learn, but it's in the future. For us to have this prospect, we need to adopt this law today. And the committee supports the position of the Ministry of Justice, thanks for drafting this bill. And I think it needs to be taken as a basis, and in general, so that during this time, during the summer holidays, the Ministry of Justice will be able to do the right thing, and in autumn we will take the next steps to reform this important public service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u5	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I think we should listen to the opinion of the two ministers, and the former minister of justice, and now acting, and we will vote. Do they insist on discussing it? Please, now, just a minute. Yuri Karmazin Anatoliyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u6	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Legal Policy for the first time is probably not many times when it recommends the adoption of a bill in the first and second readings. That's exactly the same thing. We don't just have a brutal failure to execute court decisions on behalf of Ukraine right now. We've had more paradoxical situations where in the town of Bachmach of Chernigiv County, illegally removed from the post of mayors, the court's decisions are not implemented. A decision that is subject to immediate execution. It says, "at the part of renewal at work, it's subject to immediate execution." A similar decision in the Luhansk region of the city of Red Light, where the renewed mayor is also not implemented. So let's adopt this Law now in the first and second readings and ask everything with m
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u7	Yes, please, Vladimir Novak, microphone. He's blacked out after him, and then he's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u8	Dear friends, I have been thoroughly familiar with the draft Law and I want to say that it is really necessary, because what our executive service has become today in Ukraine, with neither intelligence nor with the heart. Let me give you just one example, do you understand what's being done, the statistics show 40% of the decisions of the Ukrainian courts? What rule of the Law can be discussed in such a situation? For 10 years now, he has been fighting for his rights in the Hmelnicke district of the Polonian Association for the Production of Art Production. All the courts have passed, judging the frauds who robbed them, even the Supreme Court’s decisions have been made in favour of the labour force. But this decision has not yet been implemented. The executive service finds various reasons, essentially ignoring the decision. In view of all of this, the law must be adopted. If this is the law, we may be able to order and enforce the decisions of the courts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall. Microphone. He's got Vitaly Shibko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I won't be original either. All those who had little to do with the voter’s complaints know that complaints about performing the service go, in fact, into a waltz. The first is absolute inoperability. Second, the unwillingness to carry out their duties. Third is colossal corruption. In this way, when these services are now fully under the control of local administrations and, in fact, only perform when there is a direct order, they also acquire not only such but also brutal political taste. I've made a major assessment for myself on whether or not such changes will bring about a situation where political pressure can be used or changed. I don't think there's any worse than there is right now. And now we don't even have anyone to ask. Changes like those to me can lead to a serious improvement, at least to the operationality of the work, and can improve the integrity of this service. I also support adoption as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u11	Vitaly Shibko. He's been followed by Cherniak Volodymir. Let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u12	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Roman Mikhailovich, you remember that I also spoke to you several times about the work of the executive service, especially the cities of Dnipropetrovska, Dniprožinska. It's a really terrible situation. And I think that maybe this law, I emphasize, maybe this law should reform something in the performance of the executive service. I'm going to say that our faction, once introduced to this law, decided to support it. But I would like to point out that not only does it depend on the local authorities of the state to be the perpetrator of the bribe or not. All of this will depend on how this ministry will work in general. That's the first one. And the second. Still, I think there's still a question to be settled: and how sometimes the courts decide the matter after the executive service has gone there, and whoever has to pay for it has sold it all out, and it's not. This too should be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u13	Nigger's giving his word to Ratushna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the discussion has shown that the various factions and the majority of the opposition support the bill. This is another testimony that in this way we will ensure that the decisions of the courts are executed. Because if the decisions of the courts are not implemented, that means that one branch of authority does not work. I also propose to the Ukrainian People's Party, as the Ministry of Justice suggests, to put this to two votes. I think that the consolidated position that emerged in the discussion will appear during the vote. It's a question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Before the vote, I again address the minister. As I understand it, the Ministry is ready to accept the comments of the Science and Technology Administration. Yeah? So once again, dear fellows, no one would deny that we should immediately adopt it as a law? No, it's not. Then I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law and taking into account the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Ukraine's Laws on State Enforcement Service and on Executive Conduct on Composition and Competence. Bill number 7631. Please vote. [[16:19:44]] For 381 The law is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed to complete our consideration of the matter, then I will be able to step out of the procedure. Please, suffrage microphone, then ice cream. Don't get excited. Then let's write it down and exchange our thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you see now that you have decorated the podium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The only thing they forgot to say was, "They're wanted by the Kyiv Court of Appeal, and they're very much awaited by their colleagues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine." I think we should help our colleagues to join the MPs as quickly as possible and to vote on bills that today have not literally raised a few votes, but that I can honestly and frankly say, as always united social Democrats do, we will not leave the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum until the question of accomplices is resolved. It's a disgrace to you and me. It's a disgrace to all of Ukrainian society. And I am convinced that today we have no right to ignore that process of ignoring the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine that they are doing today, unfortunately, for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u17	Yes, please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, before noon we were discussing the inclusion in the order of the day of the issue of a law that deals with a list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization. I would like to take a closer look at this law. In the break it became clear that part of the factions, including the respectable faction that Nestor Ivanovich Shufrich now represents, and the faction of the "Regions" simply did not get into the question or vote in favour of the inclusion of the issue in the order of the day. And I think that it needs to be included now, because by trying to please, let's say, the conjuncture of today, to find the budget for today's budget, we can kill everything that gives us a chance for Ukraine. I can only give you one example. To bet on privatisation today by Turboat, a monopolist, the only enterprise in a world like this, I think it's just nonsense, we don't have to ruin everything in our economy anymore. Please let us vote on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u19	Yes, dear fellows, I remind you once again that we have voted on these issues on more than one occasion. A problem has arisen again, so please write down, and let us exchange our thoughts on this subject. On this point, let's exchange thoughts, please record for five minutes. Yes. Kostinuk is in the Council of Europe. Please. Well, you have no right to press his button according to the Constitution. Yes, please, Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u20	I beg you to pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u21	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u22	Thank you very much, colleague. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Let's go back with you a few months ago to November and December of the month and remember how the issues that led to the so-called so-called so-called "orange" revolution were suppressed. Those parents of the "orange" revolution who forcefully put the whole of Ukraine to their knees, they are now appealing to the Constitution, to the laws outside, and they're actually violators like Kuchma and his environment: "You're both a pair of boots!".. So I propose to return to today until the question with the co-sponsors is resolved before the draft ruling is considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u23	Yes. Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u24	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Sulkovski Pavl Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u25	Paul Sulkowski, please, microphone. After him, Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, before lunch, I made a proposal that at 16 hours, Adam Ivanovich, because the national deputies were before the lunch break, there were virtually no more deputies in the hall -- and this project was not voted on, so there is a request: ask Adam Ivanovich, once again to vote that these violations of the Constitution and of the law of Ukraine should no longer be allowed to embezzle those accomplices who do not earn these costs. We better get this money to the hospital, to the children's homes, and so on. We're in a state where we can set up funds to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u27	Please, Korge, the faction of Block Tymoshenko. Frost Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Levko Lukyanenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u29	Left - handed lukewarm microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u30	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again the position that concerns all of us here in this room. The Constitution stipulates that the one who became a member of the Supreme Council is an MP. If he is appointed to a position of executive power, he will be appointed as a member of the Supreme Council. I want to say that in the history of the Ukrainian Republican Party, the Council had two very vivid examples. One: me in 1992.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u31	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue what I am going to say to Levko Grigorovich. The point is that the question of compatibility does not even need to be discussed. It's all written in the Constitution, and that's how it's supposed to be done. But there is another circumstance. I'll say about Valentina Semenyuk, for example. She's asking you to pass the State Property Fund Act. According to our legislation, there are already 8 court decisions and the executive service requires that they be executed, which are essentially criminal decisions, but under our Criminal Code, if this decision is not implemented, it can receive eight years in prison. We need to consider these details, and that's why I'm calling for the law on the State Property Fund to be passed. But it's a detail. I ask, let's vote on your law, and draft privatization law together, and put it into order, let's look at it essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u33	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian National Party has always consistently stood in the position that the Basic Law is written for all. Here we are, as a large part of who has contributed to the adoption of the Constitution, in this position we stand. We are glad that after our application Tuesday, the vast majority of the people who are now, whose portraits are posted here, have filed statements about the composition of their positions. Representatives of the Ukrainian People's Party, whose portraits are also posted here, have long written these statements, so the party will consistently abide by the Basic Law. Regardless of whether this position coincides with someone who today calls himself an opposition or someone who is inconvenient with those who today call themselves "ours." The basic law is written for all because it is fundamental. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u35	Yes, please, from "Our Ukraine" Koval microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich! National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka. Adam Ivanovich, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which acts, defines several moments when Ukrainian national deputies or factions may ask for a word before considering the bill, on the grounds of voting, on the basis of the procedure. But there can be no procedure, Adam Ivanovich, every 2 hours. I also have the faction "Our Ukraine" has a lot of questions about the unacceptable, unvoted bill that we support. But the chairman does not pay any attention to the largest faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially if a representative of another part of another faction raises his hand, he is immediately seen. Adam Ivanovich, I'm simply expressing my indignation at the faction of "Our Ukraine" by acting as chairman. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u37	Thank you. You've started much better. You've actually started by listing as a member of the Rules Committee from the list of issues to which any national MP has the right to take. And they took advantage of that right just as you did. Dear colleagues! It's clear to each of us that right now we've moved on to a chapter that's already been voted on several times, but we're still going back to these questions and we're going to put them on the table again. So let's make this happen, but let's be serious. I'm going to ask you one more question before I go back to that question. We'll support it, we'll support it. We can't support it. We'll work on our schedule. Do we have a deal? So be careful. I'll put it to a vote. Who's to go back to the Bills 7628 on the specifics of discharge of persons who combine the mandate of the People's Deputies with other activities and 7,700 on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, i.e. on voting for these projects? [[ensuring compliance with the requirements for non-conformity]] Who's to go back to voting on these projects, I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[16:31:43]] For 265 We're back. Now I'm putting it to a vote. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 56, Ukraine - 48, People's Party - 36, Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, SDP - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 20, One Ukraine - 3, Industrial, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 10, non-fractional - 16. So we went back to voting on these projects. We'll go back to the next one, I repeat: we're back to the vote, and then I'll put it to the vote. We vote these two because they're discussed, and we put the Socialists to the vote. I bet, I bet. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, don't force me to break the rules. The point is that we voted to return to the two projects. We'll vote them, and then I'll put the Socialists to the vote. I can't stop this. I repeat: no procedure. The procedure that we went back to re-voting the two Laws. We'll vote them, and then we'll make your offer. I am voting on the basis of the draft Law on the Specialities of the Liberation of Persons who Contribute to the National Deputies of Ukraine’s Other Activities, registration number 7628. Yes, please withdraw the vote, write down three minutes of the voting procedure. Dear colleagues, well, be patient, it'll be just in time. Please, Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u38	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, understood that here all are unanimous, that the people who have two mandates should put one together. There is no dispute here, it is said. But the bills that are being submitted today do not mean that they are not listed, but there are still a number of mandates for the compatible, compatible positions they hold. For example, this bill should state that there should be a parliamentary mandate, or criminal authority, of the Carpathians, or of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and some other categories and positions that we now hold very much. There are very few additional positions that have some Ukrainian national deputies. It's about what they're looking for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u39	Jaroslav, you have the opportunity to read second, if we accept, to make such proposals. Please, Maria Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u40	Maria Marcus. Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u41	Yuri Solomatin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u42	Honorable colleagues, respected compatriots. Now we have witnessed this in the vote to return to the vote, once again, that not only are there two factions under this law of the wicked violators of the Constitution who have not voted to this fair vote, it is our Ukraine and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, but the political leaders themselves, the President of Ukraine, Yuschenko and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Julia Timoshenko, who seem to have some kind of position in the Washington-Brussels Communion. Dishonor for violating Ukrainian laws and the Ukrainian Constitution! For ever and ever, Amen!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u43	I remind my honourable colleagues that we are in the Supreme Council, not in the church. Vladimir Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u44	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Perhaps we should consider extending the immunity of the national MP after the end of his term for five years. Then both these deputies, and others, will have no fear of political persecution and so forth. It'll take all the questions out of everyone's hands. Maybe that's how we get out of this coalition and vote for the MP Corps all together. I call for this, to make this amendment, and thus to remove all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u45	Volodymyr Julius Pehota, the point is that in the current Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, your proposal has already been legitimized. Not only for five years, but for all eternity, if he was a deputy and not even elected a deputy, he still has such authority or indulgence as you speak of. Not for five years, but for life. You don't have to bring anything. Yes, I'm voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Law on the Specialities of the Liberation of Persons who Contribute to the Authorisation of the National Deputy of Ukraine with Other Activities, registration number 7628. [[16:37:52]] For 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] There's a whole offer. All right, I don't, because there's a denial. We won't put it. We won't. Prepare for second reading. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. [[on ensuring compliance with the requirements concerning non-compliance of the status of the People's Deputies with other activities]] Registration number 7700. Yes, take down the vote. Take off the vote, there's a denial. Sign up, exchange, three minutes, procedure, for the reasons of the vote. Yes, please God sees, Yuri Anatolyovich, that you wanted to take the word. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u46	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Adam Ivanovich, indeed, knows better who needs him. So I want this bill. We are amending the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine without a committee decision, without an expert conclusion, without anything. I'm telling you right now, there's a violation of the Constitution once. And second of all, he doesn't give anything. Dear people! Do you think, the authors, that you passed this law, that it gives something?Oh, my God! You write: A person is not allowed to perform his duties before the day of suspension. And they're already admitted in February-month. And the law has no reverse power. That means you wrote a complete joke. But you don't want to hear it because we've usurped the rostrum and everything. That's why. People, listen to how smart it is to do it and do it in accordance with the law. The decision of the Rules Committee is made by an expert board. And put it down, and let them enlighten you, if you do not listen to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u47	Please, Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u48	I'd like to give Yuri Solomatin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u49	Yuri Solomatin's microphone. Don't say "amen."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u50	Thank you very much, colleague. Dear friends, allow me to address everyone in this way. We witnessed you breaking the Supreme Council of Ukraine last December as we broke the Supreme Council of Ukraine earlier when we passed the Labour Code, the Earth Code. After all the conclusions and conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Hall, we are with you, national deputies, higher than any expert office, legal and other. As you and I will decide, so will we. That's why it's like this for a minute. We have with you a conscious and understanding responsibility to the people to make a decision. I call on everyone, all the factions, every MP to make such a responsible decision and support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u51	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I propose to support Alexander Moroz's privatisation bill. What's the matter? We know a number of States where the most strategic enterprises are privately owned and carry out defence orders to ensure the security of the party. This only indicates that the Government of the State is capable of managing these enterprises and that they are not fed, but are given and operated in the interests of the State. As long as we don't learn to do that, we'll assume that the enterprises are being fed to someone. The faction, “Regions of Ukraine”, requests support for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u53	Yes. Dear colleagues, they exchanged -- the author insists on giving an answer. Please, Shuma microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u54	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to answer a colleague's line that said that this bill has some kind of misunderstanding. Dear friends, I am addressing the National Deputies of Our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine, who called on the Constitution to be followed: "Let your colleagues write a statement of authority and there will be no need to enact these laws in general." I have repeatedly addressed the President of Ukraine, the honorary head of the People's Union Party, our Ukraine: "Make them exercise authority." And if they have not advised them to do so, release them from their position. Well, I understand it's hard to get the best man out of office. Well, the other deputies need to be released. So we offer mechanisms to either settle this issue. You can get rid of them on one condition, how you will show political will and tire them of writing statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u55	Yes. The discussion is over, and I put to the vote on adopted as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on ensuring compliance with the requirements regarding the incompatibility of the status of the national MP with other activities, registration number 7700. [[16:44:02]] For 258. The factions. There's a denial, I don't generally put it. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 1, Socialists - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, SDPU - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Afterfractional" - 15. Yeah, and we have another deal left, to implement. Please turn on the freezer microphone. And Alexander Aleksandrovitch, you will recall your proposal for what we now have to vote for. Ice cream microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u56	I'm reminding you again of the offer. Alexander Frost, faction of socialists. To include the draft laws 5043 in the agenda and their revision 6310 in your list. And project 7272, 7272-1 and 7272-2: on the inclusion in the list of enterprises that are not subject to the privatisation of Crevyzstal, Odessa Portal, Turboat, Artem, Crivbaslav supply and Luganskteploz. The authors are these projects. The committee was determined on this point. There is no doubt that these are basic enterprises for the economy of Ukraine, enterprises of strategic importance that should be state property. So I'm asking you to put these projects into order and vote essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, the point is that they are included in the agenda. This may be about speeding them up. Please, from the committee of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. The microphone of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, not Valentina, but Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u58	Some of these issues are included in the agenda, some are not included in the draft laws. In order to clarify all of this, I would like to open page 13 of today's agenda to include a decision-making agenda. Indeed, on page 15 of draft law 7272, 72-1, 72-2, they should be added to the agenda and for discussion and decision. The rest of the draft law, as mentioned by Alexander Alexandrovich, is already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u59	So that's the way it is with respectable colleagues. I'm making a proposal. The proposal is that part of the draft legislation that deals with privatization problems that are now included, plus those that are not included, should be included in the agenda and should be considered now, interrupting consideration of issues related to WTO. Is that what I'm saying? Yeah. So I'm betting on the vote. Who's in charge of bringing it into the agenda right after we put it next to the issues that are included in the agenda, the laws that are related to the problems of privatization? I'd like to make a statement. [[16:48:02]] For 203 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 55, Ukraine - 48, People's Party - 9, Timoshenko Block - 1, Socialist - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, Social Democrats - 18, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 1, Industrial and Business Party - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, we have fulfilled all the arrangements, i.e. voted all we could, so let's work quickly and get to the issues we just spoke about. It's under review. We need to put in order of the day and consider, under a reduced procedure, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs to Live Animals and Leather Raw Materials, registration number 7567, on inclusion in the agenda. [[new editor]] [[16:49:27]] For-179 The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 72, the communists are 0, the Ukraine is 0, the People's Party is 17, the Yulia Block is 32, the SPU is 0, the Ukrainian People's Party is 19, the SDPU is 0, the Democratic Ukraine is 0, the only Ukraine is 16, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 6, the Democratic Initiative is 9, the non-fractional is 8. I'm asking you to sign up for a vote. Please, five minutes Bespali, Matthew Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u60	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". I have, in fact, a proposal in this case from the procedure. Adam Ivanovich, this morning, probably because a lot of the bills that the chairman has been given such a crazy pace, including in the second reading, I understand the motives for speeding up, but I still have a little suggestion that I should take a break between the questions, because, for example, we're discussing some issues there, that's why there's some logic, the more so that many projects are being submitted directly today from the voting wheels. They were not distributed, not in the order of the day, but in a separate conversation. If there is such a lobbyism, what will you do about it? Although there is a request not to give a voice at the first wave of the finger, so - called opposition today, it is only spoken. So I do propose that in a calm environment, I return and explain what this is about and return to voting because this was the atmosphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u61	Please, Vladimir Matthew. After him, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u62	I don't think it's a nervous situation at all, it's totally normal, it's working, and it doesn't have to go back to anything. And please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u63	Solomon’s Microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction has repeatedly stressed its view of a set of bills, which is now in the order of the day, and which is the basis for the promotion of Ukraine to the world trade organization in such a way that it opens borders, borders to bring the mess to Ukraine from a low-quality country and creates conditions that are bad for a domestic producer when it can't export anything and can't produce anything, directly in its own country. We cannot support, we urge: do not vote, do not put the agenda into order, or vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u65	Yes, honourable colleagues, distinguished national MPs and guests, there is a delegation from the Philippine Congress in Ukraine with an official visit, beginning with the speaker of the House of Representatives of the Philippine Congress, Mr. José Devenisia. A highly respected delegation is now in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us welcome the high guests and wish them the unforgettable impressions of being on Ukrainian soil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u66	Yes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u67	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today there is an economic crisis in the world, each country is trying to protect its own producer, each country is now looking for ways to get out of this situation. And those EEC countries that we're so keen on today show us what's going on? One thing I can say is that the EEC budget that has not been adopted so far is the protection stages of the self-producer. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have adopted, we have voted, the bill is not adopted. Today, we have 7638 -- a bill that really prevents the loss of the State budget. We are responsible to the pensioners, we are accountable to the budgeters, we are accountable to the entire Ukrainian people. Let us therefore not dwell on issues that really hinder our industry, but on ways to complete our own budget and how to implement those programmes that have been adopted today in order to secure those social plans that are very high. They need to be held up, they need to be carried out, both pensions and salaries. Let us look for ways to fill the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u68	Shevchenko Alexander, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u69	Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dnipropetrovština, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear colleagues, when it comes to protecting their own manufacturer, it is not just a normal protection of the internal market. I think the main thing is to stimulate production. And when we can't, for example, give significant subsidies in agriculture, we can't have much impact on production, we can't go from third-generation technology to fifth-generation technology. So I think it's finally time to get out of those restrictions that are imposed on us by tariff restrictions on exports of products. If we are on the verge of thinking, we may feel that an additional tariff may help us to develop better. In the fat industry. Look what happened to our cattle. It's gone, despite the fact that there's a limit. That's why I'm behind the laws that encourage and export, manufacturing and supporting the manufacturer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u70	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to point out that today we have such a certain definition of joining the World Trade Organization. And we have to really work out a few laws that define our place in this organization. But I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that as we go to the WTO, we have to figure out what part of our property can be privatized and what part can't be, because it's state regulated. And once again, I want to draw attention to the fact that we did not vote in favour of discussing, first of all, the issue of banning privatization for certain objects. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz has already mentioned this. So I think that's the logic. Let's go back to that question, let's look at them. And then there will be a road open to consider the bills on the WTO. Then we'll understand how to be with the hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u72	Thank you. Before the vote of Economics Minister Sergei Teryohin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the very order of the debate on the question of whether or not a bill should be included in the agenda is quite strange. We kind of refuse to have a general discussion and figure out why the government had an argument about a bill or something. I can only tell you one thing after this bill. In the year 96, this rate of export was introduced. During this year, only seven and a half million to seven and seven tenths of millions of cattle were slaughtered by cattle alone. That's 2.3 times. According to the skin, there's another situation where 98% of the total is exported through Moldova. It's going around the world. That's why I have an emergency request. Not to do so is simply a monologue on the part of those who speak out of motives. Listen to the government and make a decision, for at the end of history only the Supreme Council can determine whether it is a good law or a bad one. So let's start the discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, we've been talking about proposals for a return to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the 7567 bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Export Export Customs for Live Animals and Leather Commodity, a new edition. So I'm voting on a motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of bill 7567. Please vote. [[16:58:37]] For 216 The decision is not supported. The factions? Please, by factions: "Our Ukraine" -75, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 17, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, non-fractional - 11. [[May I have your attention, please?]] So let's move on to the next question. We need now, your honors, to include in the agenda and to make a decision on Bill 7568 - to amend the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar. [[on the internal quota system]] I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. Please vote. [[16:59:52]] For 229 Questions in the agenda are included. Let us go to his consideration. A report from the Ministry of Economics will be made by the Minister of Economics, Sergei Terjehochin. Oleg Yukhnowsky will be speaking from the committee. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Production Regulation, Sugar Implementation foresees two fundamental points. From the text of the current Ukrainian Law on State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar, the situation relating to quotas "B" and "C" is deleted. This law introduces quotas for the production of sugar, namely. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't hear myself. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u76	May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! Allow me to bring the government’s proposal to your attention. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u77	According to the law, there are 3 quotas: a sugar quota on the internal market? - the maximum quantity to be delivered on the internal market from 1 September of the current year to 1 September of the next; the sugar quota under international contracts - the "B" quota - the quantity of sugar to be delivered outside Ukraine under international contracts and the "A" quota if necessary and the "C" quota is sugar produced above the "A and B" quotas and intended for implementation by owners only outside the country. The drafting of the bill was as follows: First of all, the under-applicability of the concept of quota "B" and quota "C" as such has never been introduced since the adoption of this law, since the production of sugar and sugar beet in Ukraine has been less than its internal consumption in recent years. Secondly, Ukraine's non-application of quota "B" and "C" with the repeated use of quota "A" is considered an export restriction. Thirdly, the existence of the Ukrainian Act on State regulations for the production and implementation of sugar, article 3, paragraph 11, which provides for mandatory exports, has been regulated by the recently adopted law, which was reported here by Deputy Catherine Vaschuk on the principles of the processing of cheese under the duty to export finished products abroad. Therefore, the government requests that these quotas do not work, but they may be regarded as a violation of competition rules and, given that the issue is settled by law, which was already adopted by the Supreme Council, the author of which is Catherine Vaschuk, to accept the proposal to abolish these two quotas "B" and "C". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u78	Yes. Thank you, too, Minister. Have a seat, please. Oleg Yuhnowski of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Secretary of the Committee. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u79	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar on the Distinguishing of Quotas B and C on Sugar, and notes the following. First, production quota systems do not conflict with WTO requirements and are common practice in all countries producing sugar from sugar beet, including in European Union countries, guaranteeing the sugar industry's supply of raw materials, beetroot, stable prices and profitable production. Secondly, taking into account sufficient quantities of the production of its own beet sugar, the removal of article 11, paragraph 11, of the three laws, which provides for compulsory removal from Ukraine of sugar produced from raw sugar, from the cane, is contrary to the interests of the national producer. In connection with the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council a draft of Law 7568 to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u80	The position of the committee to your knowledge has been proven. Dear colleagues, we have a draft decree on the inadmissibility of this bill. So now we need to figure out what this project is. To justify his word, Gregory Kaletnik is from a group of national MPs who are the authors of the draft decree on the inadmissibility of the draft law that we are considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u81	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! A bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on quota-reduction would violate a comprehensive, balanced system of sugar market regulation and would effectively exclude the State's participation and influence in export operations with sugar, the conclusion of international agreements on sugar trade, and would limit the prospect of increasing the export potential of the sugar complex. Ukraine has sufficient production capacity for its own beet sugar, and therefore the proposal to delete paragraph 3.11 on the mandatory export of sugar produced from cane sugar is detrimental to the domestic beet complex. This removal is a sign of betrayal of the interests of national manufacturers. That is probably why the project documents of Mineconomy do not provide any arguments for the proposals they have made. The explanatory note does not contain information on the expected consequences of the adoption of the proposed bill. Moreover, the reference to the GAT SAT requirement is, to put it mildly, false. In support of the foregoing, several examples of GAT SOT rules, such as articles 3 to 23, allow for the avoidance of general rules that contain a set of trade agreements if they cannot be maintained without violating domestic legislation. Articles 11, 19 allow restrictions on imports that cause or threaten to cause serious harm to domestic producers of the like product in this case. Sugar production. Thus, restrictions in the existing law on the regulation of the manufacture of sugar protect the domestic producer and do not conflict with the rules of GAT SOT. From the foregoing, it is concluded that the proposed changes to the existing law that Minister Teryochin has made are being introduced into the strategic sphere of the state, the workers of factories and workers of the drilling industry are being thrown into the street. It's practically not a bill, it's a funeral march to another important area of domestic production, one by one, cynically and successfully sheltered by new officials. With almost 800,000 tons of sugar available in Ukraine for the time being, and it is estimated to remain another 400,000 tons at the time of the launch of sugar factories in September of this year. In a state, the price of sugar is artificially raised with one goal: to lobby the business interests of a company that makes profits in importing sugar. This is also an example of corruption, an example of bribery. Therefore, the bill introducing amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State regulations on the production and implementation of sugar is anti-national and is proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, in order to determine how we should proceed, I will put to the vote a draft decision on non-admissibility, and then, if it is not supported, we will come to a draft bill. A logical question? Well, I'll put a draft ruling to the vote, then we'll talk. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar, registered 7568/P, is submitted to the vote. [[on the internal water system]] [[17:08:43]] For 128 The draft decision is not supported. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine - 2, the Communists - 55, the Ukraine - 5, the People's Party - 18, the Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, the SPI - 26, the Ukrainian People's Party - 1, the SDPU - 18, the Democratic Ukraine - 1, the only Ukraine - 1, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, the Democratic Initiative - 0, the non-fractional - 1. Let's move on to the discussion. We signed up for six national deputies, we need four to speak. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u83	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would now ask the government, I understand Sergey Anatoliyovich when he says that these options of quota "B" and "C" haven't been applied, and he's responsibly claiming this as a minister, but there's fear in society today, Sergey Anatolyovich. [[I mean teryohina.]] In society, there is a fear of exactly what the committee has just reported. There is a fear in society that such changes will lead to a change in the sugar market structure in Ukraine, which will go completely down to cane sugar. I don't know what the medics think about that. Would that affect the genetic code of the Ukrainians? We're not papayas, and we still have to eat a whole other sugar, sugar that grows on our Ukrainian land. From this I see that there are no serious calculations yet for what we'll expect. And secondly, in the negotiations, I don't understand, well, we're all human beings, and people who are already members of the World Trade Organization can't talk to them together and say, "People, but we already have a piece of internal legislation and according to your absolute articles that are already in the GAT SOT, accepted, working, part 2. It states that they may not comply with these requirements in trade agreements, without violating domestic legislation that has already taken effect before they have concluded and concluded any agreements. So I think in this case we need to support the Committee's opinion and support the government. How can we support the government? The government said that the honorable, that was before, we can't change. Moreover, the Law, reported by Vaschuk, speaks of this. But clearly standing in the position of sugar syrup from the cane and leaving it all the way here, we can't go there. This is a huge risk to the entire Ukrainian economy. That's the first question. And the second question. I'd like to have the distinguished national MPs here when the names of the accomplices are hanging, and we have an extraordinary event: our fellow MP died, and his card was voted 11 times. Well, how is that, how can we talk about what's moral? Neither morally nor morally. Nor amassing - not morally, not morally - voting for the person who has already died - is the kingdom of the heavens. So let us, when we come to each other in these accusations, see that both of them allow for certain violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u84	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u85	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština One of the problems of gaining Ukraine’s membership in the WTO, according to the lawmakers of the bill, is the legislative regulation of the sugar market in Ukraine. And that's probably strange. Do you, Mr. Minister, consider this to be the only problem that has not been solved? Is it possible to go to WTO with the condition of agriculture? Don't you know the state of the business of producing and implementing sugar? Do you not know that more than half of sugar factories exist only on paper, and around destroyed sugar companies are plagued by countless Ukrainian people? And in what state did the social sphere -- schools, hospitals, kindergartens -- get sugar factories? And you today, Mr. Legislators, are proposing the introduction of minimum tariff rates on imports of sugar and sugar if imported at such a level as to balance profits from both the processing of imported sugar and the production in Ukraine. The world sugar market situation creates economic advantages for sugar, imported sugar in front of sugar beets. It was as if such a situation should not have touched Ukraine. But we are told that the production of sugar, sugar beets in Ukraine, does not provide an internal market. This is Ukraine, which has been famous for producing sugar from its raw materials for a long time. And that's why the price of it was 78 copies per kilogram. Today, the sugar - reforming sugar of the heart is already worth about five dollars. Of course, it is easier not to do anything but to bring in other people’s sugar. For we Ukrainians are no longer able to do anything, but we are waiting for the manna of the heavens for a plate. And today's year for the development of the beet-sugar industry is already lost. Because the areas under sugar beet crops have been reduced by more than three times compared to the 1990s. And at the same time, half a million people lost their jobs. So the new government bill will not create a level playing field for all and will not help to improve the situation in the weeds sector. And you, Mr. Terjohin, don't rush into S.O.T., stop yourself and stop your colleagues from the government and in the Supreme Council Hall. We Communists have no moral right to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u86	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Vitaly Šibko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u87	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear colleagues, I would like to have everyone present in this room and those who listen to us. They clearly understood what was going on. The draft law, which was put forward for discussion, provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar in order to bring its provisions fully into line with the requirements of the World Trade Organization, thereby accelerating Ukraine's entry into WTO. The project is envisaged, in particular, to have lost its validity, the provisions of part 11 of the third article of the Ukrainian Act on State production regulation and implementation of sugar, according to which the production of sugar in Ukraine from imported raw materials is only allowed under the conditions of further exportation of finished products in full outside Ukraine. I believe that this will lead to further destruction and the so - called sugar industry of Ukraine. By 1990, there were 192 sugar factories in Ukraine that produced 5.5 million to 5.6 million. A ton of sugar. Every year, this sector has provided up to four billion Soviet carbovans, I emphasize the income of Ukraine. After producing sugar, it was not only in the Union but in Europe. 19 areas were sown about 1.8 million. acres of sugar beet. Six research institutes were working, 16 engineering plants were producing technology for the industry, 15 vocational schools were preparing footage. In all, about eight million people were employed. Without a doubt, Ukraine’s sugar industry was a backbone for the food industry. What about today? In 2004, there were 110 factories -- almost half of them. The rest will never rise again, either cut, or soon be cut into scrap metal. As a result, the area under the barrel was reduced to 700,000. hectares, i.e. more than three. Car factories for the sugar industry are not working. The institutes and vocational schools are closed. Ukraine, where sugar beet seeds were first produced in the world, cannot provide quality seeds and have to buy them abroad. During the years of independence, no new sugar plant has been built. And it's not surprising, because not building a new factory today requires about $150 million. Where are they to be taken in a ruined and looted Ukraine? The new government, just like the old one, continues the same policy regarding the sugar industry. Here, too, today, the government imposes a law on Parliament that, when adopted, will make matters worse in this field. The Communist faction cannot or will not vote in favour of this project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u88	Yes, Vitaly Shibko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear friends, I once had to be in Brazil and, indeed, you are traveling 300 miles [300 km] on one side of the sugarcane, driving 300 miles [300 km] on the other side of the sugarcane. And, really, when you see this, this sugarcane is not plowed, not sown, not hunted. Just take the machete. It's also really hard work. But take the machete and cut it in order to send it to the sugar plant. So, really, that's the idea that you have -- and you can refuse to grow sugar in Ukraine because it's a hard-working job. And we have to sow and plow. And, you know, it's not always a plane like this in Brazil, it's a different time to do it in the rain and dirt. But if you think about it, then another thought comes up -- what do you do with your production? What about those who work? How about some farms are adapted to produce sugar. And what's more, one day Alexander Moroz and I had to meet with the minister of agriculture of the Russian Federation, and he said that today, really, Russia needs a lot of sugar, but this sugar doesn't want to be bought in Brazil, and it wants to buy Ukrainian sugar. And so far, all the possibilities of trade with Russia in sugar have been broken, and there may be some problems today regarding the cultivation of its own sugar. So, I think we need to agree with the idea of those who need to think about the WTO, we really need to adjust to that today, but not make any money. manufacturer, no. about its production in order not to ruin its economy, for if our economy is not present, there is no need to exist in the World Trade Organization at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u90	Yes, dear colleagues, we have four men, two in favour, two in opposition. But there were two other national MPs. Let's give it a minute. Eugene Kirilchuk. Well, one minute. Eugene Kirilchuk, then Vladimir Cherniak. Well, let's stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I feel that those who have spoken before have failed to discern the depths of this law. It is this law that provides for the order of that poor thing, the disorder that has been in Ukraine so far. It clearly states that sugar is cane that is imported, 100 percent must be exported and 100 percent should be paid to our businesses for processing. The other one. For sugar-cheese who want to import and process in Ukraine, we have to pay 300 euros now. Tell me, who else is going to bring him in besides smuggling? Because of this, this law is designed to organize, to set up order in the sugar industry. The only thing is that very little time has been allocated to the minister of the economy and he was able to convince the room as it should. I think he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u92	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak. Please, the microphone. Oh, you want out of the rostrum? Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u93	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear people's deputies, instead of developing our own beet-sugar complex, we've broken a lot of cane. But this has already happened, I remember even when the cane’s quotas were raised in a voice, a very powerful cane lobby is operating in Parliament. But this is the situation, and it should be a solution. It would be better if she wasn't, I understand the Communists. But we're already in the middle of a situation, and we need to find a way out of it. What's being specifically proposed right now. It's suggested to cancel quotas B and C, or the donor scheme. It's dangerous. But we have already passed the law of Vasuk, which says that if it comes from the donor raw material, let's take back sugar or pay the tax. Customs don't pay, and there's a problem. These quotas are essentially dead standards, they don't work, but they're potentially corrupt. And that makes sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, now. Dear colleagues, with a motive, please sign in for three minutes. While you're writing down, I'm going to ask the Minister of Economics for a closing word. Then from the committee the closing word and three minutes of motive will be. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u95	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is going to develop, I repeat, the law that you passed in this room a week ago, which was presented by the Vaszuk People's Deputy, which says that, if there's a sugar-sort of cane or beet processing on donor terms, it has a hundred percent to be exported abroad to Ukraine or imported to Ukraine, but with a payment of 300 euros per tonne. This law removes corrupt quotas potentially B and C, which have never been used in Ukraine’s history, but provide grounds for entry into Ukraine’s market without payment of duty. So I don't understand the debate and rhetoric that the reporters here have been talking about. If you have any doubts, I would ask the national deputies to adopt this law in the first reading and spend a week trying to find out all the issues that concern them. But not to reject this normal, perfectly clear bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u96	Yes, dear colleagues, now from the Committee of Oleg Yukhnowsky, please microphone. Dear colleagues, please be quiet. Oleg Yukhnowsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u97	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, let's say, with respect to quotas B and C, the motivation or motivation of Sergey Anatolievich is not entirely convincing, because it's really a project. Whether the law has been adopted for the conditions of sugar reprocessing. In fact, when we have limited sugar production on the internal market, these quotas don't work. But this does not limit exports in any way, Sergey Anatolyevich. Moreover, the quota allows manufacturers to export sugar entirely under free conditions. The language here is actually in this project about article 3, paragraph 11, which actually said that the internal market should be filled with sugar of its own production by national producers. And to some extent, he was strengthening the law on dowry. about dealing with donor raw materials. Yes. But if we look at another draft of the law that you're about to introduce to Sotovian. 260 plus 460,000 tons of sugar-cheese at 2 percent of the customs value, Sergey Anatoliyovich, then you have to speak openly and candidly. And experts are talking about it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u98	Yes, Mikola Odinenik, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine" has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u99	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", Winnitzina. Dear friends! As far as quotas are concerned, there is logic, and indeed quotas in Ukraine do not work today. But if this law is to look on the other side, I don't see here a ban on sugar-sparing, which is what this is about. This time. It's different. If we're talking about processing sugar raw materials, sugar-cheese, then if there is a law today that forbids the sale of sugar-cheese in Ukraine, and only the one that has gone into processing, like the donor raw material, it has to be exported to another state, to that country from which the donor raw material came. But let's think about what's brewed here today. It's kind of deep.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u100	Victor Petrov, Communist faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u101	Victor Petrov, the Communist faction. The adoption of this law will be the final destruction of the sugar industry in Ukraine. The crime that is being committed today, the so-called new authority, is the continuation of the destruction of the sugar industry. Seven sugar mills were cut in the Vinnitz region during these years, in 14 years. And today seven sugar mills are ready to be cut. Therefore, this law cannot be adopted in any way. And why isn't the Minister of Agrarian Policy here today? His position should be asked. The opinion of the agrarian committee should be supported and there should be no vote in favour of this law. This is the demand of all the sugars in the Vinni district, we will have 600,000 additional unemployed in Ukraine if we adopt this law. Now, Mikola Evtihievich has sent me a telegram, where the vinic Saharans, who are still in business, demand that this law not be passed in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u102	Vladimir Bronnikov, Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u103	Vladimir Bronnikov, Zaporozhye Region, Regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We are enacting a vital law without having to discuss it in depth. We didn't go through it, and that's the whole agricultural industry, not a round table. The Minister of the Economy beats himself in the chest and says, "Honest word, good law." Others say, "Honest word, bad law." Therefore, the “Regions” faction, in principle, considers this Act not harmful to production, to agricultural production in Ukraine, but will only vote for it on first reading. And between the first and second readings of the Committees, the Supreme Council must discuss it in a round table, we must see all the consequences quantitatively, not only by swearing to each other in honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u104	Yes. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on the introduction into the Ukrainian Act of State Production Regulation, the implementation of sugar, the system of internal quotas, registration number 7568. Please vote. [[17:31:22]] For-198 The decision is not taken. By faction, please, "Our Ukraine" -- 73, Communists -- 2, "Regions of Ukraine" -- 12, People's Party -- 4, Block of Timoshenko -- 38, SPI -- 0, Ukrainian People's Party -- 22, SDP (o) -- 0, "Democratic Ukraine" -- 0, "One Ukraine" -- 16, "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" -- 0, Democratic Initiatives -- 10, non-fractional -- 12. The committee's proposal? Please, the government's offer? No, one minute, well, we're, you're not the government, well, please. This may be the proposal of the Committee, or the government, which is the initiator of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u105	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u107	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, if he doesn't have an understanding of what's going on, let's re-read it and figure it out. It's simple, and in such a theistic way, when people go out on the rostrum and say it's useful without arguments, or they say it's not useful without arguments. Clearly, the MP Corps cannot be determined. So let's do the first reading again, but I would ask that all the opponents of this Law, and they join the discussion, not just in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u108	Oleg Yuhnowski, please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The committee itself made its position clear. The Supreme Council also confirmed it. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm still proposing to Sergey Anatolyovich that the government be determined by the next Soviet project for importing sugar-sparing, which you will be considering in the government in the near future, and then consider them in the complex of these two draft laws, then it will be clear to everyone, absolutely clear and clear. This painting is why it's done, who's going to benefit from it, and so on. Then there will be no such questions as today. And then we'll be absolutely argumentative to deal with these two issues together. Thank you. And now I propose not to go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, no matter what, please note, no matter what the committee proposes to reject the bill, and logically it should be rejected when we have not accepted it, but in order to preserve the opportunity for our further consultations, I will, with your permission, put to the vote the proposal to refer this project to a re-read. [[17:34:02]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 38, National Party - 8, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, Postfraction - 12. Dear colleagues, we must now decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. [[on the admission of Ukraine to WTO]] Registration number 7566. I'm betting on the vote to put the matter in order of the day. [[17:35:08]] For 255 Questions are included in the agenda. Let us go to his consideration. 255. I've got something. Dear colleagues, the reporter for this matter is Minister Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. The focal point will be the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investments, Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is suggested by a very simple law and perhaps we would demonstrate a willingness to move forward on the example of this law. It contains two standards: amendments to the Audit Act. The first rule -- article five -- allows any individual to be an auditor, regardless of his nationality, if he receives an auditor's certificate according to the standards and rules in force in Ukraine. And the second change is to article 24. This second change prohibits founders, owners, participants, shareholders of audit firms, and members of the board of audit firms from interfering with the audit process. So this rule is aimed at ensuring the independence of audit. These are two basic changes to this law. The government’s request to uphold the simple law and vote it out as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u112	Thank you. From the Committee, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, and we're voting, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u113	Dear National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at the meeting of the seventh June fifth year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to bring its individual provisions into line with the requirements for Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organisation and the implementation of the "Ukraine-EU" action plan. In particular, two changes are proposed. First, it is proposed that changes be made to all those who wish, regardless of their nationality, the conditions for obtaining a Ukrainian auditor certificate. And the second is that the amendments to articles 14 and 24 of this Law lay down additional requirements for the independence of the audience when they perform their audit. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the inclusion in the agenda of the seventh session of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing and Adopting It. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we continue our work for 15 minutes, that is, 18 hours 15 minutes. Is there a need to discuss this bill? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Volodymyr Eshchenka. I'd like your honors to save an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, there is another novelty in this law. We have a decision to make, whether we let it happen or not, but we have to weigh it. In particular, it is proposed in the Audit Act that part of the first article of article five should read: "The auditor may be a natural person who has a certificate.'--and so on. This means that the right to conduct an audit activity in Ukraine will be exercised by individuals regardless of whether they are citizens of Ukraine or not. In practice, various international firms were involved in the audit work. And nothing, in principle, has happened in Ukraine. We just need to make it clear that if we sign a treaty within the framework of the World Trade Organization, we need to make it clear that the General Agreement on Trade in Services provides for the granting of national status to our people as well. That is, our experts can also work as an audience in these countries. And I don't see anything wrong with that either. But here's the thing. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance. Victor Mikhailovich, making changes to this law, has to make changes to article 364 of the Master Code, because it clearly provides that only Ukrainian citizens can be an auditor. If we don't make amends, it's, excuse me, the law that you're now enacting. Just don't do anything. I think it's perfectly understandable to be and, Victor Mikhailovich, it's me that I'm always stressing that in government, I'm asking that there be a comprehensive approach. They went into one norm -- see if there's any other norm that brings about changes to other legislation. I don't think it's the worst law we've considered today, and it's no harm to adopt it, if we're going to be writing with you in other laws that primarily have the right to employment of Ukrainians, as recorded by Americans, as recorded by all citizens who respect their nation. So let us adopt, and then in other laws, let us settle the queue as, what, who has children, who has families. It's all going to be socially fair and in terms of audiences, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u116	Yes. Thank you, too. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Please. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u117	Fucking Communist faction. From the speech of the Minister of Finance and the Committee of Profiles, we see that efforts are again being made to implement the bill, its individual provisions. to the requirements for Ukraine's entry into the World Trade Organization and implementation of the Ukrainian-EU plan of action, although we do know what the inhabitants of France and the Netherlands have concluded without voting in favour of the EU Constitution. But we're still moving to this organization, and we're using different motives, including changes to the Ukrainian Auditorship Act. Here Karmazin has already had a conversation about, according to an auditor, a natural person who has a certificate that determines the ability to engage in auditory activity in Ukraine. So the project does not set requirements for the citizenship of an audience. At the same time, article 364 of the master code of Ukraine states that the auditor may be only a Ukrainian citizen who has an accreditation certificate of rights to engage in auditory activities in Ukraine. In this regard, it is essential to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Code of Masters and then to consider the bill. I would also like to point out that this law proposes to recognize that an audit is prohibited, which requirements regarding its independence are not met by other circumstances. I think that these issues need to be considered in view of the fact that managers of different levels today are considering this law on auditory activity on their part. I don't understand why in Chercas today, after June 1, 2005, when the citizens of Cherkasa protested against rising housing and utilities tariffs and on June 21st, we resumed this action, the local authorities were unable to justify what the recognized increase in utility prices, housing. We should probably invite specialists from abroad and wait for the adoption of this law. I think we need to ask the question with our ribs and we, the Communist faction, will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u118	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u119	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We do not live in a vacuum, and we will no longer live behind the Berlin Wall. The practice of foreign representatives in our various processes is quite common. Foreign lawyers took part in the Janukovitch process. We're going to European courts, we're learning and receiving education and corresponding diplomas from foreign students, we think that's normal. Why do some people find it abnormal to have foreign audiences in the corresponding valuation of property that we have if they act under Ukrainian legislation? Finally, even to judge the final match of the football Cup of Ukraine, we invited a foreign arbitrator. Perhaps these audiences will be more objective in assessing property than some of our native Ukrainians do. So you don't have to mix the question of the referendum in France, and you have to talk about the topic "in the city, the mouth, and in Kiev, the uncle," but you have to talk specifically about the topic that we're talking about. And we need to support the government's proposals for audiences. Another point is that a single line, as an addition to the bill, needs to be amended accordingly. As for the second question. We're faced with a lot of situations where they value themselves, and machines with digital software at Carpatnaftomas factory in Kaluchi are sold at the price of scrap metal. To a certain extent, this law puts antagonism on these abuses. But there is obviously a need for further development of legislation in order to eliminate such abuses. I propose to vote in favour of the government’s proposals in the first reading and to make appropriate additions so that the law goes into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u120	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u121	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have more questions for Victor Mikhailovich. Victor Mikhailovich, I really agree with you that the idea of the bill is the main one to improve the quality of the audience service, because, in fact, if foreigners are going to do the audience service, of course it's going to be very difficult to bribe them. But I have this question for you, maybe you'll say it in your closing statement. You could predict how many native audiences will come out of this activity and how many will remain? And it's not going to happen to us that there's just going to be foreign audiences working, and the natives just won't be able to work in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u122	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. For reasons here we have signed up Javorowski, the Hare and the Shurma have not spoken. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, for reasons. Is there a Volodymyr Aleksandrovich? Yes. Microphone, please turn it on. Then the Hare and the Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! It seems to me that this bill that we are considering today is one of the most transparent and understandable documents we have ever considered. It's completely clear and transparent. The only thing that's causing some kind of detonation is that we have permission to have foreign audiences. I don't think that's a problem. Between the first and the second readings we can make this and we can have, well, a normal Law. Although, frankly, I doubt that from what we wrote down. That the founders and owners and officials are not allowed to intervene, I don't think that's how it's going to be done. If the owner tells anyone, he'll do it. But if we do have foreign audiences, I'm sure there'll be more order here. I'm just suggesting that we all vote in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u124	Ivan Hare, please, microphone. Then there's Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u125	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill needs to be adopted because we only allow foreign experts to be involved. And I don't see any trouble in that. I don't think today our structures, and especially the Mafia, are going to involve high moral audiences, high-level people. So our people will do the same. But today we should consider the development of this Law. And if we're going to take a qualification for an audience activity, we have to write that this specialist in Europe, or where he should know Ukrainian. Because if he doesn't know the Ukrainian language, he's going to be driving behind him who, the chickens there and so on, and so on. I don't know, what is this audition? And we need to bring this bill out of, in line with another bill that says it can only be citizens of Ukraine. Therefore, if we are to go further in the drafting of this bill, we need to adopt it, and a qualified requirement for appropriateness must be introduced. If we are
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u126	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u127	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Unlike what was said before, with regard to the Act on Auditing and Voting, I do not understand at all. Because there's nothing transparent here. How are you going to vote, representatives of the "Ukrainian" bloc? We, the Social Democrats, have warned you that you are throwing the 84th Article of the Constitution, Part 3. [[United]] You're voting on someone else's cards. The Sugar Settlement Act voted: Prashenko, Baloga, Greens, Žebrovsky, Jętjak, Ivanov, Yvchenko, Katerinczuk, Polishchuk, Rybikin, Stacks, Tkak, Topoloov - where are they now? False voting. And Catherinechuk himself, I'm actually seeing that he's in the tax administration going to check if he's faking the adoption of laws. Until you stop breaking the Constitution, be a disgrace to the President and a disgrace to the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, discussions. I'm asking you, let's vote, but there's no time. The bill is closed. There is a motion for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing, registration number 7566. [[on the admission of Ukraine to WTO]] Please vote. [[17:53:09]] For 287 Decision taken. The factions. One moment, dear fellows. "Our Ukraine" - 81, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 31, People's Party - 35, Block Timoshenko - 34, SPU - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 3, Democratic Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 7, Postfraction - 17. Dear colleagues, it's been a long time here that two factions have been insisting on turning to "the only Ukraine," and that's how I realized that they were industrialists and entrepreneurs, right? About calling it a break. Dear colleagues, Vadim Gurov approached me, he's a bit of a reminder, I've already turned him down. They want to make a statement, and then we'll work on it. Please. There are two documents. We've still got 20 minutes to get to 18 hours 15 minutes. Please mobilize. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u129	Respectable colleagues. Please listen carefully, because the question that I'm trying to report right now is what we've been through all day. What are the stoves, the martens, you know that. And now I want to transfer you from the inanimate objects to the economics figures. So, I want to tell you the following: compared to March of the month, if you take the data, in the second quarter of the dollar, the country lost 363 million bracelets, because of the tariffs of 50 per cent to 343 million, because of the price of dirty gas to 30 million, and the electricity tariffs to 40 million. And some of them lost 775 million in their profits. In addition to the decline in export prices, there were only 1 billion 711 million bracelets. This is the price of our work. The main thing is that the work of the metallurgical complex has been falling in geometric progress. Well, let the metalworks go, it's one thing, but they're being followed by coal miners and coal miners and there's nowhere to go right now. And coal, you know, it's not stored. Hence the coxochemical production. What does the Government do on this issue? Yes, Julia Vladimirovna gathered the commission, there was a meeting of Kabmin, two and a half hours. Well, we're doing the job. But that's not enough. Remember the 99th year when there was a metallurgical mining complex in this state, you and I made an economic experiment with our hands and buttons. There were a lot of judges, but we took the metalworks and the others out of the gap. And now the miners and the metalsmiths who listen to us also believe that Parliament should intervene in this work. There's no other way. That's why I'm here. Just shut up. You know what this is about. Therefore, the first thing our Industrial Policy Committee is proposing is that a two-point ruling should be adopted, which suggests that the Government here, Kabmin, should be accountable for the sixth number. [[It's Gurov, Kravchenko, Matvienkov, Mother]] And the second. The Committee has developed an emergency law on this issue. And I believe that tomorrow it should be put on the agenda and considered. The rapporteur will be Mr. Matvienkov's colleague. That's all I want from you, please support, especially the ruling now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, I need a ruling. I don't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u131	She's a month away, a decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, I am now. One minute, let's do it this way. Now that determination. Well, the law is tomorrow. If there's no objection, let's take a look. Is there no objection? Just a minute. But tomorrow we will have to consider the issue of integration into the agenda. I'll take a look. Well, one minute, please. Well, I'll tell Pinzenic. If there's no objection now, we'll take it. But there was talk about the need to clarify, and he talked about it. Dear colleagues! So, dear fellows, I ask you now, if this decision is not available, we need to restore it, and then, if there is no objection, we vote it. No objections? Well, it was handed out a month ago! Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm asking, my fellow Members, if there are no warnings to address this issue, to be included tomorrow in the chapter "Integrating into the agenda and making a decision." No warning? And then the Supreme Council will determine. A draft law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! The office, come on, everybody! The Cabinet of Ministers is asking, please listen to us now for two laws: 7563, 7565, which relate to the amendments to the Act on Export Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals, we have simply included the agenda and are not looking at today, and we are looking at the next plenary week, and this week. Well, please calm down. Well, I told you. And next plenary week, we're just going to be looking at these bills. What? Well, let's go back now, let's make a decision, if there's any insistence, we'll come back. Calm down! Dear colleagues! I'm going to rephrase the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to consider now the inclusion in the agenda of two bills: 7563, 7565, which relate to amendments to the Act on Export Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals. And the draft bill is to be considered in the next plenary week. Here's a proposition. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7563 on the amendment of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals. Just getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[18:01:01]] For-161 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" is 66, Communists and "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 12, Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 7, Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 12. There is now a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda, only the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Exports of Expert Customs to Waste and Black Metals. Please vote. Well, respectable colleagues, well, pay attention! Please vote. [[18:01:55]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Yes, please. For reasons of what? Sign up, three minutes of motivation, please sign up. ..names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have 15 more minutes to work. Please don't hide your cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u133	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I ask you to give my word to my countryman Kozachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u134	Alexy Kozachenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u135	Dear friends, I'd like to inform all the deputies. Yesterday there was a meeting of the agreeing group led by Prime Minister Yuri Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. On this council, where representatives of virtually all factions and groups of parliamentary parliaments participated, it was decided that the government was withdrawing these two bills, that the working group was recast, and that it was being replaced. That's why I didn't understand the Minister of Economy's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u136	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Mikhail Rodionov? Please, Mikhail Rodionov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u137	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies and radio listeners! You know, everyone's surprised at what we're doing and looking at today. Once and for all, there are bills that we are implementing, so to speak, the decree of this small summit that ordered the Government, the President of Ukraine to enact the laws, that is, he gave us, as they say, no chance even to think. I mean, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's the people you come home to today at the simplest, and they say, "What are you doing there? Is that what this work is about to make some vague laws by means of a spear?" And I would also like to say, Vladimir Mihajlovich, that here is your signature under that document that you made a commitment to enact these laws, it is certainly surprising.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u138	I want to say to the honourable Michael Kuzmich, whom I very much respect, that I am surprised by your position, your claim that I have signed something. Show me my signature where I signed it. And please, I have enough critics without you without such a respectable and respectable person. Please, Matvienkov. You show the signature first, then you'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u139	.Dear colleagues! I want to say one thing. We have worked so hard for five years to balance the domestic market with the export of scrap. We found a really golden middle. In the end, we found this golden middle, we found a normal ratio. Those who voted today, I honestly cannot understand the logic of the people who include this bill for consideration. Do we want the cash to go? Do we want to set up the divide again? Spoiled monuments, open elevators, cut cables, that's what this law is all about, Sergey Anatolyevich. This is the consequence of this law. And now what is being done is being done with the knowledge of those who are trying to deploy this additional work. So what are we going to encourage this whole thing? Let's finally stop this divide that's in place in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Mikhail Kuzmich correctly said in the part that comes into the house and records what is being done here. Well, don't shout, show tolerance, please. Assadchev, please, we will continue to work now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u141	Thank you. Dear friends! I want to speak to my fellow deputies. You can see that the Ukrainian People's Party is voting on different bills. Where we need to protect our manufacturer, we protect him. But I think that Parliament behaves destructively when it does not vote for inclusion in the agenda. You put it into the agenda and tell me what you're saying, it's a normal thing, then don't vote for the bill. But when we don't vote, the government asks, and we don't vote for inclusion in the agenda, it's a completely destructive position that doesn't allow us to clarify the essence. The government wants to compromise, too, and we need to seek compromise. To do so, we need to consider a bill. So our position is let's put the bill into the agenda. Gur took the floor, we said: yes, let's include, there is a problem, we need to consider. But when we don't get into the agenda, it's our open destructive position. And I, for example, and our faction can't understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u142	We agreed on the proposals made by Vadim Gurov that tomorrow we would put into the agenda and make a decision. Dear colleagues! Let's keep working. May I have your attention, please? An amendment to article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act is proposed to vote. [[for insurance companies, non-residents]] Here are the wonders of Bills 7564 and 7564-1. Please vote. About the inclusion in the agenda. Listen to the logic of Assadchev, who spoke. [[18:07:56]] For 224 We didn't make it? I'm asking you to put up your cards, Your Honor. There is a motion for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. Registration number 7564, 7564-1. Please vote. [[18:08:41]] For 255 Oh, you see, in negative 255. Please, Sergey Teryohin. Sergey Teryohin, Minister of Economics, and then Homutinick Vitaly. While the minister goes, please, through the factions, we still have time, dear colleagues. Oh, I'm sorry. Well, I'm asking you, well, don't scream, well, hard to understand, we're back to inclusion now I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda of Bills 7564, 7564-1. Please vote. [[18:09:35]] For 252 Questions are included in the agenda. Please, Sergey Teryohin. Prepare Homutiniki Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable National Deputies, draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Insurance Act, developed with a view to implementing measures aimed at speeding up negotiations on Ukraine's entry into the WTO, particularly in the area of addressing the issue of the issue of access of branches of non-resident insurance companies to Ukraine's market. Following the opening of access to the insurance market of Ukraine, foreign insurance companies have been established by the Ukrainian Equal Insurance Act. [[on the organization of activities of insurers with Ukrainian share capital and foreign share capital]] The further provision of effective access relates to the liberalisation of the activities of branches of insurance companies. For individual countries members of the working group on development, Ukraine’s application to join the WTO remains sensitive to the issue of lifting the restrictions on opening such branches. Thus, by creating reliable regulatory oversight structures, it is necessary to ensure access to insurance services without restrictions and in the direct branches of foreign insurance companies. The government is proposing to establish a period of adaptation of our insurance market to the international market, to introduce such a rule — five years after Ukraine’s entry into WTO. There is an alternative bill prepared by the Committee on Finance and Banking, which sets additional conditions for branches of foreign companies. The government may also agree with this approach, but considering that such additions to the article are needed in view of the need to be excluded from the project, two of which are grossly contrary to GAT’s requirements. First, insurance activities under compulsory types of insurance on the basis of the relevant licence can only be carried out by a resident insurer in relation to the non-compliance with the article of the second GAT, which provides for the most favourable regime and restricts the access of non-resident insurers to the national insurance market. And the second question is the opening of branches by a non-resident insurance company in Ukraine as regards the necessity, as stated in the Financial Committee project, of the non-resident insurer's experience, which is going to open a branch for at least 15 years of activity in the area of insurance. They have the same approach. We don't have national insurance companies that are 15 years old or older because for obvious reasons. That's why in the final positions it's necessary to replace the term "acquisition of the law" with "five years after Ukraine's entry into the WTO." So to your decision we can also support the committee's proposal, it's pretty smart, it's going to develop the government's proposal, taking into account these comments that have now been proven.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u144	Yes, thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, I'll do my best. In principle, these two draft laws -- both governmental and committee -- are the same. So the government's only offering to set up five years after we enter the S.O.T. to open, let's say, a door for insurance companies' branches. The committee proposes to provide clear criteria and conditions for foreign insurance companies to open branches in Ukraine. What the Minister of Economics has said, we agree with these proposals, and we think that, in principle, this can be taken into account either in the first reading or in the second reading. So the committee took a decision, bill 7564 government-refused, 7564-1 committee-adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u146	Dear colleagues! Well, the offer is made to your knowledge, there's only a difference of 5-10 years and there's a deletion of one position. Let's make a decision right now and get this done. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am the first to put to the vote when the government is not taking the picture. Please, Terjehohin. microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We, the government, once again reaffirm our position that we agree with the version that was developed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, taking into account the comments that I have made from the rostrum. And the committee agrees. Therefore, a request on behalf of the government to accept a version of the committee in the first reading, the Committee on Finance and Banking, taking into account the government’s comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u148	Well, Carmazin and we'll vote. And one minute at a time. And Solomon's one minute. Please prepare for the vote. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u149	Yuri Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I've already repeatedly pointed out that when a foreign bank comes to Ukraine, maybe we have interest rates on people's loans for love, for housing, for everything, for two or three percent. This is going to be very positive. That's the first one. And I'm waiting for an answer from either Stella, or the Banking Committee, and I'm also asking Mr. Teryochin to do the same. And now on. Do you believe that 10 years from now, we will allow this to work? Well, the government has a more correct figure: five years from now, five years from now, for it to take effect. So let's just put together these two laws right now, take the government number five, and take the more written MP project. And this, in my opinion, will be a very good combination that can be accepted immediately and in general, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. There's nothing to stretch for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u150	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Well, we agreed to take that as a base. Please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u151	Dear friends, it's called don't wash, I'll say Russian, don't wash, don't skate. Or another definition is the passage of the bill: a silent breath. And if you speak the national language, it's organized by the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine to take over the insurance market in Ukraine. But in some ways. Our insurers in Europe, if we are assured that they will have the right to carry out insurance activities there, will act like adjectives and European insurers as hosts. So, of course, the leaders of the Third Reich are jealous of such actions, of the actions of our government and of our President. You can't pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u152	Please, Lebedowski's microphone. Microphone, please, first name, because I can't see. Ah, Tkalenko. Excuse me, please. I didn't get the glasses, I'm sorry. It's a tissue microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u153	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Deputies! I'll just give you an example of life. Yesterday, there was a session of the Herson District Council to discuss the proposal of a famous German credit insurance company Hermes to invest in the 200 million euro area. This is an astronomical figure for our area. There were debates, but the decision was taken, and such a protocol was signed. But we have faced the fact that our legislation is extremely imperfect. This also applies to the access of foreign auditors, and this applies to access to non-resident insurance companies. Therefore, it is a request to uphold this law. We're talking about investment now, we have to provide an absolutely favourable legislative base. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m1.u154	Dear colleagues! The government is withdrawing its bill, supporting a bill that has been drafted on the Committee, taking into account the proposals that have been made that are agreed with the Committee. So I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 7564-1, amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. Please vote. [[18:19:24]] For 307 The law was adopted, on a basis, as a basis. Dear colleagues, well, we've agreed that we'll work on it and we'll start by accepting it as a whole, we don't have any problems anymore. So, what's your hurry? What's more, there's a denial. Dear colleagues, shall we continue to work? The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue the plenary session from 10 a.m. to Friday. Please.
