ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:59]] There were 404 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarkok Alexander Markovich from the "One Ukraine" faction. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on May 19, 2005. Nine issues of day - to - day regulations and 18 bills of regulations were considered. One law was passed, one bill was adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was designed to be drafted, two bills were rejected, 16 regulations were approved and two draft regulations were rejected. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make applications, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Constantine Sitnik to the President of Ukraine for the lack of adequate public environmental policy for ongoing development and urgent action to prevent an environmental disaster in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:56]] For-86 Request not supported. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the President of Ukraine on the circumstances of the appointment and possible involvement of the acting head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Lviv Railway Rybosapek in the attempt on the life of the national deputy and the murder of the director of the South Trade Centre in the city of Lviv. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:40]] For 244 Request supported. I'm betting on voting for the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:01]] For 249 Decision taken. Jury SOLOMATANA to the President of Ukraine regarding the non - governmental position of some officials of the old and new Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in connection with their two - year sabotage of the letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:40]] For-153 Request supported. I would like to vote in favour of the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:01]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 38, People's Party - 3, SPI - 18, Block Timoshenko - 4, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 8, "One Ukraine" - 18, "Democratic Ukraine" - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Union" - 11, "The Postfraction - 5. Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens involved in the All-Ukrainian protest action “No increase in prices” for immediate consideration of the collective appeal addressed to the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:00]] For-157. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:22]] For-160. The request is neither supported nor sent to the President. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister for the payment of arrears on salary to former aircrews at Cherka Airport. GEORGIA MANCHAULEKA to the Prime Minister on the order of publication, the introduction into circulation and the organization of the distribution of stamps. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister on the comparison of health, cultural and educational workers with the corresponding categories of public officials. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work after the completion of the construction of the Novoselické Gymnasium in the Cherniewec Region. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Drabov in the Cherkas region. Oleg BILORUS to the Prime Minister for his dissatisfaction with the response of the Vinnick district government to the complaint of the employees of the open stock company “Kirova Machine Building Plant” and the limited responsibility of “Kirovsk Massiv” in the city of Mogilov-Podilski. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Prime Minister for the removal of the effects of submergment in the Novomoskov region of Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister to address the problems of unemployed citizens of the pre-retirement age of residents of the city of Stors and other cities and district centres of the Chernig region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Minister of Finance, on the negative situation that has arisen in the taxation of small businesses. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction of the Zgurivian Central District Hospital in the Kyiv region. Myla ZUBZA to the Prime Minister, regarding the compensation for the damage caused to the State-owned Askanian farm by wild birds and animals and the production of appropriate acts to address the problem within the State, which corresponded to the international conventions. JOURIA SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister on settling an extraordinary situation in the courtyard of a single invalid of the Great Homeland War of the city of Dnipropetrovska. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister for financial assistance to the Royal Commungosp company of the Suma District for the normal water supply of rural areas. Anatolia Rachánské to the Prime Minister regarding the dangerous ecological situation in Eupatoria, linked to the incompatible use of the Eupatoria seaport and the design of a cargo complex on Lake Donuzlaw. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the basis of the appeal of the employees of the Open Shareholders Association “Czerka Sugarafinade Plant” to investigate the legality of the privatization of the enterprise, bankruptcy proceedings, the repayment of the debt on salary, the preservation of property. GEORGIA MANCHAULEKA to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen with the construction of new terminal complexes of the State International Airport Borispil. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the therapeutic building of a children’s hospital in Bila Church and for the gasification of rural areas in the Biloczerk district. Tamara PROSKURATOVA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the gas pipeline to the village of Šramkovka Drabovska district of Cherkas region. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the second line of the 43rd apartment house in the village of the Lord of Kiev. Vassila NADRAGI to the Prime Minister for compensation for the cost of the premium transport of suburban rail transport. Istwana HYDOŠA to the Prime Minister for the introduction of the Russian nationality into the census of the population of Ukraine in 2001. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, concerning the violation of article 35 of the Constitution and the intervention in church affairs by the authorities of the executive branch of the province of Ravensk, in particular the community of the Council of St. Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Ostroga. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister about the delay in paying salaries to employees of the closed stock company “Ukrenergomontage” of Kiev. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for the review of the distribution of funds for the repair of the public roads of the Donetsk Region. [[CORSACKOV, HARA, COMAR, AND OTHER]] Istwana HYDOŠA to the Prime Minister for the payment of arrears on salary to the staff of the budget area of the Beregov district of Zakarpat. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister on the relationship between the State budget and the budget of the city of Feodosia. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister on the negative consequences of transferring the national specialist enterprise “Cornobilska AES” to another department. [[BRONNIK, HUDIMA, AND OTHERS]] Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister regarding transport and computer provision of public educational institutions in the Highlands of the Hersonian region. Mr Paul TOWCHANA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the housing rights of residents of the collective enterprise “Poltava cotton factory”. valentine SAVIC to the Prime Minister for information on the Government’s activities in the field of waste management in Ukraine. Alexia BABURIN to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, Head of the Security Service regarding the events at the Institute of Oil Cultures of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agrarian Policy, Head of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve for the Disbursement of Land Reserve Debt to the Karat Agricultural Enterprise for the Procurement of Grains to the Reserve in 2001. Anatoly of Rachansk to Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenk, Head of the Federation of Professional Associations, regarding the non-admission of reduced numbers of children covered by organized forms of health, especially under-served categories, and the restoration of the work of day-care camps and a sanatorium in the city of Eupatoria. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on investigating the legality of the financing of the election campaign for President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General for the examination of the unlawful actions of the prosecutor’s office in the Lviv region. Mr. Leonida CERNOVECH to the Attorney General regarding illegal construction in the area of the Marzenjaki Massi in Kiev. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Attorney General on the legality of the use by the local authorities of the allocated funds for the development of the infrastructure of the village of Nerubayske Bilyai district of Odessa. Mr. Stephen HMARI and Mr. Paul MUTCHAN to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service, regarding the situation in the city of Nicopol and in the district of Nnipropetrov. John GAVRILUK to the Attorney-General on the legality of the internal affairs officers of the Podvolocchid region of Ternopil region during the verification of the activities of the Chance Plus agricultural enterprise. Levka LUKJANENKA to the Attorney-General for the protection of the rights of peasants who have been violated as a result of the illegal distribution of land and property rations by the management of the limited liability “Struga” village of Struga Novousické district of Hmeljna district. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of legislation by the management of the Open Shareholder Association “AP11512” in the sale of the property of a company located in the city of Ananiwi of the Odessa Region. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, for violations of legislation during bankruptcy proceedings concerning a limited liability association “Celish granite career”. Ms. Vladimir Lještenka to the Attorney-General on the status of enforcement of legislation by the Sosnicki District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Chernigiv region in criminal investigations. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General for violations of the law in the actions of officials of the Lazuren Village Council of the Hersonian Region. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for the purpose of investigating and investigating the unknowingly absent Alexander Diuttir, a violation of the law by members of the law enforcement agencies of the Sumu district. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Attorney General for failure by the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye District of Judicial Decisions. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General about the abuse of power by the deputy head and the headmaster of the Murovanokkurilovack district government administration of the Winnitsky region. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General regarding the improper performance of official duties by the procurator of the city of Alcevsk when considering a citizen’s complaint. Valeria SAMOPLAVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the unsatisfactory investigation of the road traffic accident with the fatal result of the investigation of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to the Attorney General on the legality of the restructuring in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea at the School of Public Education No.14 and Ditsad No.18. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney General on the legality of the decision of Kyivrada to alienate the school’s fruit garden from the holding company Kyivmishkbud on Radovny Street. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney-General regarding the inappropriate response to the facts of violations by officials of the Kyiv Council of Legislation in the organization of the work of the municipal enterprise “Editing the newspaper “Evening Kiev” and the illegal cessation of the release of the newspaper “Fazenda”. Vladimir NECHIPRECKA to the Attorney-General, Head of the Supreme Court, on the inaction of the Prosecutor's Office and the courts of the Poltava region with regard to the protection of the constitutional rights of the joint-owners of the Pyratinski Sirzavod. Oleg GUMENUKA to the Attorney General on the legality of making decisions regarding the allocation of land under construction in the square and children’s playground in the city of Kyiv. Vladimir YAVORIYSKA to the Attorney-General on the criminal responsibility of officials of the open-ended shareholders association Lvivnaftof product for looting a huge number of shareholders, the vast majority of whom are war-torn, political prisoners and vulnerable groups of the population. Valery CONANOVALKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for the illegal activity of the Church of Scientology in Ukraine. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General for abuse in human resources policy, violations of the economic and administrative activities of the head of the Shevchenkov Reservoir and the chief doctor of the Shevchenkov District Hospital in Kiev. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the responsibility of officials of the Blackwater Channel collective enterprise for the illegal collection of salaries from the population for the inspection, maintenance and repair of water treatment devices. The GMIR to the Attorney-General for the return to the state ownership of the reserve fund of the formerly appropriate delicacies of the name of the Dørjinsky, Luhansk region. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General on the criminal actions of the Head of the Supervisory Board of the Open Association of Biotzerksilmash, supported by the law enforcement authorities of the city of Bila Church, Kyiv region. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the State Property Fund on the facts of unlawful actions by the Director of the private firm “Rubin-A”, lack of proper response by the officials of the Colombian City Council, the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the region of John-Frank and the city of Colomia, as well as a violation during judicial proceedings by the judge of Lunch. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General concerning the settlement of property and land problems of shareholders of the former agricultural society with limited responsibility for the name of Shewchenk of the district of Tsurupina in the Hersonian region. Igora JEREMEEVA to the Attorney General for violation of the rights to housing of citizens living in uninhabitable homes on Bauman Street in Kiev. Mr. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Attorney-General on the criminal responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs for the organization in Ukraine of terror against political opponents, as well as on the attempt to protect against the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy Kozachenko. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Minister of Internal Affairs for the appointment of Rybosapko as head of the Department of Internal Affairs on the Lviv Railway. Jury CARMAZIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney-General on violations by representatives of organized criminal groups of the constitutional right to entrepreneurship by the leading Ukrainian producer of granite poultry, the Open Association of South Africa, to bring it to a stable financial failure and to steal property in a particularly large way. Igor ŠURMI to the Secretary of State for the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens involved in the All-U.S. protest campaign No Prices Raised for immediate consideration of the collective appeal addressed to the President of Ukraine. Leonidas GATHIC to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the factual circumstances of the response of the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliamentary question regarding the violation of the procedure for examining the appeal of a citizen of Lazarus. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the shift to the road balance of the Kiev Road Service on the road along Kyiv Road in Borispol. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the abuse of the office of the Rector of the Herson Legal Institute of the National University of Internal Affairs. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the ineffective operation of accelerated intercity trains and the improper service of passengers by the South West Railway. A LEG OF PANASOVSKI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the numbering of pensions for those who have been employed with particularly harmful and dangerous working conditions. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on violations of the registration of State property rights in the land. Ms. SLABENKA to the Minister of Economic Affairs for the violation of the order of distribution of subsidies in the Volinsk region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Health, Minister of Youth and Sports for the acquisition of a special wheelchair for a four - year - old disabled person living in the village of Strybez in the region of the Red Army. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Education and Science for the Restoration of the Work of the Ukrainian School in the city of Torez Donetsky. Eugene HYRNIKA to the minister of environmental protection for the pollution of the village of Broshnów-Osad of Rožnetów district of Ivano-Frankiv district by the waste of the enterprise. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding information concerning the case that was violated in relation to Kolesnik. [[COMAR, BRONNIKOV, AND OTHERS]] BORISS TO THE GOVERNMENTAL MINISTRY for failure to execute the court’s decision to repay the debt. VOLADIMIR JAVORIY — THE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVES FOR THE APPROACH OF MONEY FOR THE UNBITCHED GOVERNMENT TO THE OFFICERS, who had been ignored since 2001 by the former leadership of the State. RAISES TO THE FUEL AND ENERGY MINISTER OF HEALTH FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF THE AFFAIRS MADE BY THE DESTRUCTION OF THE GROUNDS IN THE MINUTE CUEL No. 9 “Capital” of Donetsk. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Minister of Education and Science for the conservation of the number of teaching jobs in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv district and the failure to reduce the existing network of educational institutions. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy regarding the request of staff members of the Dolin Central District Hospital of the Ivano-Frankov Region for the appropriateness of payroll. People’s MPs’ groups to the Minister of Health on the acquisition of an ultrasound device for the clinic at the Donetsk State Medical University. [[COMAR, CORSACOV, AND OTHERS]] Oleg BILORUS to the city’s Kiev head for the construction of a religious building in a rest area in the Holy District of Kiev. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Sevastopol City Public Administration for the declaration of a shelf within the Black Sea territorial waters of Ukraine as a zone for the protection of historical and archaeological cultural heritage. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund regarding the order of recalculation of pensions for staff members. Stepan Cloud to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, on the situation surrounding the assets of the former All - Ukrainian Central Council of Professional Associations and the Ukrainian Council of Trades. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the city’s Kiev head on the need to amend the regulations of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the payment of cold water to the population for cooking hot water. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Kiev City Head for the restoration of justice and the restoration of the status of the Kiev Orthodox Cultural Center on the street of Triochal. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the purpose of demolishing architecture and building on the street of Veliki-Vasilkovsky,37 and ignoring the rights of residents of the house to housing. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Kiev City Head on the illegal involvement of officials of district administrations in the activities of residential and building cooperatives and associations of joint owners of Kiev’s houses, regarding the forced entry into the utility “Head Information and Computing Centre”. Igor YUCHNOVSKI to the city’s Kiev head regarding the inadmissibility of construction in the area between the streets of Panas Mirna and the forest of Ukraine. Vassila NADRAGUA to the Kyiv City State Administration, Kiev City Head, for the support of children’s social organizations. BORISS BESPECT to the Kiev City Head for an unsatisfactory response to the appeal regarding the failure of the Open Shareholder Society to rent a land plot. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the use of state budget funds and local budget funds in Dniprodjyńsk. Vladimir LEVCUN to the Head of the Security Service regarding the illegal sale of land in the village of Kozin, Obukhiv district, Kyiv region. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Head of the State Securities and Stock Market Commission, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Security Service for the systematic violation of the rule of law in the course of targeted judicial proceedings on the recognition of invalid acts of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market for the privatization of the Nicolepolska Ferrospile Plant. Anatolia Seminoga to the Qualifying Commission of Judges of Luhansk’s Appeals District for bringing a judge of the Yellow District Court of Lugansk to disciplinary responsibility. John BOKHO to the State Property Fund on the situation that has arisen in the open-ended stockholder society of the “Ukrainian Science and Research Institute of Paper”. Anatolia Seminoga to the Qualificational Commission of Judges of the Dnipropetroval Court of Appeal for the disciplinary responsibility of Judge Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs on the violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the political persecution and the establishment of the rightfulness of the discovery of a criminal case against the citizen of Rodkous Irina Eugenyivne, deputy director of the village of Bogoljubko Lutsky District of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Volinsk Region, and the biased attitude of the prosecutor of Krawczuk’s case. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria SAMOPLAV to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the school in the village of Zolotin in the region of Rivena. Igor Nasalika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the suspension of criminal proceedings against officials of the DP "Poltavanaftogasgeology" and the Poltava oil exploration expedition. Igora NASALICA to the Minister of Environmental Protection regarding the appeal of the Working Group "Poltawasgeology" to the appointment of the Director-General of the Department of "Poltavanaftogasgeology". Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unceremonious intervention of the city's head, Lvov Bunjak, in the work of the newspaper Ratusha, blackmail and pressure on the acting editor of the newspaper Mikolu Saviliev. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the two-year strand of debt and the failure of the courts to implement decisions by state-owned enterprises subordinated to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the non-closure and restructuring of public educational institutions in the Malin region of the Zitomir region, rural settlements, Ustinyevka, Budovývka, Visov, Fortunatovka, Tarasovka. Leonidas Segienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovsk Region on the illegal actions of the Department of State Executive Services of the City Administration of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska. Mary Markusz to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on gross misconduct in the execution of judges executed by the Hustian Air Force of the Zakartat region. María Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Young People's Rights, amending Ukraine's 2005 budget, which led to lower funding for higher education programmes for young people, pay degrees, benefits, credit for young people, financing of youth social projects. Andrija School to the Attorney General and Minister of Internal Affairs on the implementation of measures to prevent the re-entry of Ukraine and the provision of ex-head protection to the CBC, Sergey Kiwalov. Thus, honourable colleagues, 116 MPs have been asked about the factions of "Our Ukraine" - 23. Communists - 21, "Ukraine" - 13, "U.S.P.U. - 4, "Ukraine" - 4, "The People's Party - 8, "Socialist Party - 8, "Timoshenko - 12, "The Union - 2. Ukrainian People's Party - 10. Democratic Ukraine - 7, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues! We've used more than 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Our time is spent, what will we do? Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's go from now on, we'll be like this, if we have 45 minutes, then we'll put in the speech, then we'll read the queries. If you have 30 minutes, first you're going to sign up, then you're going to read the questions. Because we are also spending time, instead of Zarya Katashova, who signed up for the first time, the national deputy Anastasiav is invited to prepare Lily Grigorovitch. On the board, please give the names of the national deputies who are registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u2	Valentin Anastassiev, Ukrainian Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, guests, radio listeners and TV viewers. In recent times, there has been a sharp increase in the efforts of certain communities to address the reconciliation of various categories of older persons with regard to the recognition of UPA by the warring party of the UPA and to give them the status of participants in the Great Homeland War. All of this has caused a storm of resentment in the Great Homeland War and, above all, in those who, in a threatening hour with weapons in their hands, have been protected by their own family, their home from a hateful enemy who has protected the homeland and saved the world civilization from the brown plague. This has resulted in a massive flow of letters, petitions, statements from veteran organizations on this issue to Heads of State and public organizations. I've got one of those in my hands. I'm going to post some of this document. President Yushchenko of Ukraine, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Prime Minister Timoshenko, President of the Council of Veterans' Organizations of Ukraine Gerasimov, discussed at the meeting of the primary veteran organization No. 7 of the Trudy of the Smolen region of Kiev on the possibility of reconciliation of veterans of the Great Homeland War with former UN-OPA soldiers, believes that no reconciliation and cooperation of war veterans with the members of UN-OPA is possible at this stage. It is not possible because former UPA UN soldiers and their current leaders have both remained on the platform of nationalist professional ideology. It is not possible, because members of the UPA U.N. military forces committed the crime and against their Ukrainian compatriots; It is not possible, because former bandits and their teachers attack the veterans of the Soviet army, beat them, prevent them from celebrating the commemorative dates of the Great Homeland War; it is impossible, because, at the request of former bandits, some areas of Ukraine have changed the names of settlements, streets, squares and that is impossible. I would like to continue, but I would like to announce the following. It is UNU UPA soldiers and their current ideological leaders who are not ready for reconciliation. On the contrary, every year they intensify this problem and call for a fight against the true winners.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u3	Time's up. It's not me turning it off, it's automatically unlocking everything. Well, 10 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u4	Such statements are made by numerous veteran organizations. The organization of Ukrainian veterans states that, in the current reality, when society is torn apart by many contradictions, when the day does not pass so as to avoid confrontations, marches and picketings, it is unacceptable and impossible to add another club with the participation of an older generation. Dear leaders, you are approached by older people, you listen to their voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u5	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare the King. Please give the names of the national MPs who have been registered for orientation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u6	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I can't help but react to the previous speech. We are with you today in the Parliament of our independent Ukrainian state, under the trident that is at the head of our coat of arms, which is here in the Supreme Council under this blue and yellow flag. Under these symbols were fighters for an independent Ukrainian state under these symbols, and this is the State in which Parliament sits and the people who are willing to accept and welcome the marching of the Wehrmacht before the Kremlin walls, but cannot in any way understand and honor those for whom they are today the deputies of an independent Ukrainian state. This reminds me of the famous history of the twelve chairs when Kisa Vorobyaninov cried out in the dead of night darkness, "We are strangers here at this holiday of life!" People good, I'm going to the left of Parliament, don't be strangers in your country, respect those for whom you are members of an independent Ukrainian state. And now, dear friends, I would like to say the same thing about human rights. Unfortunately, I don't see a lot of TV cameras where our journalists, unfortunately, I don't see a sea of MPs who have wrapped up the rostrum of this Parliament, but I should. Because I'm going to talk not just about individual rights, but about the rights of the entire nation, about the rights of 48 million of our citizens. Dear National Deputies, according to the status of the National Deputies and our constitutional duties, we will receive with you the reports of our National Court of Auditors, which shows us whether or not to execute or abuse the country’s most important financial and political document, which is called the State Budget. I can bring here a whole stack that talks about the violation, the abuse, the theft, the waste of funds that went to the special fund for 2003-2004. Dear friends, it's 9 billion. I can tell you about the thefts that took place last year and the abuse of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the tendering of famous medicine in the previous year, the abuses that were on the Yulmashi and so on. Dear friends, for this purpose, we need to call in the Palace "Ukraine" members of all levels to make people understand and know that there are such violators, there are such thieves. For people to know that power cannot correct in a hundred days all that has been stolen for at least the last five years. By the way, some of the funds could be found yesterday in Mariana Park, where people got 100 bracelets of blue symbolism, blue and white and cards. Multiply 5,000 by 100 bracelets and figure out where they went from.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u7	Yeah, you took your time, I know, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u8	So, dear friends, in 100 days, young honest Ukrainian authorities cannot correct what has been torn apart in the last 4-5 years. But at least 500,000 bracelets were available in the park yesterday, when the list was distributed to people who came to pick and fight for no reason. That's why I think we should hold a special budget meeting and make such a definition of "moral criminals." You're afraid of criminal responsibility, administrative responsibility, we need to name the moral criminals who today are guilty of violations of the rights of the entire Ukrainian people. That is, by the way, an answer to those defenders who are willing to defend the offender of criminal discipline, whether it's from Donetsk or Zacarpathia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u9	Instead of the King's word, Korsakov, the faction of "Ukraine". Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u10	Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" claims that it is fabricated for the political order of the active power of Boris Kolesnikov's case that is falling apart in front of the eyes. Nevertheless, the head of the Donetsk Arch continues to be kept in solitary confinement, and the investigation leads to violations of the rights of the participants. In an effort to get a demonstration against Kolesnik, the police are harassing the chief accountant of the White Swan shopping centre, Irina Igolova, a single mother of a minor child, and a caregiver chained to a 75-year-old mother's bed. After two days of so - called discussions at UBZ, Donetska spent 15 hours a day in the hospital with an ischemic stroke, losing her tongue, paralyzed the right part of her body. On May 14, she traveled to the diagnostic center. After holding the mask show, the police stopped the taxi and, after holding the accountant, delivered him from Donetsk without a charge, where they continued with her a long-standing so-called talk. At 6 p.m., an unprovoked defendant was put on a microbus without being informed by a close, defenceless sick woman under the protection of four armed impostors, who were transported across Ukraine to the isolation centre of the city of Kiev. In the process of cracking down on Kolečnik, members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs violated a number of requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code, including article 116 of the CPC, according to which judicial investigation is conducted in the city of the commission of the crime. What crime did the White Swan accountant commit? She's guilty of refusing to talk to Kolesnikov. May 17th, the Pecher Court decided to transfer Igolecov to SIZO number 13. This decision is cynically motivated by the fact that a sick woman can hide from the investigation, that Igolíkova needs stationary treatment, is a threat to her life. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" requires the release and punishment of the perpetrators of the abuse of Irina Igoły. We demand an end to the intimidation of members of the Kolesnik process and the release of the head of the Donetsk garrison, which is not required to remain behind bars. We require the IMF and the Henprocurator's Office to respond to this statement and to take action, not another formal write-off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u11	Viacheslav Koval, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u12	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, Yushchenka bloc faction "Our Ukraine". A statement by the "Our Ukraine" faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the observance of the memory of victims of political repression. Every third Sunday of May, we honor the memory of hundreds of thousands of victims of Ukrainians, Russians, Poles, Jews, representatives of other nationalities who were murdered by the Stalinic regime, being taken away by thieves at night and hidden in a bull forest near Kiev. Throughout Ukraine, the totalitarian regime has left dozens, hundreds of its criminal marks. And each of them are tens, hundreds of thousands of our countrymen's lives. The exact number of victims of that bloody tyranny is still unknown. Light a candle, stand quietly at the cross could have been a memorable sign, pray for the innocent millions of Ukrainians, and remember the story. 350 years ago, Ukraine overcrowded Moscow. Yet, despite its longevity, family tradition, the number of the Ukrainian nation grew very slowly. Throughout the ages, the soul and the body have been systematically smothered, and the flowers of the Cossacks, the peasants, and the intelligence have been destroyed. The exile, the revolutions, the collectiveization, the famines, the wars, the political executions. In the 20th century, the growing number of Ukrainians was virtually halted by the criminal Bolshevik regime. And at the end of the war, there was a nonhuman racist idea to dissipate the Ukrainian nation in one sixth of the land. The wagons are running low. The leader of the National Movement of Ukraine, Viacheslav Crnowil, based on scientific research, said that Ukraine could enter the 21st century - old population. Such a terrible price for colonial captivity. Such a terrible picture of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. The former authorities seemed to have silenced the facts of the thefts, pretending that nothing terrible had happened. But we know that a people who do not know their past has no future. Today, national authorities, along with the people, honor the memory of millions of hardworking fellow countrymen. There is the political will to build a memorial in the Bukovnian Forest. We support these steps. To this end, the faction "Our Ukraine" proposes to establish on a national level a day to honor the memory of victims of political repression. Immediately, still living witnesses, there are archival materials, appropriate research to establish all places of Bolshevik crime, the exact number of victims, and the creation of books of the innocent. Set up memorial buildings at every scene of the tragedy. To ban in the former Yellow Palace, earlier the Mechlitz building, where mass executions were carried out, entertainment and later to turn it into a museum of political repression. The faction "Our Ukraine" refers to all those who can join the cause -- authorities, scientists, public and political organizations, citizens who can testify or provide relevant materials -- the whole community to restore historical memory, we will become a full nation of state. Glory to Ukraine, Slava.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u13	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Prepare John Sidorovich Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I have to move away from the planned theme of the speech, and I can't help but react to the first performance by a Communist faction that has been scheming, plying the veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army. I want to remind all those who practice such an ideology that in 1918 the Ukrainian state was. The Ukrainian People’s Republic, as an independent state, has been recognized by many nations around the world and has functioned as a state in Europe. Smothered, flooded, and drowned the Ukrainian People’s Republic of Bolshevik in blood. And from this point on, we think that honest Ukrainians think that Ukraine is occupied by Bolshevik invaders. And it was the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army that, after 39 years of coming to Galicina Soviet armies, and when they saw in June, at the end of June 41st at every district center, at every district center, in every village of hundreds, thousands of murdered, this terrible massacre by the Soviet authorities and the laws of the NCCD, no doubt the people would not have been the people if they hadn't organized the rebel army and opposed the fascist occupations and the Bolshevik invaders. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that the new authority in Ukraine will in the near future bring about the proper status of the defenders of the country, the Ukrainian homeland, and not some unknown abstract, that category of veterans who were not afraid to stand up against the two invaders and defend the interests of Ukraine. I believe it will be soon. But, dear friends, as I go on with this subject, I want to touch on the subject that essentially continues this previous one. We know that in 14 years the Kuchma regime destroyed Ukraine, but in a kind of way. And today he's been robbing the state, robbing the state. And today, when law enforcement starts to order, this Sabbath begins to seem to support those criminal authorities. It is unfortunate that the Supreme Council has made a foolish decision by addressing the Attorney General. Dear friends! But when they find Bakaya, Scrubbing, Bilocony, Kiwalova, Bodelana, Medvedchuk, they'll close, eventually Kuchma and everyone else, the Supreme Council will only do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u15	The word has been given to John the Party of Socialists to prepare John Alexander Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u16	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to associate myself with the speech of Deputy Kowal, that we should still honor the memory of the victims of the Stalinic repression today. Literally I just got a call from a colleague of ours, MP John Spuddarenko, who is now on his way to a nameless grave in the woods under Chernigov. Where in 38 years his father was shot for nothing, for nothing, just because he was a peasant. And I went out to this rostrum to continue the topic that I started yesterday by asking Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaci. I'm talking again about the release of the Director General of the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk, a brilliant scientist, a philosopher, a textologist, Sergey Galchenk. There was a wild situation, Sergey Galchenko, one of those self-sustaining advocates for the new President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka, and the new President of Ukraine, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko, who came to the museum and did not understand the essence of the scientific debate about changing the exhibition of the museum, listening to only one side, as it were, of the guides, not of the scientific concept. So he's got an order, and he's got to make a statement, and he's out of the museum. If Ukraine begins to disperse like scientist Sergei Galchenko, then we have come very close to saying no. I don't think it's necessary to talk about Sergei Galchenk's credits to Ukrainian science and Ukraine in general. It is enough to say that it is thanks to him that the full meeting of the works of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk is now being held. He is one of those who has provided the full edition of the works by Paul Grigorovich Tichini, Olesia Terentiyovich Potter, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Soshira and so on and so forth. It's not random in science, it's not. The museum. And if we start taking pictures of these people from our national column, there will be no meaning in our culture or in our museums. That's why I'm asking this speech to address the President of Ukraine as my MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u17	Ivan Alexanderovich Gerasimov, Communist faction, prepare Mary Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u18	Gerasimov, Communist faction. Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens. The celebrations of the celebrations of the great 60th anniversary of our Great Victory in the Great Homeland War have yet to be celebrated, and the officials have already begun an unprecedented attack on war veterans, depriving themselves of the only opportunity to receive free medical care in hospitals specifically designed for veterans. Medicine with every day is not just paid, but expensive, and therefore not accessible to disabled participants in combat and all veterans. The organization of Ukrainian veterans, together with State structures, has not only been able to maintain but also to expand the network of hospitals for veterans. These are thirty hospitals and twenty-eight hospitals, which are only 9,000 beds. Instead of expanding and making these hospitals multi-purpose, i.e. expanding the range of medical care for veterans, especially in rural areas, where there is no trace of a veteran staying in the hospital receiving all the necessary assistance: hearing, dental care, eye surgery and other persistent discussion on the elimination of hospitals, the conversion of the elderly. Decisions have already been made to transfer unique, expensive medical equipment from hospitals to other medical facilities. The main thing is to try to undermine and destroy highly skilled medical personnel, starting with the heads of agencies. First of all, it is the alleged replacement of the Director of the Ukrainian State Health and Social Centre of Veterans, where 600 veterans from all regions of Ukraine are treated at one time. The Centre has been in existence for 30 years now, for 25 years, it has served as director of Yuri Alexandrovic. And it is totally incomprehensible that the removal from office of this deserving person is caused. Veterans from Ternopolsk, Hmielnicky, Ivano-Frankovsky, Volynsk, Kiev, Poltavsk and other areas have already protested against the Council, demanding that they do not touch the hospital and its medical personnel. The medics have a good aphorism: "Don't harm" is a very vague expression for this case. Given the age of veterans, from 70 to 80 years of age, their health, personal merit before fatherhood, we ask you, Adam Ivanovich and Vladimir Mihajlovich, and ask you, dear fellow MPs, to support the requirement of veterans. Please consider my statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u19	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Markus microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u20	Deputy Marcus, Communist faction. Please pass the word to a fellow MP named Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u21	Please, Vladimir Puzakov. Get ready for Melnichuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u22	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Events related to the 60th century of the Great Victory have shown that the historic memory of the people of Ukraine of the real events of the Great Homeland War is being abominably destroyed. Acting on heroism and the memory of war veterans who had won the victory over fascism was widespread. That is how the victory celebrations in the city of Kirov took place. On May 9th, hundreds of veteran frontists gathered in the fortress shafts, where they were greeted by thousands of people. And in the orange authorities, there was not enough courage to say a few warm words to war veterans; perhaps from a red color, the authorities simply hid themselves, more loyally fled. In the area, the same picture was observed by veterans. Indeed, the officials of the government, the orange revolutionaries, did not have a few words in their paws to thank the veterans of the war, the soldiers of the Victory for Life, for the peace they gave us all. Remember, conquerors demand power, not porridge and a hundred grams of vodka, but respect, wealth, well - being, and respect for their history. Winner veterans demand the historic truth of the Great Homeland War. It is this truth that must become the primary instrument for the rearing of the young generation. On the television screens of the "Era" and "1+1" there was a film about the Great Homeland War "Freedom." As if to show the true pages of this horrendous reality, it was this film that should have put the positive print in the souls of young people and minors, but who could have seen it? When it's 6:30 a.m., almost no one turns it on. And at half past 12 o'clock, when everyone's sleeping the same way. On the other hand, UPA’s commander - in - charge, Kruth, was shown at a normal time, even on the bright day of victory. For he led the antipropaganda against all the holy things, calling the conquerors invaders. This is how our native tapestries raised their hand to the holy glory of the conquerors over the brown plague. In the flesh and soul of the children and grandchildren of the liberators, they want to put in someone else’s dark, disgusting. I'm talking to all my compatriots, don't believe any of them, because they shot our soldiers in the back, they robbed and burned entire villages, and with bread, they met fascist invaders. Let us be honest that no military honors have been given to their defenders. The orange bourgeois authorities have done their utmost to bring about a day of great victory as quickly and calmly as possible. And that's what Ukrainian veteran capitalists of the Great Homeland War will never forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u23	The word is Michaela Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u24	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of Ukraine’s Socialist Party is concerned about the country’s land reform, which could end tragically for those for whom it is being carried out for peasants. It seems that some invisible hand is consistently pursuing a policy of separating peasants from the ground, but this is actually the result of the absence of any hand. Since then, self - control has moved on from this process, giving the Ukrainian people’s lands to indulge the world and the heartless depositors of capital, such as danilettes, herbs, and diminutives. One of the most common conflicts during earth’s disintegration is the identification of the place where peasants are to receive their pie. There are important factors, such as soil quality, distance from the village, roads, and so forth. If the bench is 20 kilometers from the village and still has no soil fertility, there is no point in wasting energy and time on it. But those who are close to local leadership receive privileged land parts. Socialists stress the need to create a full Earth cadastre with a full description of land and soil. This will speed up the process of equitable acquisition of the land of the true owner. Criminals don't stop even before they use "dead souls." Thanks to this scheme, unprincipled and greedy officials, as well as their subordinates, appointed by the State to protect the rights of peasants and to help them learn more about laws and their own admission to land rule, are almost uninhabitable. Millions of acres [million ha] of earth have not yet been gutted. The Socialist faction calls on President Kabmin, executive authority on the scene, to return face to the village. If you want to save a peasant, you need to act now. We're talking to all the faction leaders. Dear friends, let's make a parliamentary commission, a special investigator. We're going to have a commission to deal with Parliament in conjunction with the government that actually happened in Ukraine with the land that it really belongs to today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, we have exhausted all mental and unthinkable rules of the Rules. Let's talk about it. We are now going to have to move to a question -- a report on the implementation of Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act. The Professional Committee suggests that we address this issue within two and a half hours. And I think they're right. Because it's one of the most important documents that we accept and we have to control accordingly. In view of the fact that we have exceeded the rules of the Rules of Procedure for the Declaration of Requests, of the People’s Deputies for more than 40 minutes, I would like to ask you to work without interruption and to hear questions about the implementation of the 2004 State Budget for Ukraine. Is there any objection? Thank you. Yeah, there's another break coming up here, but maybe we can handle it now. Yes, please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, three minutes from the two factions of the Social Democratic Party and the Ukrainian Regions. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Today we hope that the compromise that was reached during the meeting with the Attorney-General yesterday, in the presence of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs, is not only a hindrance, but is really an attempt to find a way out of the situation that is now in the country that we are ready to admit today that political repression is taking place in the country, which unfortunately is being used by law enforcement authorities today to execute a political order for the destruction of opponents of the new orange power. We are ready to prepare a series of legislative acts that today will somehow protect those who suffer from the new regime. If this willingness to compromise is used against our companions, it will be used against the evil in society, against the right for each of our people to express their political preferences and not to be afraid that they will be arrested or their own family members. In the event that this step is not taken into account, we leave the right to leave behind, starting on the first day of the work of the Supreme Council next plenary week, to block its work until the authorities admit their mistakes, to give no freedom to people who are now behind the bars solely for not being afraid to stand up for their political views and those who have not hidden that they are supporting a candidate who is not Victor Yuschenk. In this regard, we invite all in the Supreme Hall. In the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine, for cooperation and a path to compromise. If no such route is found, we will continue our determined action in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I'd like you to understand the situation correctly. First of all, I think you'll agree that the Supreme Council has done everything that it has been able to do, that it can't do otherwise, because we don't have those rights. That's the first one. The second, indeed, is now after yesterday's meeting of faction leaders and groups with the Attorney-General and the Minister of Internal Affairs is on the way to work. And I would like to point out to everyone that this was, by the way, a proposal by the Attorney General, and more by the Minister of Internal Affairs, is going to be about improving legislation, so that if the Supreme Council and the President sign it, there are more possibilities for the Supreme Council to intervene in a particular political or social process. And I think it's the most accurate way for us to get out of this situation without breaking the laws, without oppressing the situation, rather than responding to what's going on in society. And the third. I would like to address not as much of a session room as those who listen to us with understanding, because some of our colleagues accuse us that the Supreme Council had no right to accept that it had accepted an appeal to the Attorney General. That was the will of 277 national deputies, and we did not oblige the Attorney General to do anything. We asked the Attorney General to consider the possibility of changing the rate of previous detention, as it were, protection and so on and so forth. We didn't tell him what to do. We simply, on behalf of the Supreme Council, made an offer to the Attorney General to consider this issue within the framework of current legislation. So there were no violations, and once again I emphasize that it was the Supreme Council's reaction to events that concerned our society. And so, let us act within the framework of actual legislation, for yesterday the Chief of the Supreme Council justly said, that still let us look at real and true, and look at the situation differently when we had a sharp situation at the end of last year, the Supreme Council also took the liberty of solving it. No one is likely to deny that it is because of our decisions that we have made that situation that has been eliminated. So here's another reverse process, tomorrow might be quite different. Let's still be solid, and what's more, we're talking about our recent colleagues, our colleagues sitting here in the walls of Parliament, we're the people's deputies of Ukraine. Or colleagues who led the authorities in places. Tomorrow, I stress again, anyone can find themselves in a situation like this, with any political power. So let's be balanced, not politicizing, but really appreciating this situation and once again stressing that we made a decision with you yesterday, I'm looking at Viktor Lavrentiovich Musiak on June 1st, and more precisely June 1st, their commission that he heads has to inform us about this situation, I think we can take these problems off. Now let's move on to the question. I'm going to introduce you to the procedure for reviewing the 2004 State Budget Implementation Report. Report by the Minister of Finance in 20 minutes. Answers to questions 15 minutes. A report by the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Questions for 15 minutes and 15 answers to questions. The same report of the head of the Court of Auditors for 15 minutes, a report of 10 minutes, answers to questions. And within an hour of three minutes, he's speaking from MP factions and groups and committees and then he's making a decision. This is how the rules of procedure are designed to deal with this issue. I invite you to the words of Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Minister of Finance. Please, Victor Mikhailovich. You have 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine presents to you, according to the rules of current legislation, a report entitled "Implementing the State Budget of Ukraine in the past 2004". The main indicators that characterize the State budget last year are shown in the following diagram. The government budget income of Ukraine last year amounted to 70.3 billion dollars, expenditure 80.5. You can see three columns of previous figures that characterize last year's budget compared to 2003 where the income was 55 billion, the cost was 56.1 or the deficit was 1 billion. To gross domestic product, 0.4 percent of the government budget's income last year grew by 27.6 percent and 43.5 percent. So last year there was a rather serious rise in the government budget deficit. The government budget deficit to gross domestic product increased from 0.4 to 3 percent or 7.5 times, in absolute terms, from 1 billion dollars to 10.2 billion dollars. You can see that over the course of the year, the State budget has been adjusted several times, but in the latest version of the budget -- 65 billion -- the figure has been significantly exceeded. In terms of gross domestic income, the government’s income remained at about the same level as last year. Last year, income was 20.8 percent of GDP, and in 2004 it was 27.6 percent. This is a little lower than planned, but the cost of the gross domestic product increased seriously, which led to an increase in the budget deficit next year. Last year’s budget was implemented under the following macroeconomic conditions. Please show me the following material. Initially, a gross domestic product of 283.5 billion dollars was put in the budget base. In fact, the report says it's 345 billion dollars, or a deviation of 61 billion dollars. During the year, the budget changed and GDP was set at 317 billion, and this figure of 27 billion proved to be a lower actual implementation. The growth rate of gross domestic product was 4.8 percent, the actual increase was 12.1 percent. Quite serious differences in inflation dynamics, both established and actual. So the increase in consumer prices in December was 6.3 percent, which was actually twice as high. Prices increased by 12.3 percent. A particularly serious increase in prices compared to planned figures occurred in industry, and the industry initially assumed a 5.1% increase in prices. Actual price increases exceeded 24 percent, almost five times the price increase. You have to see other indicators that characterize the base where the budget was formed last year. A few more observations that apply to inflationary dynamics. There has been a serious increase in inflation during the last months of the year. If the average increase in prices last year was 12.3%, the main part of this increase is 4 months last year: September, October, November and December. Over the four months, inflation has been 7.7 percent. You have the opportunity to compare inflation rates and modern flowers, both last year and last year. The main component of inflation was two commodity groups: prices for meat and poultry rose by almost 50% last year. Fuel and oil materials grew by 62% -- things that happened in the economy last year. In the government budget income of Ukraine last year, nearly 62% of the total is 4 articles -- value added tax -- main income article -- 23.8%. Or 4.9% to GDP. Corporate income tax is 22.8. The excise collection of goods produced in Ukraine is 8.6% and imports 5.6%. These 4 articles accounted for 12.6% of the gross domestic product of 20.4% of the total government budget income. The following materials show you the dynamics of basic income articles of the budget by basic types of taxes. Income tax, you've seen the dynamics of them in recent years. In 2003, there were 13.1 billion, or 4.9% of GDP. Last year, the government budget was 16 billion dollars, maybe 3 billion dollars more, but the share of the gross domestic product tax fell by 3 percent. This is because last year there was a drop in the income tax from 30 percent to 25 percent. The excise collection, the share of this tax on gross domestic product, fell from 4.9 percent to 4.6 percent. Although last year we received an extra one compared to 2003, or we received an increase of 1.6 billion dollars in the excise collection. We're illustrating the dynamics of income tax revenues of individuals, because in the revenue of the State budget, it's a small fraction. This is a resource article on local budgets. But the dynamics show that for the dynamics of basic tax revenue we're illustrating this material. Last year there was a rather substantial decline in income tax revenues for natural persons, not in absolute value. In absolute terms, income almost remained at the level of 2003. 13.5 billion were received in 2003 and 13.3 last year. But as a percentage of gross domestic product, the share of this article fell by 1.3 percent. This is due to the fact that since last year the tax on the income of natural persons has been substantially reduced. Since last year, there has been a 13 - percent rate in Ukraine. And such a reduction in the rate was not compensated by the legalization of income on pay. The most serious portion of the government’s income was the value added tax. You are presented with the dynamics of this tax compared to last year and compared to the changes made to the budget over the past year. Last year, the State budget received 12 billion dollars from the tax administration and nearly 12 billion from customs. Taking into account the compensation. Sorry, tax 16.7 and customs 12 billion. In total, the gross tax collection at the added cost was 28.7 billion. But last year, $12 billion was reimbursed from the budget. This amount is consistent with the total amount of tax collection that came through customs. Thus, the total net VAT to the budget amounted to 16.7 billion dollars. This number is smaller than the last one planned for the budget. Because you were going to get a higher amount of 19.8 billion, you get 16.7, you get 3.1 billion dollars. Much of the reduction in VAT revenues was made on the basis of an overscheduled refund on the added value. Last year, VAT compensation increased by 1.2 billion dollars compared to the budget schedule and the approved budget figure. Expenditure of the State budget for the past year. Over the past year, spending 80.5 billion dollars was made from the State Budget. Including current expenses - 64.4, capital costs - 15.1 To understand what happened last year in the budget, it may be better to analyze, not the total amount of expenditure in the economic classification, but their structure. It's presented in the next graph. Part of the current expenditure in the state budget has decreased considerably over the past three years. If this percentage was 96.6 percent in 2000, it fell to 79.9 percent in 2004. And it's worth paying attention to the major changes in the structure of the budget expenditure in the economic classification. Please note that over the last three years, part of the cost of salary has fallen seriously to pay for the work of budget officials in the structure of the state budget. In 2002, this proportion exceeded 20 percent for salary in 2003. In 2004, this percentage fell to 17.6 percent. At the same time, we see a serious change in dynamics in other indicators. There was a sharp increase in the share of expenses that went to capital costs. If 12.4 percent of the government budget was spent on capital spending in 2003, it was 1.5 times more than 18.7 billion last year. Especially in this part of the capital cost is capital transportation companies -- capital transportation. Part of this expenditure in the state budget structure has increased more than twice. We also have a significant increase in the cost of pensions and benefits. If the share of expenditure was 9.3 percent in 2003, it increased to almost 13 percent last year. This is related to the serious problems that we are experiencing right now, and which we have felt especially with you in the budget review, when pensions were raised last year without an adequate increase in wages. And when the Pension Fund, which was approved last year without deficit, was financed at the end of the year by the State Budget. And four months ago, grants were made on the basis of the cost of privatization of 3.7 billion. That's right. And last year, there was a pretty serious pay-and-retirement surplus. We've already talked about it when wages were raised by 70 percent and pension costs by 27 percent. And at the beginning of this year, the country faced a rather serious retirement burden. We inform you that by the beginning of this year, the size of the Pension Fund was 60 percent of the salary fund at current rates of 32 percent of the salary fund. Thanks to the changes made to the budget that we approved with you on March 23, the pension fund problem was partially eliminated. Now, under the new budget, the ratio of the Pension Fund to the Wage Fund has dropped to 48 percent. But that's far from the level that allows us to put the Pension Fund's budget on a deficient existence, and we're going to have to look at the budget. When considering the budget next year, take into account the problems that arise in the Pension Fund. If you look at the expenditure of the State Budget in the section of the functional classification, it is presented with the following material. Last year, there was a decrease in government spending, mainly on debt service. The share of debt service costs decreased from 4.6 percent to 3.8 percent. At the same time, there have been decreases in some social spheres. If 10.2 percent were allocated to education in 2003, 8.9 percent were reduced in the budget last year. There was a 0.2 percent reduction in environmental protection. At the same time, 2.4 percent of the budget spending went up for economic activity. Last year, Ukraine had a rather serious increase in budget deficits. We've already mentioned that the government budget deficit amounted to 10, 2 billion dollars. On what resources was he funded? First of all, it's coming from the privatization of state property. Last year, the budget received $9.5 billion from privatization. In addition, the deficit was covered by an increase in borrowing. This is, by the way, a problem that's worth paying attention to because, despite the record amounts of privatisation revenue, there was an increase in debt last year because 10.3 billion dollars were loaned and 9.2. So last year's debt growth was 1.1 billion dollars. The advent of privatization, we've already mentioned, has increased more than fourfold. If we received 600 million dollars from privatization in 2002, in 2004 we received 9.5 billion dollars. And in these circumstances, there's been a pretty significant increase in the volume of borrowing. The total amount of government funds in the past year amounted to 10.3 billion dollars. Of these, 6.2 billion dollars is an outside loan and the second part of the inside is 4.1 billion dollars. Last year the government made external loans because of issuing domestic-state bonds, you have the opportunity to see the terms of this loan. Two loans were made, the first loan at 6.9 6.75 per year. Second loan at a six-month hire rate in US dollars plus 3.4 percent year-on-year. The total amount of the bonds issued on the external market is 1.1 billion dollars. Last year, Ukraine’s government debt increased from 77.5 billion dollars to 85.4 billion dollars. If you looked at the problem of budget deficits, the increase in borrowing was largely not due to budget deficits. Because this debt is made up of two parts. The first so - called government debt to cover the budget deficit. Since last year he was largely covered by privatisation revenues, last year there was a slight increase in debt related to the servicing of budget deficits. Direct government debt increased by 2 percent, but last year there was a fairly serious increase in guaranteed government debt, by 55 percent. At the beginning of last year, the government-guaranteed debt amounted to 11.4 billion dollars, up to 17.7 billion dollars. You have the ability to see the basic conditions for granting loans guaranteed by the state, the loans were given to several companies, this is the South German, the State Motorways Service, the State Railway Administration, the South American CD, the Energy Agency and others. Although there has been an increase in the total amount of debt last year, but taking into account the rather good pattern of gross domestic product, last year the share of debt to gross domestic product has not increased and we have a tendency from this year to lower debt to gross domestic product, including external debt. The government debt ratio to GDP at the end of last year was 24.8 percent. Of these: direct debt of 19.6 percent and government-guaranteed debt of 5.2 percent. The actual expenditures of the State Budget on public debt repayment and servicing in the last year were made in full time, that is to say, a quality that is characteristic of all recent years, which allows Ukraine to maintain fairly good positions in the borrowing market, and we see this in the trends of borrowing this year, when there is a fairly significant dissuasion of interest on which the government is able today to place domestic government debt bonds. The results of the budget implementation are also characterized by the credit-debtor debt situation. Last year’s sovereign government debt increased by 400 million. From 2.9 billion to 3.3 billion. Debt receivables have increased to a greater extent. And this debt requires proper analysis and work, because it's lending to the budgets of the Ukrainian economy. Last year’s receivable increased by 1.6 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u29	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u30	According to the tests carried out by the State Audit Service authorities, illegal and non-target expenditures totalling $359.4 million were found. Of these, the government budget for 113 million dollars is 12 percent more than in the previous year. Dear friends, we have provided you with official data on the State Budget last year, which was shaped not by today's government, but by the obligation of any government to present relevant materials in accordance with legislation. This is the requirement of the Budget Code, this is the norm of a civilized democratic society. We would also like to inform you that for the first time this year, in carrying out the Ukrainian President's mandate, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has made a public presentation of the report on the implementation of the State Budget before the Ukrainian society. This is a standard that we will follow each year. Such a public report has been made not only by the Ministry of Finance at the expense of the State Budget but also at the expense of local budgets, and such a public report has been made for all major budget administrators. Please consider the budget implementation information for the past year and accept this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. We'll expect you to report your work in a year. Please sign up for the questions. 15 of us. Please report to the MP monitor. Jaroslav Kenzior. Get ready for Mikoli Kuharczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u32	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Victor Mikhailovich, could you now call this number roughly the sizeable figure by analyzing last year's budget and executing this budget, in view of the facts that are coming out now, as God says, all these colossal thefts, the purposeless use of the budget, as far as the official State budget is concerned, from what it might be, the approximate figure or percentage of the official figure of the 2004 State budget of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u33	It's hard to talk about. The direct loss is shown by the CPR, and by the way, these are numbers that are constantly being clarified, because the new checks that are being carried out by the relevant control authorities reveal many violations. Very much. In the field of public procurement, there are a number of excesses, several times higher prices, in relation to opaque instruments used in public procurement. And the government's request: to support the bill, perhaps in the second reading, along with the bill prepared by the Supreme Council on changes in public procurement procedures. Because it is virtually difficult to show the total amount of the loss because it was necessary to carry out an audit of all costs associated with public procurement. We, the changes in the budget structure that took place last year, also give reason for reflection. We do not particularly want to translate the problem into a political plane, for it is important that we avoid such things in the past. Now, notice the first digit that was shown from the beginning of the presentation is a serious deviation of the plan and the actual performance. And that's only on the state budget. Once again, we return to a problem that was already the subject of our discussion. The problem is that the pension fund problem could not have been allowed last year. Because there was a resource to raise salaries in the budget area for education, medicine and culture workers. But unfortunately, this resource has not been used as a tool to solve the problems of our budget. And on the other hand, providing resources for the pension fund. So I'm asking you to show me the 25th picture. We've had a serious pension imbalance. If we look at the dynamics of the last few years, we've got wage and pension dynamics, almost even. By the beginning of this year, we had a situation where by the year 2000, the pension rate had grown fivefold. And the wages have grown 3.3 times, and most of the time, they've gone back to the last year. And at the beginning of this year, please show me the next one, 26th. At the beginning of this year, Ukraine had a critical burden on pension payments in terms of gross domestic product. This size was 19%. And there's been an increase in this kind of payout almost in the last year. So, if you notice, the income of the pension fund -- the average tape is left at about the same level as GDP -- 9-10 percent, the budget burden that we are forced to do today has increased dramatically because we have no right to leave pensioners without pensions. But we have a very responsible task of balancing the Pension Fund and providing a guaranteed resource for pension payments. That's one of the reasons why you and I have made decisions about the accelerated increase in wages in the budget area. Because it's not just a solution to the social problems in the budget area, it also provides a reliable basis for the creation of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u34	Please, Kuharchuk. Behind him is Bronnik's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u35	Chef, Communist faction. Victor Mikhailovich, ask you a question. First. You yourself said that last year, the income from privatization to the budget rose fourfold. Since privatization, no 80 percent of government property has been sold. So why is the government silent today on the issue that he promised in the elections that a thorough review and reprivatization would take place? That's the first one. And the second. The government's latest actions are like patching holes. This applies to capital construction and especially to road agriculture. As you will come out of the picture, when the last law imposed on the Supreme Council virtually reduced the financing of the road economy by 700 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u36	Thank you. What's typical of last year's privatisation, and that was the subject of a debate here in this room. This is an attempt at mass privatization of the most attractive objects. And there were commissions, there was a blockade on the Supreme Council. You can not only mention the question of "Criminals," but you can think of objects that were privatized under separate special laws, where there was only a shortage of names for people who would own businesses. And you're probably judging by the discussions that are going on in public, you feel that there are decisions in the country that need to be made, that need to be transparent, where it's not in manual mode to determine who to look at, who it's not. I can inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared a bill. He had not yet been considered at a government meeting, but where clear rules or procedures had been laid down, where the law had actually been broken and the State had been harmed. In the near future, I hope that this law will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because, on the one hand, we don't have the right to go through the silence of those cases where privatization did not take place in the interests of the whole society. And on the other hand, we have to make sure that such an instrument is not a way of compiling accounts, so that this tool answers the question that the legislation is clearly violated there. As for your second question, we do not expect to lose that decision. Why? I ask you to note that in the last four and a half months, we haven't had oil imports. The sum is meager. Moreover, the decision taken by Parliament, and this is the right decision, involved changing the combined excise rates to fixed rates. According to our estimates, this decision will not lead to a significant decline in the excise revenue of the congregation. Because 60 euros per tonne of light petroleum products and 30 euros per tonne of heavy ones remain to be applied by the excise assembly. So this rate remains constant, and by the dynamics of this year's oil position, we're going to get more than we planned for five months.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u37	Please, Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u38	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, you have made a professional critical analysis of the 2004 budget. True, the increase in meat prices was not determined by the 2003 crop but by the rise in oil and lubricants prices by the double increase in world oil markets. But I have two questions. You are the creator of the tax base providing the income part of the budget and the 2004 budget was made under your tax laws. Did it meet the economic expectations of this tax base and the people? And the second. Employment dynamics, as was the case in 2004, could you say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. I can confirm that last year there was a rather serious fluctuation and increase in world prices. And there were, and there were, objective factors that gave rise to the growth of oil products. But we gave you data to compare, I think they're important to us, because we're talking about professional things, not political things, that a lot of growth was just last year, and it had reasons for rising world prices. And after the meat, the main increase did not take place in recent months, and in recent months there has also been a growth rate of 9.4 percent in five months this year. But the main increase -- almost 50 percent -- took place last year. As for the tax base. We want to notice that. Let us go back to the problem of budget deficit. Dear colleagues, we have received a budget in which no pension payments have been made. We had a budget with a 10% budget deficit. Today, because we've been through this time, we can talk about today that this deficit, if we lived with this deficit, would be in financial crisis. We'd be talking not about the revaluation of the bracelets, but about the collapse of the bracelets. We would not talk about inflation at 9.8 percent, but inflation at hundreds of percent. Thanks to our collective efforts, we have managed to change the situation and to adopt a balanced budget, it is very difficult. We didn't change the tax base, we didn't change the tax base. Tax changes were not made by the Budget Act, except for minor adjustments. For example, two copies of the increase in excise duty on a bottle of beer or 20 copies of the increase in excise duty on a bottle of vodka. It's a little correction. But we can inform you that if about 28 percent of the gross domestic product came into the budget last year, about 32 percent of the gross domestic product was coming into the budget today. Where do these revenues come from at fixed rates and tax bases? Thanks to the President's program and our joint budget adoption efforts, we have managed to seriously limit shadow schemes. What we see on customs is not all that's done there. But the flow of customs allows us to talk about the serious closure of certain holes. We can talk about the partial closure of VAT-related holes, although not all of them are on the road. What's more, we can say that some of the figures that are in official statistics today are not entirely correct. We have reason to believe that the export growth is 37 percent, and the import growth is 26 percent, not valid, not statistical. There was an increase in export prices on VAT, and the customs data that we're currently analyzing last year say that the customs value was downgraded, and this was done to avoid taxes and high rates of duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u40	Please, Vladimir Masterskin, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u41	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Dear Victor Mikhailovich! We've come to realize that it's really hard to do. be responsible for the execution of a budget that has not been submitted to you and has not been implemented by you. But, you know, I have this question that connects the two governments, this question of the remainder of the budget last year, which, according to the Treasury, was about three billion dollars on 01.01.2005. Accordingly, there were the local budgets. So, I have this question, and I ask you how are you going to solve the problem of creditors' debt in the last year? Today, they are left alone with this problem. What does the government propose as a solution to the debt problem last year in the 2005 budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u42	First of all, you have some inaccurate data left over. Unfortunately, we don't have anything on the schedule. This is the dynamics of our only treasury account. By the beginning of January, there were almost five billion dollars in this account. Last day's balance on our treasury account is 5 billion 880 million dollars, so we're holding on to about the same amount. And it's not just the General Fund of the State Budget, it's the funds and the local budgets, and today we can say that there are more local budgets here, and they have the right to use them, and in that mode the treasury account works, and it's the cost of special funds. But this account, like any bank, has to have some minimum volume. The higher the budget turnover, the greater the volume. In addition, you know that we have a great deal of expense on accounts because at the beginning of the month we make grants and lend them to the Pension Fund. Because the Pension Fund is unable to pay pensions at the beginning of the month, we have a fairly serious account fluctuations. In terms of receivables, we really need to do a lot of things. First of all, it's about receivables. We don't have the right to live in conditions where the budget is lending, we have to go to the new system, and it's not simple and it's going to take a lot of time, it's going to have to do with the accounting of liabilities and the payment of budget liabilities, including the State Budget and the local budgets, it's a completely different philosophy of treasury budget execution. As far as debt is concerned, it is a problem and a discipline of budgetary institutions and organizations, including ministries and departments. Because no institution has the right to make commitments unless the budget provides for them. And by the way, I think we need to make adjustments to the budget code to solve the problem. In part, we are some of the problems, some of the steps we have taken in this year's budget, but this problem is not addressed in this budget. And the main thing is to bring up discipline. Because no one has the right to make a commitment, or to make a commitment to build or do anything if the funds are not in the budget. Because we're never going to balance the budget and we're always going to have a commitment to the economy, and that's essentially the removal of funds from the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u43	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u44	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I'd like to go back to history, you're reporting in 2004, 178 million villages have not received funding, 100 million of them are compensation for crops of vegetables and vegetables. 100 million, I repeat. The government certainly can't take all the debts because there's pensions on your shoulders and so on. What the villagers can expect is whether the government will be able to compensate for 2004 by the end of this year. That's the first one, isn't it? And the second question. As long as it takes the government, it's been five months for you to come up with a regulation on how to fund farmers from their fund, 37 million dollars have been allocated. The president promised 200 million at the convention, so far farmers have received no money, and 46,000 in Ukraine are farmers. They really need this money. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u45	Financing arrangements are not developed by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has a largely technical function. When there's an approved budget, when the Cabinet of Ministers approves the order, and the changes to the law into the budget, and that's right, you've approved the decision, it's up to the Cabinet of Ministers to decide. There is a chief budget manager who has to make an appropriate decision. As far as funding is concerned. Yesterday, the Cabinet of Ministers briefed the President of Ukraine. We are fully implementing the January-May funding plan. The truth isn't over yet, we'll do 100 percent of the funding plan. The only place where there's a malfunction is where there's no order. That is, where there is no order in which costs will be incurred. Because we don't have the right to just finance. There must be clear transparent mechanisms. And by the way, the question of Jaroslav Kendzior is that there's a problem here. We still haven't been able to fully review the order, because there are many of them now, so that the order provides a transparent and efficient funding procedure so that the cost goes directly to the consumer. I could say, for example, in some agrarian order. We've changed things with, for example, subsidies coming directly to the producer or to the peasants who gave up the products. As far as debt is concerned. Such a problem exists and will have to return to them. But this has to be the effort, first of all, of all budgets. And secondly, we have a very difficult budget this year. A budget to take the first steps in solving many problems. But with one budget, we can't solve these problems. I can only inform you that it has now been five months since, at the beginning of the year, we will execute a five-month budget plan, and so we will carry out the funding of all the statutory expenditures. The only thing is a request to colleagues, to national MPs, we don't have the income of the budget evenly. And you know that in the first half of the year, budget revenues are always lower. And given the problems of the first quarter that we have, this year the portion of the first quarter of revenue is going to be much smaller. So much of the spending financing, as it has traditionally always been, is passed on to the second half of the year. This has always been the case, because in the second half of the year, the budget income is much higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u46	Victor Mikhailovich, please, I have a question. If I'm not mistaken, you're talking about 32 billion budget deficits. What does it consist of?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u47	It was mostly the pension fund's problems, mostly. Over 20 billion dollars was the problem of Ukrainian pensioners. So I'll remind you once again that the budget that was in effect on January 1st didn't even provide for the payment of even 284 dollars of pension. You know that a new law has already been passed, under which the minimum pension was 332 bracelets. Besides, you and I had no right to go beyond the problem that all Ukrainian pensioners received the same pension. And thanks to the changes to the budget that we've adopted, today we're paying 332 bracelets minimum and starting, taking the first step towards the differentiation of pensions. Today, there has been a sharp decline in the number of pensioners receiving the same pension. We've been paying our pension for two months now, we're completely closing the pension fund's needs, pension payments. At the beginning of June, we, again, fully provide for the need for a pension fund. By the way, in June, we're still ending the problem of paying debts to Ukrainian pensioners for March of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The first deputy head of the Committee on Budgets, Ludmila Pavelna Suprun, has the report. 15 on the report, 15 on the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! In reviewing the Government's report on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2004 and the conclusions of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the State Budget, the Committee on Budget Issues points to the following: we see how this issue is being considered today. As a result, this situation has taken place. When the government that came comes reports on a budget that this government doesn't execute, it actually loses interest and loses the responsibility of any executive body for its activities. The legislative authority must control the executive authority. But how can we do so? Only one way is to make changes to legislation, so that each government that for one reason or another resigns in a mandatory manner within two weeks of such an event will report on its work. Then it will be clear how the new government will start its work and then there will be 450 deputies in this room, and not only one minister of finance will be sitting in the government's bed, but the whole government in general. I can say that the Committee on Budget Affairs views the report of the Government as the first step in preparing for the adoption of the new Law. We need to learn all the flaws, all the thresholds that are in legislation. With a view to preventing violations of legislation by the government in the following year. I can say that the assessment of the relevant indicators, Victor Mikhailovich, is always, in some ways, always with such political load. Because when one says that the glass is full and the other says that it is half empty, it means only one thing that half the water is poured in the glass. And when you talk about today's increase in debt, it's about Ukraine's external debt, and it's gone up by one and a half billion, it doesn't matter to us as budgeters, it doesn't matter to economists. Because, in fact, debt growth is estimated only in one measure, relative to GDP. And I can say that it was precisely in 2004 that this increase took place nominally, but in fact there was a reduction in debt from 25 per cent in external liabilities to 19.7. So it's a completely different painting. The rate of growth of most economic, social development indicators has exceeded that of previous years and the projected level of indicators taken into account in the formation of the State budget, but I can say that the 2004 achievement completely coincided with those budgeted by the Budget Committee in almost 105 million dollars. And that means that governments tend to be interested in underestimating the income part of the budget, so that you can then use the indicators of this budget and the surpluses for these needs that set them up, which actually happened in 2004. So we propose to improve the method of developing predictive macroeconomic indicators for all taxes and congregations without exception. With regard to the evaluation of budget implementation. I'm going to try very briefly to give basic estimates of income, expenditure, surplus, deficit, external debt and local budgets. Local budget revenues were made at 107.9 percent. Is that the final indicator? I was told that five billion of the plans had not been received. So in pronunciations, if the government were actually better at doing its job, the budget overruns would be different. And we'd have an extra five billion dollars. And by the way, we have to take into account that Imperfect is the method of calculating the income from privatization that came into the State Budget plus 4.2 to plan and were also used for other purposes. And we realize that this certainly was primarily about the electoral process. At the same time, the failure of 33 planned sources of income took place primarily because of inadequate administration and control over tax administration and some payments to the State budget by central executive authorities. The state-of-the-art state budget was adversely affected by the late development and approval of the Kabmin order for individual payments to the State budget. Therefore, the Committee on Budget Issues proposes that, in implementing the next law in 2006, we provide for a legal norm, not just a wish that all legislation to implement the State Budget Act be approved by the government within 30 days. If they're not approved within 30 days, that'll be the basis for demanding the resignation of any government. This should be the legal norm for the approval of such arrangements in the Code of Budgets. Of course, we also suffered the corresponding loss of revenue from the fact that the ineffective mechanism of government property management was ineffectively used by natural resources. In this regard, new systems of government administration and control by the legislative authority should be put in place. In fact, there is still a problem of unresolved malnutrition. As a result, a huge number of enterprises, especially energy companies, are now blocked and unable to make investments, cannot carry out their activities. And that might be a reason for someone to argue that the tariffs on electricity, gas, and other utility bills have been raised. It is important to note that we feel it is necessary to improve the collection of the wetlands in order to see objectively what the situation is in the economy. As for the return of credit to the State budget, it should be noted that the government has ineffectively controlled the return of such loans. And we recommend that effective measures be taken to ensure that these loans, which have been granted under the Government’s guarantees, are returned. In addition, regular monitoring and monitoring of the activities of the entities that have received such credit. Under other conditions, as soon as the payment period for these loans occurs, there is a state mechanism to ensure that payments are made under foreign creditors, and in fact the State budget is spending money instead of doing so by the appropriate institution that has borrowed the funds. As for government debt and budget deficits. Once again, I emphasize Victor Mikhailovich, I ask you not to interfere, if possible, with the Committee's report to the Minister of Finance, if possible. Victor Mikhailovich, I'm just going to the Ministry of Finance right now, if you could just listen to the committee report, because it's important. So once again, I'm saying that there's been a reduction in the marginal size of government debt, from the 25th, Victor Mikhailovich, to 19.6 percent, not its increase, because we need to see analysis, not just mechanics in the growth of payments. By the way, it's about pay. The salary, the share of the principal's expenses, has decreased, but it doesn't matter to you or to us, because it's not the basis for analysis. The basis for analysis is a real increase in actual wage levels. And if the salary goes up three times, or twice, or one and a half times the previous year, but the share of it in the principal's expenses goes down, that's what's the main thing for us, and that's what we need to evaluate as a positive, not a negative. The State budget has been funded by 10.2 billion, exceeding the planned indicators, virtually due to the arrival of additional funds from privatization. What is done with privatization that year, and what can be done about it? Victor Mikhailovich, I can draw your attention to the fact that if the privatization programme is not approved, if the government does not examine in detail the expenditures incurred by the previous government in 2004, by the end of the year, there will be a situation that the differences between the previous government and today we will not even find that 10 differences, as in the famous children's game, or even one. So please, I ask you to submit a list of privatization objects to the Supreme Council for approval, because last year there was an unscheduled selection of objects. And this situation does not actually give us the opportunity to actually assess the volume of budgetary revenue from privatization. And I want to draw your attention to the following, Victor Mikhailovich, that this year, in the budget resolution you're proposing, there's a systemic error: you want to channel the income from privatization, just compare it to the sources of external debt financing. That means we're going to start paying off the money we make from privatization to repay the debts of previous periods. We just need to do one thing — serve the holding company on time and settle it gradually. But when we borrow three percent of the money and that three percent for us is a little bit of a budget load. So we have to spend the privatization money on economic development, because we're going to get 25 percent of the revenue and 35 percent of the redistributed funds into the state budget. This is the source of our budget, this is the element for raising the level of economic growth. It should be noted that during the past year, significant funds have been accumulated in Treasury accounts, and in certain periods of time, honourable colleagues, I can say that in the accounts of a single Treasury, 30 percent of the money that worked in the economy was blocked in one institution's accounts up to 18 billion. What did that mean? This meant that the banking system was blocked, that it actually had no impulses for further development. I mean, we're also paying attention to today's government for it to be. In order for him and the National Bank to develop an effective arrangement for the use of temporarily free balances of budgetary resources and, if necessary, we will make appropriate proposals for the legislative regulation of this budget. As for the state budget expenditure, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the expenditure was also overrun. But to this, virtually, the Supreme Council did not have any bearing. It is proposed that a strict standard be established: As a result of the excess of income over expenditure, the amount of the surplus in the following year must be redistributed, not as it is now. The previous government left a budget coming to the new government of 5 billion dollars, that's what the minister of finance was talking about, of which 1 billion 400 million are the funds that are coming to the General Fund of the State Budget. In fact, it happened because of what the previous government, I would call it, gave the bribe to the next one, he didn't actually fund the expenses that are now considered fiscal debt. And Valentino Konstantinovich Simonenko, I think this will confirm it, in front of many businesses and institutions that did the work but didn't get paid. This also happened with agricultural enterprises, Viktor Mikhailovich, who actually made the necessary expenses but did not receive State compensation. And we insist that this mechanism should be taken into account and that all businesses that have done the work that they had the right to pay in the previous year receive the necessary payments directly from the budget this year. One of the reasons for the outcome of this situation should also be this, which is why this situation has arisen, is to refer to the question of the State Budget's enrollment. By the way, you're repeating, Victor Mikhailovich, the mistake of the previous government, you're moving all the expenses to 4 blocks, so you're stopping both the development of the economy and the development of enterprises and the planning of their activities. Therefore, we pay attention to the seasonality of the work. For the purpose of the State Road Fund, 2 billion dollars in December, they won't use them, it'll cause businesses to start adjusting documents at the end of the reporting period, they're starting to go into violation. You don't have to produce that position of the enterprises and the budgetary institutions in general. Let's make sure that our activities and planning go to a scientifically sound level. Ukraine’s economy already has sufficient experience to avoid such basic mistakes. We think that if you don't do this during the budget period, if you don't do this in the budget resolution, we're going to have to fully reflect this as our legislative position when we change the budget code. I must say that a huge number of budget assignments took place among the principals. We got about 172 calls to the committee, which means no one's planning on human spending. It seems to me that in recent times, we have planned funds from the principals just to get the principals to come up with programs to redistribute them. And we believe, and this is confirmed by the Court of Auditors, that the efficient use of State Budget funds, local budgets, should be a real criterion for assessing government activities. Besides, the government's real assessment will always be given by the economy and the citizens who feel everything in their pockets. I have to say, the committee is offering a few words about local budgets. We believe that local budgets were the most affected by the 2004 budget. Because the loans from the treasury account have started to be taken, think about this figure and in this data, since July 2004. In such large, powerful areas as Zaporizka, Kharkivska, Odessa, actually had to cut the budget completely. And they, like taxpayers and the most profitable areas, actually lost the ability to operate on investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u50	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u51	The committee reviewed all these proposals, reviewed all the material of the government activity report, proposed its draft decision. It's in your hands, and we're proposing, on the basis of the outcome of the review, to take it to your knowledge, but to make all the legislative proposals that need to be accepted immediately with a view to correcting the shortcomings and ensuring the effective use of the State budget taxes, which are based on tax and non-tax revenues, and are, in fact, the money of citizens and businesses that we receive into the budget and should be used for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, the question, Ludmila Pavlovno, questions. You still have 15 minutes in the rostrum. Please sign up. Yes, please point to the board. 15 minutes. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u53	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, what positions in budgetary policy have proved to be wrong, and from what political powers have they come out? What parliamentary political element lobbying its interests for years hinders the withdrawal of the Ukrainian economy from the pits and contributes to the theft of state goods?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u54	It was practically a mistake to calculate the revenue of the State budget. And I've already answered that in my report. The committee's calculations are different from actual plans, from actual incomes to government budgets of 150 million. They're different from the government's supply of 5.5 billion, so I'm stressing again. The committee’s calculations were objective. As far as political power is concerned, which is responsible for the budget. The government that executed this budget is responsible for the budget. And once again, I emphasize that we need to make changes to the law, that the government that resigns on any condition, whether the term of office of the President ends, or is being postponed by the Supreme Council should report and tell us what it ends this year. I could say that there were two things that happened: against the backdrop of the overall growth of the economy, because only because of the growth of the gross domestic product could we estimate real, objectively these things, there were a huge number of flaws and violations that we didn't contribute to because we could have a much better result.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u55	Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u56	May I present Masenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u57	Alexander Masenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Ludmila Pavlovno, there's more to Pinzenik, but he's gone somewhere, he's sitting, he's not. The point is that he is considered the father of the introduction of subsidies in Ukraine, I would like to clarify that. That must be true of you when you meet with the voters. A more humiliating situation when a person goes to make these subsidies may be difficult to come up with. Could you, like the first deputy head of the committee, and Victor Mikhailovich he came, let him listen, to simplify this procedure somehow, to receive subsidies, because it's so humiliating that he can't accept it anymore. And another question is unemployment assistance. Say it's normal or it's not normal for the budget. It might be better to make jobs, and let people work than to spend.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u59	You have asked an extremely relevant question. As far as subsidies are concerned. Maybe today we're spending about 3 billion dollars on subsidies. That's a lot of money. And you have to understand that the subsidy goes a little bit to each person from, let's say, 36 to 150 bracelets essentially. Clearly, everyone goes and takes help to get that money. Why does this happen, as you correctly noted, a demeaning procedure? It needs to be done automatically. There is already a system of accounting, and there is a system of computers. All government authorities have built 25 parallel computer networks without exception: The Pension Fund, the Accident Insurance Fund, the Unemployment Fund and so on, I won't count. One thing to do is to create the only territorial centers where all of these social benefits will be collected, and then less money will be spent. Then a person who has the right to a subsidy and who has an open account, automatically providing help, should not be a citizen, but should submit the relevant organs and then automatically count the sum, because this is the only way to organize this system and how to actually set up control. Then there will be no false evidence of subsidies. Then there will be no unemployment benefits that have already become a system of income for those with multiple jobs. And dozens of people and voters, I think you and I are talking about today trying to get to the farmer, for example, to get help that he has 960 dollars in his salary. Then he gets into the employment fund and next year he gets this money. So you don't have to turn a trust fund to support a citizen who's lost his job into a real cow for those who use the imperfections of legislation. That's why I think. That the government would be in principle in solving this problem. By not allowing the funds of the unemployment fund to be embezzled and actually creating jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u60	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u61	Ludmila Pavlovna, on behalf of local budgets, small local budgets in Zaporozhye region, I think Ukraine as a whole, personally and the Committee, thanks you for insisting on the idea of gasification of budgetary institutions. By doing so, the social budget economy will allow millions of farmers to be gassed. But these are budgetary institutions, and how long will the budget go back to the commercial sectors of the economy? For example, road construction, for example, is the same energy that I absolutely support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Costinovich, I can tell you that the huge problem with gasification is not that we lack the funds, that we don't understand what's going to happen next? The absence of a public policy on gasification and fuel, energy supply is a pressing problem of the economic strategy that was approved by the government in 1994 here in the Supreme Council Hall, has virtually lost its relevance. That's why we have to deal with you and the government and, let's say, see that we have to gass the countryside. The government's position is that it doesn't have to be done because it's a huge spending, it's a dependence on foreign companies that supply gas because there's little gas in Ukraine. And there's no economic strategy here. We can only solve this problem one way if we understand how we move in this maze. You know, this year the budget committee has proposed to channel 2 percent of total gas sales, including in rural areas. According to our calculations, this sum will be 420 million if the congregation is finally established after half a year. If it had been implemented since the beginning of the year, it would have been 840 million. Why did we pursue such a goal? NAC Naftogaz is a structure that is responsible for gasification, which has all the main gas pipelines and drains and main gas pipelines in use, actually targets the gasification of the cost as it deems necessary, according to its own judgment, it wants to, and it wants to, it will not. It should still be under the control of state executives and become an integral part of state policy in the area of human security. So in my opinion, the government needs to get back to the economic strategy in the near future so that we know that for three years, five years, ten years, we will have gas in the rural area and we will have the right calculations on the economic basis of these expenses. As far as road construction and energy is concerned, well, road construction is an obligation of the state, we can't help but finance it, but the language goes that we need to reform this system, we need to finance road construction, we need to finance road construction, we need to keep it secure, but we don't have to build roads, because it's not our problem. As far as energy is concerned, if I started to answer your question, we would take all the time for the answer. I think that for energy finance will be effective when every bracelet that is invested in the energy budget will increase the efficiency of the economy rather than pay off someone's income indirectly through the energy system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u63	Please, Vladimir Masterskin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u64	Vladimir Mystrishkin, Party of the People's Party of Lithuania Ludmila Pavlovno, please tell me when we can detail the budget in the end. I saw the budget of the United States, where a few dozen volumes, where literally every dollar can be written. And we see, the road fund today is again three billion dollars in one tape. Accordingly, today we have a report on just this one tape. What roads are built? What is done at this cost? So the budget detail in your view? And I'm handing the rest of my time to Calinchuk. Pass the word to Kalinchuk, deputy of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u65	Please, Singer. Turn off the microphone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u66	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to my colleague Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u67	Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Humane Paully, I very much agree with you that you say that another government should report, and that today is a very difficult situation, that we should do it every time, because not only do we draw conclusions, but we have to consider mistakes to prevent them from happening in the past. But don't you think if we work harder on the committee? So maybe the committee should take this to its meeting not only after the year ended and it came six months ago, and we've come to conclusions, but we've done this at a meeting of the Supreme Council, for example, quarterly, to draw up how this is done, for example, this budget for this year. And that's why we'd already have some indicators, and we could give a hint to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u69	I can totally agree with your suggestion that since we have quarterly budget reports, we could also monitor the government's work. This is completely objective. We have a different order. You know, we have days of government where we only hear small questions. As a committee, we will certainly consider your proposal and initiate to provide at least a brief explanation of how the Cabinet of Ministers is doing with regard to the implementation of the State Budget Act. Of course, any government should receive not only an economic evaluation of the activity, but also a political one, because that is exactly what the Supreme Council is doing to give an economic and political assessment of the government's activities. And I didn't answer the question asked by Master Vladimir Jakovic. I can say that we see, Victor Mikhailovich, for the next year, the implementation of such a proposal as cost detail is extremely relevant. And we're going to suggest that we go through European countries that, when the budget is approved, have a cost detail of up to 100,000. That's what I'm talking about. Since we have a slightly different economy, I think we can stop at a figure of up to 100,000. Now, that's not going to bother anyone, you have these calculations before the budget is formed, because you're giving us a detailed budget statement, and we're definitely going to offer it to the MPs. I think it will be objective to increase control over the use of State budget funds and increase the efficiency of such work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u70	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk. We do not have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u71	Eugene Kirilchuk, militia of the Yulia Tymoshenko block, the "Fatherland" party. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, you may not have been able to say that it was decided on the Committee of Budgets that the massive abuses that were made after the illegal use of budget funds, laundering, theft and so forth were handed over to the investigating bodies to bring the guilty to justice. And secondly, Ludmila Pavlovno. We have two funds, and the second fund is special. They're the same budget costs, but our line is always cutting them down, and somehow they're not shrinking, they're increasing. How do you feel about your position on the next budget period?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u72	Dear Eugene Ivanovich, I can say that in our decision that we have prepared with you on the committee, it is precisely reflected in the commission of the Accountant's salary to deliver all the materials that were found at the time. which relate to abuses in the implementation of the State Budget Act 2004. And that's the decision we have here, in the determination. In addition, I have complemented this decision with what we consider necessary to introduce the political responsibility of the government for the implementation of the budget. That is, in the case of failure to comply with the law, the government should resign, at least the Supreme Council could ask such a question. As far as the General and Special Fund are concerned, in my opinion, and you know that we've been working with you on the committee since 1998, and it's the committee that has put the State Budget in place for the General and Special Fund. This allows us to account for funds that, Eugene Ivanovich, in fact, are not the revenue of the State Budget. They are incomes from the activities of budgetary institutions. But this practice is being implemented to control the activities of budgetary institutions, and so we can't talk to you about reducing this Special Fund or reducing the number of general fund managers. We need to talk about all the revenue of state-owned enterprises that have to be accounted for in Treasury and into a special fund. Even though we're trying to get a huge amount of control over all the funds to be spent, we're still seeing, in some cases, the fact that enterprises don't transfer their accounts to the Treasury. This enables them to use the funds uncontrolledly. We agreed that we didn't take that money away, we agreed that, well, let's say we didn't remove the money from the higher education institutions, they stayed entirely on funding these institutions. But there must be control over their use, because any government institution or budgetary institution should work not as a commercial institution and direct them to some profitable commercial activity, but should use it for the purpose for which it was created. With regard to another issue, the responsibility of officials for failure to carry out the budget, this was precisely the case with the APK, with the availability of the budget. In my opinion, this responsibility needs to be transferred to a criminal responsibility, not just administrative responsibility, because if a government official who has to grant funding when all documents are available does not do so, it actually blocks the economy, it hurts the state. And such a responsibility should be criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u73	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u74	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! Two problems are planned by the Budget Committee along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to improve the budget code. In a cut, changes in the formula method of calculating compensation grants for areas. In my district, one district is completely mountainous, two parts are partially mountainous, they are already suffering from budget shortfalls and the budget institutions will actually be funded from the State Budget by about August of the month. What should we do next? Therefore, it is obvious that this formal method should be improved to allow such areas to receive normal compensation grants. The other one. We know how the adventurous method was used to distribute subsidies involuntaryly last year. Whether this analysis will be translated, let's say my district didn't get anything last year. And whether or not they will be punished for this blasphemy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u75	Dear Mr. George! You asked a wonderful professional question about the formula. It may be said that the committee does not plan the formulas, they are based on a methodology that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And we're trying on the committee to make proposals for these formulas to be improved. We have introduced the only special form of temporary loans, short-term loans or medium-term loans, with the State Budget supporting this budget if there is not enough money. This is such a precaution. But you're right, absolutely, he's not perfect. A formal calculation introduced in 2000 in a government like today has virtually run out. And we think his change is ripe. And this can only be done jointly by the Cabinet of Ministers and directly by the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council. As far as subsidies are concerned. In my opinion, the procedure that we have just introduced is also humiliating for local self - government. Because if money is received by the local budget in the form of subsidies, he has the right to make a decision at his own meeting, his appropriate advice on where to direct the money. We can make recommendations, we can, like the MPs who represent these territories, let's say, make our proposals, but this is actually the authorization of the local budgets. So we suggest that at least 10 percent of the local budgets remained for investment development next year. And as a committee, we do it through. The calculation, believe me, is extremely simple. But in fact, it will help to support local self-government, and it will show that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the deputies of the Supreme Council are not working to keep local budgets behind their throats and then put their lives on the line, but instead we are working on the development of local self-governance bodies, and they are doing their job. As for the subsidies that were distributed in that year. You know the committee was against the volunteer approach. And we've offered a fair distribution per capita according to the amount of money that's being allocated from the State Budget, because that's in line with the Budget Code. Sadly, this decision was adopted. She disagreed with the budget committee. It has distorted real subsidies and the real priority of the state in different regions. This year, we wrote in a formula that envisions a per capita distribution, but unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers has not yet submitted order in four of our requests, more faithfully, orderly, we have considered it before yesterday, but it completely distorts the text of the Budget Act. It's written depending on what social economic development is in the regions. It doesn't fit the normative base, it doesn't fit the law. So I can inform all the National Deputies that, next week, we will be on the Budget Committee, together with the Ministry of Economics, to consider all proposals made by the deputies that came from the distribution of funds in the subsidy and to determine the principle that the Budget Act provides for the allocation of funds. So that no later than next week, we can complete this proposal and give the Cabinet of Ministers to approve the list of items to finance these subsidies to local self - government authorities by transferring funds to local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u77	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u78	Correspondence to the head of the Court of Auditors, Valentina Konstantinovich Simonnka, please be 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable members of the Government! The conclusions of the College of the Court of Auditors following the implementation by the Government of the State budget of Ukraine for 2004 are presented to the Supreme Council. They are a synthesis document of the ongoing monitoring and expertise conducted by the Court of Auditors in the first quarter, the first half of the year and the nine months of the year. In answer to your question, Ludmila Pavlovna, why is it said that, after the resignation of the Government, we are considering these issues, we should probably comply with the rules of the Budget Code and consider all the adjustments made by the Court of Auditors in the implementation of the budget. This is the outcome of the 9-month budget implementation. They were distributed to the Committee on Budgets and handed over to each member. And believe me, the outcome document is much softer than the one we gave in nine months, and then in October it was possible to take all the measures that would not lead to some of the unpleasant things that we are now boasting about in 2005. The main shortfall in budget implementation was the lack of a clearly defined budget strategy. Many decisions were taken spontaneously by the Government, in the fire order and were generally inconsistent with the spirit and letter of the State Budget Act and the Budget Resolution. The Government, in charge of implementing the 2004 budget, has history. That is why the main positive factor in today's debate is that the Supreme Council, the Government has the opportunity to critically understand the shortcomings identified, correct them during the implementation of this year's budget. It is particularly important to prevent them from being allowed in the drafting of the 2006 State Budget. It's a possibility. Not just the materials, but all the calculations, the expert calculations are distributed to you and each Committee. In our view, the main issue of the budget should be the main issues of budgetary policy: the first, in recent years, the Government has ignored, in fact, the results and projections of economic development. The State budget was established on the basis of the assumption of slow economic growth. This has led to a reduction in the amount of planning to pay in the income budget, making the income part demeaningly small, limiting opportunities to address existing social problems. But it created additional levels of freedom for the Government to address non-budgeted issues and to spend money at its discretion. The income portion of the approved State budget was significantly understated last year, and the reserved amounts were quite high. The results of budget implementation already in the first quarter of last year fully confirmed the conclusion of the Court of Auditors on this issue. As a result, the Gosbudget general fund received more than 1 billion bracelets. The proceeds of privatization were almost three times higher. In June last year, the Government was forced to propose changes to the State budget in the Supreme Council, increasing the revenue, as you remember, by 4.5 billion dollars of bracelets and by 3 per cent of privatization. As you've learned today, these numbers have even been overrun. Is that good or bad? This is certainly not good because such destructive approaches are used in the formulation and formulation of the 2005 budget. Which was the main reason for the adjustment and that these adjustments will not be made again this year, will be done this year, and this will be the year. I hope that such a downward game will remain in the past, and the Government will develop a draft budget for 2006, based on objective, realistic, calculated indicators. Second, with sufficient financial resources available in the country annually, the budget is underperforming, resulting in significant borrowing. In our view, the main problem in addressing this issue is tax administration. Last year alone, there were 400 different types of benefits that almost every 50 thousand taxpayers received. You know, the budget didn't get $12.5 billion in bracelets. This year, the majority would have abolished these benefits. But there's no higher tax rates. They're not humiliated. Significant budget resources are also lost as a result. The work of fiscal bodies. Surprisingly, the fact is that the main underprivileged are public enterprises. Last year, the shortfall was about nine billion payments. This is because, during the year, the tax authorities have written off and deferred payments for another six billion dollars. I recall that article 74 of the State Budget Act 2004 prohibited such acts. Yet, these six billion were written off. In fact, this year, the same trend continues in the implementation of the 2005 budget. Under the circumstances of this generosity of the taxpayers, the income portion of the budget has been realized and exceeded only through the collection of 3.5 billion grevens in 2005 payments and revenues from the sale of public property. Third. The implementation of the 2004 budget was an apophesis of the manual management of public funds. You're on your own. In the execution of the State budget, as in previous years, the main burden on the expenditure part of the budget was at the end of the year. In October-December, the Chief Budget Distributer. An amount of 22 billion bracelets or 36 per cent of an annual amount. Budget allocation by the main distributor at the end of the year and as a means of timely and underutilization was the reason for the State budget to have about one billion sums of balances in their accounts. 13 per cent showed that no one had been able to use this money since they arrived on December 25-26, and again they had been budgeted. Practice. At the end of the financial year, it was impossible to obtain the necessary goods, materials and services in a timely manner and led to an increase in receivables of 600 million United States dollars. Grieve. At the beginning of the year, it amounted to 1.4 billion. Greven, and the accounts payable amounted to one billion. The expenditure for the 2004 extension has been artificially constrained, and substantial funds have been immaterially accumulated in the Government's accounts. For example, in the last nine months alone, no budget expenditure totalling 3.6 billion had been incurred. Grieve. At the same time, the balances in the treasury accounts for the first October amounted to 9.5 billion. Grieve. This has created tension in the work and budget institutions and has caused a fair complaint. The Court of Auditors, I appeal to the people's deputies again, talked about this both after six months and after nine months. Everyone moaned without funds. However, our materials, our calculations, which have not been refuted by anyone, have been without any movement. In fact, funding for approved amounts began only from October. In December, however, the process had become massive, simply a distribution of funds. But the time was lost and the money had to be spent with great difficulty. The process continued until 15 January, inclusive of the so-called final turnover. This is with the end of the budget year on 31 December. Everyone knows that. I will no longer speak, but I will not talk about it in particular, but the Government's decision to increase pension payments was a particularly clear example of budget unpredictability, but politically understandable. Both the State budget and the Pension Fund budget were balanced by a single pen. Fourth. This is where they asked about the special fund. That's why I'm going to stand on it separately. The existing legal field allows managers to use the special fund within actual income, including with high indicators. Under this right, fund managers have significantly increased the indicators approved by the Supreme Council. Thus, the establishment of a special fund, in fact, was carried out outside the control of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, which is neither much nor little about 5 billion bracelets that were paid to the managers of the enterprises that form the special fund. I find it unwarranted to increase the share of State-wide taxes and income taxes of the special fund. If the special fund was 5.6 per cent of the total budget in 2000, it is now around 37 per cent in the 2004 budget and 38 per cent in the 2005 budget. Unreal planning and resources in the management of funds have been found in each of the audited budget institutions from the lower to the higher, which spend the special fund and demonstrate the systemality and prudence of such violations, beginning with the formation and use of budgetary resources. Fifth. There is a concept of policy continuity in public administration. In our particular case, this continuity from one Government to another is limited to shortcomings. But we wanted to, and that requires life, so that the shortcomings of politics remain in the past. The efficiency of budgetary policy consists of a balanced education in the use of public resources, predictability, transparency, clarity and specificity of action. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government must, in our view, address the following problem: it is necessary to finally establish clear rules of interaction between payers and the State, by improving tax legislation and by failing to comply, I would like to repeat this word, every year in the process of adopting the budget, all the legislative field that disorients, as budgetary organizations and especially those who operate a particular business. This is particularly the case with regard to the simplification of legislation, the expansion of the tax base, the revision of tax rates and benefits and the finalization of the value added tax. There is a fundamental need to change the functioning of fiscal bodies. It's been declared for three months now, but it's not going to go any better on the yotta. A policy on privatization of public property requires clarity. In fact, we are already at the finish of the first half of the year, respected colleagues. When the Government remembers the budget line, which provides for not much, not a little, but about 7 billion dollars from privatization, then everything that goes on in our lives today begins to be put into question by some privatized objects. The Government has made a concerted commitment to social issues, including an increase in minimum wage since 1 April of this year. When will the question be resolved? On 1 April, we must introduce a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers 290 bracelets a minimum wage, recalculate all baselines. the derivatives of this stuff. But there is no solution - there is no action yet. What about compensation for the savings of citizens? This year's work is essentially still under way. In the budget, I'll remind you, 6 billion bracelets are laid. But there is already a promise and a statement by the highest-ranking people in our country that this sum will already be 10 billion in 2006. But let's solve question six. Today is over. Six billion. Today, almost the end of May. It is disturbing that some of the management decisions of the new Government show nostalgia in the “manual management” of economic processes. First of all, this is the problem of prices and tariffs. Yesterday it was meat products, today it was petroleum products, and, believe me, it was utilities. Such issues must be addressed in a timely manner, with deep economic development at the outset. Elaboration and balanced decision within the framework of a strategy approved by the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, there is no strategy. Abrasive methods don't work here. I have everything, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Ten minutes, Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u81	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine" faction of Viktor Yushchenka. Dear Valentina Konstantinovich! I want to thank you warmly for your objective and completely legitimate conclusions. Each of the national deputies is obliged to read and act in line with the responsibilities of the Ukrainian national deputy. I'm also talking about a special fund that you've exactly defined the contours and the apopheus of manual control and the same kind of hospitality. Don't you think, just as we are national deputies, so our voters should know about the results of the implementation and budgets and the misuse of budgets, and this is indeed the case. In order for people to realize that in 100 days, the new authorities can't get rid of this terrible inertia machine that's running and moving so far. Do you not think that this would be, by the way, not to call Mr. Piscoon to say that it is objective? Is this not evidence to protect the interests of the entire nation? Don't you think there's more to it, more public.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u82	I am very grateful for this question, because one of the forms of work and tools of the Court of Auditors, there is transparency in all the chambers of account in all the countries of the world. Because the money that the Government spends with or without permission from the Supreme Council is money from specific people, money from taxpayers. Therefore, the concept of transparency, the notion of the awareness of taxpayers, is the first alpha and the omega of any democracy. Unfortunately, this process is not about breaking up, but about beyond human understanding. Who should be the organizer of this process. In my opinion, the committees of the Supreme Council. And what needs to be gathered and informed by reason of its ability is informed. But you know, we inform people, we have these booklets, as I say, the best sellers don't bathe, I have them, we distribute them, we hand-print them, we don't hand-print them, we print about 800 copies. And on demand, a thousand more. Unfortunately, to put it in this book, it will not go back to the book, but to the conclusion, even in our Voice of Ukraine, we are told, give the quota, give the money, even the Voice of Ukraine. That's the question. People need to be informed if we are talking about not, as we say, the flashes of democracy, the real democracy, but the real democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u83	Michael Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u84	I'd like to give Catherine a word with Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u85	Please, it's Samuel Catherine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u86	Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, I'm here, don't mind the Hare. I agree with the previous speaker that the mahovik continues to work, collects turnover and that there has been no change in the functioning of the State. But I'll just give you an example. 70 million to overcome homelessness and another 100 million to allocate from the Reserve, where are they going? They're going to build houses for the homeless. Excuse me, please. And who will do the preventive work? But I have a different question. Valentin Konstantinovich, dear, we all respect you so much, but we want to know. How many of your inspections have been initiated in criminal cases? How many persons have been punished for violating budgetary discipline? And we read in your papers that that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u87	Well, first of all, over the last three months, over the last four months, I may not be proud, it's not a matter of pride, it's to say that there's been some 43 criminal cases, it's more than the last four years. This is the last four months. That's one question. But, dear Ekaterina Semenovna, it is not a matter of punishment. You see, conscience is the best. What's more, we're operating on government money, taxpayers' money. We need to prevent this whole thing. And we're in such a vicious circle all the time today. What does it mean to reduce the income part of the budget? This means that the same children, the most disabled, are destitute. And we're constantly underestimating 4 to 6 billion dollars of greaves, and we're underestimating the income portion of the budget. What does the use of budget funds mean today? It means to cut off the program that has already been approved and transfer it to a completely unknown direction. The supervisory functions of the Supreme Council are to use the vast analytical expertise provided by the Court of Auditors to the Supreme Council. Because it doesn't depend on who's there or Janukovic or Timoshenko's there. She's just telling the truth because our system is good luck and really better. That's why we tell everyone the truth, only the truth. Well, take action. Yeah, I'm talking today. Today, law enforcement authorities have acquired thousands of turnovers. I'm saying 43 criminal cases. I don't even get that much in Russia all year, but we do in four months. But this is a small part of the response to the results of the Court of Auditors. There is a mass of legislative problems. Mass of problems in implementing the Budget Code. If we were to adopt the budget clearly, could we be talking about the revaluation of the bracelet? Never in my life. Because there are mechanisms that are legislatively implemented that prevent one person from doing so. And we're like, we're stuck on the bench with what the people have given us in the form of laws and rights to act, and now we're getting angry at each other and tearing the shirts on our chests, that's the job, that's the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u88	Leonid Isaiah, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u89	Dear Valentin Constantinovich, I wanted to ask the Minister this question, but he's not here right now, he's got a lot of stasis. No, Victor Mikhailovich showed up, thank you. He didn't have time to answer. To be honest, the minister's report, softly speaking, biased. This base, which will be convenient for the implementation report already in 2005, is clearly provided. Well, you can't really do that. That's why the reports and the Suprun and yours look obvious. I have a question like this: with the savings of the citizens, the Minister has not had enough time to raise the issue, and interest would be useful to say an absolute figure. Why am I asking that question? Because they think that saving is either a criminal structure that saves, you know, or, if less, life gets worse. So that's your opinion: or that's an improvement, that's about as good as a third year. Is that better or is that better?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u90	Maybe I don't get it, but saving people's lives is better? What's with the criminal structures? I don't, well, I don't think it's got anything, it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u91	Please, Vladimir Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u92	Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, I know that the issue of amendments to the bill on the account room is currently under consideration. There are problems that must be solved by this Law. Today, if I'm not mistaken, 95th Amendment to the Constitution asks the question of budgeting. It's not the only structure that checks this out today. The second problem is we're talking about local budgets, but the laws we're adopting in the Supreme Council are the ones we're stealing the local budget. An example is the use of land, apartments, and so on and so forth. Where will this local budget be filled? This has led to the closure of the school’s 120 - to - 130 - year - old communities in Zitomirsk. And the last question. What can you do to make these brochures, as you say, for the rest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u93	I can answer your question. This is primarily article 98 of the Constitution and is part of a package of changes to the Constitution that have been adopted in the system or package of political reforms. I hope it all comes to a logical conclusion. Or since September 1st, which is little hope, but since January 1st, we will have precisely been activated, it is said that we will have expanded powers. It's being prepared today, we've already prepared a new bill on the Court of Auditors. But if you've noticed, we're talking a lot about the income part of the budget because we don't have control rights, but we have the right to analyse it, and we're analyzing it clearly enough. But you are quite right about the need to control today and, above all, to allow the tax administration. I just called today the figure that last year, without any right, was written off by taxpayers for six billion bracelets. It's been the first quarter. Let's open a first-quarter summary. Our glorious government, which yet. It even worked, it's already written 3.5 billion bracelets in the first quarter. And here, look, why punish? You have to warn, tell, show if there's anything wrong with it being fixed. But we can analyze today, and I'm telling you this number, 3.5 billion, and to check who they wrote down, we're already, as it's said, no matter how much we can't. Because it's not an analysis anymore, it's a test. Of course, this function must be. It will help to work, and the Committee on Budgets will help to work and focus on budget implementation. With regard to the last question of local councils. Then I can tell you. I've worked on local councils for a long time as city manager and district manager. We have always had our own resources, our own funds at least 65 to 70 per cent, and the regulator, who gave the State 30 to 35 per cent. Today, everything is exactly the opposite: a piece of pipe to be laid in Odessa or in the same Dnepropetrovsk, it is necessary to go to Mr. Pinzenik to give transportation to put up 150 metres of this pipe because there is no money in the budget. Of course, it's all the same to the whole structure of understanding of the local budget. What should we do? First of all, to replace this formula, which is said to be the route of flight to Alpha-Centaurus, is calculated by a smaller formula than the transport subsidies that go to repair the same pipe anywhere. Simplify, make it transparent and understandable. We've got this formula here today that's a lot more than you can count. But it's in your hands again. We are now approaching the 2006 budget. And it needs to be fully worked out from now on, especially since the ideas and ways of solving the problems that you are facing are read.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Please have a seat, Valentin Kostunica. Yes, dear colleagues, I remind you, please take a look at the schedule of meetings today. We don't have a different one today. We have an hour with you today, as we are starting to discuss issues, to discuss the implementation of the State Budget, after the implementation of the State Budget. Then let's say that instead of the implementation of the "Variance" State Budget. Yes, so, dear colleagues, during this week we've spoken so much in the "Victory" that we'll just finish one question. Yes, it's time to discuss the implementation of the State Budget. Ivan Alexandrovich Rabbit, please, from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready for Sith.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u95	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! We need to break the practice when Parliament looks through its fingers at how the State budgets have been implemented in previous years. If we had carefully assessed the implementation of the State Budget in previous years, at least we would have found answers to many of the social, economic and economic problems that have been going on year after year, and we have also identified financial reserves for billions of dollars that could be used for social or economic conservation or other purposes. That's exactly where I want to look at the state budget implementation of Ukraine last year. With the approval of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2004, the government had set low macroeconomic indicators, for example in terms of real GDP growth, which was set at the State Budget at 2.5 times lower than the real level. What does this talk about? And the huge cost is actually being redistributed by hand, which excludes the planned sustainable development of society. On the other hand, in a situation like this, there's nothing to talk about the implementation of the policy of detining the economy. If the government proposes and the parliament approves underestimated macroeconomic indicators in the budget, it means that the authorities do not want to transform the shadow sector of the economy into a legal one, that is, they do not want to bring the shadow sector into the world of God. Hence, there is nothing to say about the serious progress of society. The Ukrainian People's Party also draws your attention to the problem of controlling payments to the State Budget. Some sources did not provide 3.5 billion dollars of income planned for 2004. In general, all the "control authorities," in quotes, pointed in this direction. More than 2 billion dollars are not provided for revenue that is controlled by the State Tax Administration. Adam Ivanovich, you can't perform. The government’s customs service did not generate more than half a billion dollars in income. In both the first and the second cases, the left-hand portion of the impropriety took place at a value added tax. What does that say? At the very least, this speaks of a whole set of tax problems at added cost. Which one of you doesn't know that it was by using the added value tax that a lot of shadow schemes were being implemented, such as budget dissipation schemes. We need to get a good look at these shadow schemes as well as the incentive function of this tax. Each of you knows that VAT returns to both manufacturers and middle-sized entities that provide so-called services. And they're returning the VAT to the middleman, not to the producers. We have a bill from the members of our Party of War and Osadchim, which aligns this situation and allows the producers to pay more than the intermediaries. I would ask you to accept this very bill. Therefore, we need to draw conclusions when discussing such serious matters rather than simply hearing them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm being noted here that there are no national MPs in the room. I'm asking who has nothing to do with the national deputies to leave the session room. Please, from the faction of the National Party of Saint Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, faction of the 74 People's Party constituency, Carpathians. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government! A report on the implementation of the 2004 State Budget has been carefully processed by the People’s Party faction. During the discussions, the factions agreed that, during the reporting period, the government had largely succeeded in implementing the basics of budgetary policy. I would like to focus on budget support for the agro-industry complex, the specifics of agriculture with its high level of risk for creditors and the specificities of production costs, and in our view a number of positive measures have been taken to support this sector. In 2004, according to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, expenditure was projected at 3.3 billion dollars against 2 billion in the previous year. Financial support for targeted software in the APC has increased significantly. In most important programs, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics has failed to absorb the funds allocated. Nevertheless, agricultural producers did not receive 119 million dollars. It should be noted that Kabin has been understandingly supportive of the People’s faction’s initiatives to allocate additional APC funds to cope with the negative impact of natural disasters. This greatly stabilized the situation. Moreover, in 2004, although difficult, but under pressure from the people's deputies, members of the People's Party faction were able to save not direct financial support for agricultural enterprises. The agrarian sector of the economy has 9 billion dollars of credit. Only 40.50 percent of the funds were actually allocated to the implementation of development programmes. In 2004 the rural and social development costs of the local budgets were particularly modest. Dozens of times smaller than the state. The gap between the city and the village continues to grow. The countryside is becoming increasingly unattractive. Schools, kindergartens, health facilities, businesses, and businesses continue to be closed. The village’s labour force is draining, and especially the young are growing. Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction has made concrete proposals to the 2006 budget policy guidelines. which could be the basis for the preparation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year. Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction will insist on its proposals and will require the government to finance the public-purpose agrarian development programmes for the following year at least 10 percent of the total expenditure and at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product. Report to the Government on the implementation of the State Budget in 2004
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u98	Yes. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare Noshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u99	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, reverend Victor Mikhailovich, radio listeners. 2004 is already a story. As we stop today and what was done in 2004, we must warn both the Cabinet of Ministers and the ministers, Victor Mikhailovich, and you, including yourself, of the mistakes we believe were made last year. Because there was no government that made no mistake. Someone's draining government money, someone's coming to the village, not giving away everything that belongs to the village, and all of this has been done, we'll talk, outside the public eye or without the control of society. I asked Victor Mikhailovich about the mechanism or position of financing for farmers. I never got a specific answer. Will the farmer get the money this year? If there's no such mechanism, let's let the committee work on it, or the Ministry of Agriculture, but if it's the Ministry of Finance, we have to finance it. This is a warning to me by other programs that apply to the village. Victor Mikhailovich, I would like to thank you, of course, from this high rostrum for the fact that there is a normal funding for the direction of tribal affairs in animalry, at least I have this information from the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. But other programs need to be considered when we finance them. If this is the last month of this year, December, as other governments have practiced, will be a disaster for the village. If this is done as you do today by animal production, it will indeed be the aid of the village. We're looking for a transparent funding mechanism for all rural programs. The Socialist faction insists that once a month we in Parliament have information from the government that's being done in a different direction, and then we'll see that the government is working transparently, and then we'll support it as we supported it. Government. Otherwise we can't talk about having transparent funding for all programs either in the country or in industry or in other directions. On this point, I would like to say that the priceless booklet that we are given today has opened our eyes to many things that have been done in the state as the money has been drained, and they have not gone to the average citizen of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u100	Mikola Nightshenko, Democratic Ukraine. Get ready for Mikola Komaru. Mikola Petrovich, I know you're feeling better at Ludmila Pavlovna, but you're already in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u101	Nightshanko Mikola Petrovich, Democratic Ukraine, election block Volodymira Litvina. The honourable chairman, the distinguished electorate. Ukraine’s growth in most economic and social development indicators in the past year exceeded the level of previous years and the projected level of indicators taken into account in the formulation of the State budget. From the State budget, transfers were made to local budgets of about 17 billion, which is 106 percent. The revenue of the State budget has been overturned. These are facts that cannot deny even the 2004 budgeted opposing leaders of a number of major funds managers. At the same time, there are 33 planned sources of income, 5 billion of which are under-received, which is also a planning gap, as well as a resource, a reserve used in the current year. The practice of lowering the forecast of arrivals and spending the SPF has continued. To think about it, almost 5 billion of us have been added to this year. The government has systematically ignored established forms of parliamentary control over the use of budgetary funds. A number of normative documents have been adopted late without the necessary agreement with the Committee on Budgets. For example, the 7 articles of the 2004 Budget Act, which required government decisions, were not implemented. During the financial year, 79 times the procedure for the allocation of the contingency fund was violated. In general, cooperation with the Ukrainian Committee of Budgets was perceived by government officials of all levels as a major pain. People's deputies, it turns out, are only needed to vote when the budget figures are approved. As a result, the uneven financing of individual targeted regional programs, the accumulation of huge sums in treasury accounts. For example, on September 1, 12 billion. After that, it's also ineffective. the purpose of budgeting. For example, the 2004 budget provided 68 million to support agribusiness enterprises in particularly difficult climate conditions. It's 6,000 700 tons of seeds, 7,000 700 tons of fuel-oil materials, 15,000 tons of mineral fertilizers. The numbers are amazing. But in the Sumskie region of 1 million and 800,000, no amount of agriculture was paid for by the Cabinet of Ministers. Five months. This year too, billions of dollars remain undistributed in public. So mistakes are repeated. The Democratic Ukraine parliamentary group proposes a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2004 to be made public. Those guilty of budgetary offences, inefficient use of budgetary resources, shall be punished in accordance with the requirements of applicable legislation in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u102	Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u103	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. Dear colleagues, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" notes that Ukraine's 2004 government budget for income has been overrun by almost eight percent. Only the 2004 and 2003 budgets were implemented in virtually every article. While the budgets 2000 and 2001 announced in the days of Prime Minister Yashchenk were not actually implemented. Their balance was calculated more than. the percentage of underfunding of expenditure, including social programmes. The income of the State Budget in 2004 increased by 27 percent compared to 2003. The deficit in the budget was 3.4 percent of GDP, which is an acceptable indicator. The sources of funding for deficits were primarily over-planned revenues from privatization. The record of privatisation revenues is explained by the unwillingness of the oligarchs to distribute ownership and, in general, the stability of the economy and the confidence of investors. Yes, the Crimsonstal was sold for 800 million. In 2000, the government of Yushchenka sold it for 68 million dollars. And it's even cheaper for Santa Claus. The 2004 budget, unlike today, was not only balanced by income and expenditure, but also internally agreed. It was based on real parameters that allowed the government to maintain an acceptable level of inflation. At the same time, the improvement in the quality of life of the population was based on real budget revenues. Hence, the government’s reference to today’s growth in inflation as a legacy of previous, baseless inflation. Accused of the government's lack of population income growth in 2004 and their inadequacy with GDP growth rates are not correct. Population incomes are always lagging behind for six months, a year from the increase in production volumes. So today's increase in social benefits is based on the achievements of the previous government and, on the contrary, provided by irresponsible economic, social policies of an active government, as Yushchenko says, sharp economic growth will lead to a decline in the income of the population at the end of 2005. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction notes that in 2004 the State budget was based on actual legislation, its perpetrators did not seek to force the laws illiterately, if necessary, to Parliament's next elections, as the political forces that are in power today do. We warn that such economic policies pose serious challenges to the domestic economy and the decline in the standard of living of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u104	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Katuszevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. In fact, we've got a very interesting document -- conclusions on the implementation of the 2004 State Budget, and we need to study and study it. But there is I would like to start with the European Charter. Two years ago, we accepted it in this session hall, and two trots sabotaged the dispatch of a corresponding religious letter to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on the premeditated basis that there was no budget, no forecast money, no funds for its actual implementation, of this charter. So I'm talking to you, Victor Mikhailovich, and I want you to figure out why they're fooling us here for two years -- and the old government, and the old M.E.S., and the new government, and the new M.E.S.? Come on, look for money to implement the European Charter. The second question. And it's very interesting in that document that the House of Auditors gave us, on page 11, there's this graph, and there's this chart that lists the real income indices of the population and the real wages. Growth is certain; it cannot be denied. But they make up, real wages and real money just 75 percent and, respectively, 60 percent of the level that was in 1992. What's more, even that one. That's exactly the level that's considered to be higher, there, if you look at the corresponding documents of the State Tax Administration, at the lowest part of the revenue recipients, it's only 1-3 percent, and those who have hundreds of thousands of dollars per year have 30-35 percent. Here's your conclusion. "Who's a bug and who's a bug hole." The poor become the same. They remain poor as they were, and the rich become richer. That's how we're going to grow. And the next moment, Chernobyl, the Chernobyl problem: the debt remaining on January 1, 2005, the debt of the old days -- 145 million dollars. How many times have all governments sworn to the Chernobylites that they will come and do their duty, and this debt will be cancelled, that is, it will be consolidated and will not appear again and again. But that's why I'm asking you, Victor Mikhailovich, to repay the loan to the Chernobyls, please. Nope. I'm going to get the Russians and the niggers and put a bet on your government. And the last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Zara Katusheva, the Comist faction. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u107	The State budget is also the funding of the judiciary. Yesterday, on 19 May, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruled that Karagodina had been elected judge for an indefinite period of time, who had received two years' salary from the budget without having the right to do so and taking over the judge's office. Yes, the Crimean, the Karagodina you asked to prevent her from being elected judge in any way and indefinitely. Because it is on your skin that you have to clean up the chastity of that judge. However, the meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy in the debate on the candidature of Judge Karagodina was supported by only two votes of Onopenko and Onichuk, and by a majority of the Committee's votes, it was decided that the candidature of Judge Karagodina should not be considered or recommended indefinitely for the election of a judge. But with the help of the committee’s chairman, Onopenko must be commended for having the ability to extend the necessary persons perfectly. I think there's a built-in system. Onopenko was so quick to present to the judge that the right to call the same Tobacco, as I have been told, was once again higher than the law. Even a number of Crimea deputies, who I am sure are well aware of the fact that Karagodina does not have the moral right to carry out human destiny. But for some of them, it was not her professionalism and moral side, but her mother's membership in the SDPI(o) party and the work at the headquarters of one of the presidential candidates. But I was struck by the so-called courage in the coffeehouses of those who were at the committee meeting, by the fact that you were silent in the hall, especially in all beauty, the head of the committee showed yourself. It's no longer a man's thing, especially a deputy to go down to the level of digging in his colleagues' personal belongings. I will never reach out to you, Vasily Vasilyevich. And on your conscience will be the chastity that this judge will surely begin to create. I am sure that the lack of judicial practice can be remedied, but it is not possible to make a decent judge out of a hammock. All right, hold on to the briar. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to give both the Regulatory Committee and other relevant services a legal assessment of ignoring the Committee's decision and the unethical conduct of the committee's head. And why did they vote on cards of those who were not in the hall, such as Rahansky, Hapochka, and many others? Please consider my statement as a deputy request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u108	Eugene Gorenik, the faction of our Ukraine, followed by George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u109	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Finance Minister Victor Pinzenik was reporting on the implementation of the 2004 budget, which was designed and executed by another government. Such a formal procedure. And it should be noted that this minister acted correctly with regard to his colleagues, not as an anecdote of three notes: he did not accuse all the sins of his predecessors. It's business ethics and it's the right thing to do. But this applies to the government. And we, as the Supreme Council, should not be winding in paper, but putting points above "and." First. I would like to remind you that the budget has been prepared for the Januković government programme called "Openness, Efficiency, Performance". The bottom line is that everything was done exactly the opposite. Moreover, the government of Yanukovich, in many ways, has fallen into the pockets of taxpayers for 2005. Therefore, you will not envy the active government because it has to carry the redemption of other people’s sins and the result of these sins is a pension balance, both a fuel and a price crisis. We've seen how things have changed, including under the pressure of the faction "Our Ukraine" of both the profit and expenditure of the past budget. But no rational use of it, no more, was it about social orientation? On the contrary, an active dissappointment was carried out. Moreover, the cost of the budget is broken down. And this is the most pronouncing fact that Ukraine would have gone to if the Kushmew regime in Yanukovich's person had been preserved. So we need to draw conclusions and no longer allow presidential or parliamentary elections to become worse for the state and its budget than any natural disaster. The findings of the Court of Auditors, control services, and analysts are that 2/3 of the funds of the contingency fund have been allocated illegally. I read like almost 1 billion investment in capital went to the polls. Specfonde is a very specific subject at all. This monster grew from 5 percent in 2000 to 36.6 percent of the current budget. And so on. And if there is a crime or a violation, there must be punishment. Unfortunately, the draft decree does not provide for that purpose. So I suggest that we complete it with more hard language. Note the estimates of the then-acting government in the preparation of the budget and the significant deviation from the budget resolution and the conclusions of the Court of Auditors to be transmitted to the Attorney-General, not recommended, but referred to the Attorney-General's Office for the establishment of the culprits. And finally. The 2005 budget, its implementation, is a lesson for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u110	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u111	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Ukraine had not yet been aware of the implementation of the State Budget Act, as it had little place in the past year. It can be described in a number of words: adventure, volunteerism, and unprecedented manual management. And at the time, the law enforcement authorities, first of all, the Attorney General in charge of Vasiliev, then kept quiet, as if she had gotten water in her mouth. I believe that such things should never happen again in the future. And what Henprocuror Vasiliev kept silent is probably not surprising, because there was the only chamberlain Janukovic, Azarov, Vasiliev, the Attorney General, who was with them. On my repeated appeals and parliamentary requests to Henprocuror for obvious violations of the 2004 State Budget Act by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I received write-offs from the Attorney General's Office. I am now addressing the Attorney General of Saintoslav Piscoon, who declares everywhere that he serves only the law and no one else. Please return to the consideration of my parliamentary appeals and parliamentary questions regarding the implementation of the 2004 State Budget Act. There's a lot of violations that I specifically pointed out. I expect a qualified answer to these questions. Next problem. I'm already asking the Minister of Finance, who's been very professional in reporting from this rostrum, that the Cabinet of Ministers, along with the Committee of Budgets, should come back to the problem of the calculation of the local budget's revenue formula that is taken into account in determining the local budget transfers. In my constituency, almost four districts. One of them is purely mountain, two areas partly mountain. They tolerate all the regions, not the mountains. But it's the mountains that are the most affected because you know how difficult it is for people to live there. Thus, that formal method of calculation for today does not meet the requirements of real time. There is a lack of budgetary support, including for budget staff. I've already asked the question that there's actually enough budget funding in these areas by August. Thus, the question of reviewing the formula of the local budget’s income calculation, which has so far been available for every citizen of our nation to receive sufficient funds from the state budget. In this case, we will really say that we care about the interests of the Ukrainian people and the interests of the entire Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u112	I can't see a nigger. Oh, I'm sorry. Vladimir Černjak, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, prepare Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u113	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the characteristic and chronic weaknesses of the budget process, which are characteristic of the budget for the past year, are: the lack of budgetary discipline in calculations, the inefficient management of the state budget, the purposeless use of budgetary resources. The government substantially lowered macroeconomic indicators, the government hid revenues, and used them manually. The black hole of the shadow economy has resulted in the disappearance of some 8 billion to 10 billion dollars. I don't think there's any particular reason to be proud of overcoming the revenue portion of the budget by 5.1 billion dollars or 7.9 percent, because this has been achieved, not because of the projected economic growth, but because of the overpaid 3 billion dollars in payments and the non-reimbursement of 3.5 billion dollars to taxpayers for the added cost. It should be noted that there is no reason to be proud of the fact that there has been a reduction in tax debt. In fact, there has been an increase in tax debt. Tax debt cuts of 5.2 billion dollars have been achieved by the tax authorities of more than 4 billion dollars in debt, time and tax evasion of more than 2 billion dollars. So we have 6 billion, and we've reduced it by 5.2, so it's essentially 0.8. So this is basically a digital manipulation. The major drawback was the allocation, the allocation of budget funds by the end of the year. Instead of gradually allocating funds for needs, a large proportion of the funds are allocated at the end of the year. And this leads to a time-consuming and incomplete use of them, and as a result, the elimination of 927,7 million dollars into the budget. Almost a billion dollars could not be used in this way because they were allocated at the end of the year. And especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u114	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. It will be followed by Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u115	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenka faction, Our Ukraine. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. I'm going to this rostrum for the third time today, not with Cosmopolitan or even Capitalist, but with reports from the official expert, legitimate evaluations of our Court of Auditors. We haven't just heard the next report on the implementation of the next budget. Here was reported by the finance minister of the new people of elected authority for the implementation of the budget by the previous regime. Dear colleagues, chief voters, I don't see any ex-premier and ex-candidate Janukovic in this room. In this room, I don't see any person in the faction of Victor Medvedchuk SDPU. What, so embarrassing to look into the eyes and listen to the report about your government's implementation of your budget? And in this report, it's worth putting your hands around the rostrum and putting your tears on display, because today we're reporting for the denial of the interests of 48 million Ukrainian citizens. My colleague Melniczuk spoke of agrarian abuse -- 178 million 90 didn't come back for the soybean. Samuel’s colleague mentioned that the new authorities had to allocate 70 million to create shelters. Not to blame for the previous governments and abuses reported by the Court of Auditors, for what we have, for how many, including social. The motto of the previous government, "Efficacy, effectiveness, efficiency" or, more faithfully, openness, can be called categorical closure, categorical manual management and definite action in favour of their own pockets, their own corrupt interests and the effectiveness that was to be due to these manipulations, but fortunately, it did not result from them. And this is the great result of the Ukrainian people. So, my dears, I would like to ask you, where is our ex-procurator Vasiliev today? By finding the brown color of the flags that say "state." What State? Whose state? Is this the country of Ukraine? He's marching today to protect some rights. But he has to answer to this budget today because I'd like to know at what cost did he find those brown flags? Was it not the money stolen from the Ukrainian people that marched and trampled on the green grass and that of the blue and white lazy people who received 100 bracelets at the Vatutin monument for the protection of the rights of one man, Kolesnik? A colleague in the left faction asked Mr. Simonnka how punished or sentenced for the abuse of the 2004 budget? See? So you're asking if people are responsible for the abuse. Only one person begins to be held responsible for abuse, and the funds for misappropriation of Ukraine’s many budgets are immediately paid for by people who care for the Supreme Council. Dear friends, we don't just have to turn the page, we have to give this page.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin. Andrew School, please, the faction of the Tymoshenko block. Get ready for Drogunzov. Well, he's already after you, he's blinked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, are not so many, here you see, an honest word, an entirely empty line of former authority. And, of course, it's not pleasant for them to hear about their ex-premier's activities, I understand that very well, their President, but, nevertheless, I would like to literally, in a few words, literally highlight those aspects that are important to me, in the formulation of the previous budget and what should come out of the formation of this budget for the next. If you want to stop at a narrow point, if you're not used enough, and there's little attention given to it, that's the aspect of the development of this thing -- the state language, the Ukrainian language, it. Not many people talk about it. Ten million have been allocated there, formally written out, not giving a penny, but now 30 million dollars have been allocated, but no processes have been affected. We live in a country where Ukrainian language is a certain official ordinal, it doesn't develop, it doesn't become a youth, it doesn't get any, it doesn't get any, it doesn't get no public support. A language developed by the forces of amateurs is not a national language. If Ukraine and today's authorities don't need it, we need to announce it, we don't need it, we're a multicultural, multilingual state here, we're all going into some language, for example, English. No, it's heavy, it'll be easier in Russian. And that's all there is to it, because we can talk about foreign strength many times. In the Ukrainian space of foreign media and so on. Now in the budget line, 30 million dollars -- what can you do about it? What can be done for 30 million dollars under modern conditions? Nothing. You can only formalize processes, you can study them or you can't study them. We can say hundreds of times that we're a terribly independent state, but we'll all be writing the Kiev and still be embassies of a friendly country in the neighbouring country of Poland, where we'll be writing the Polish Embassy in Kiev. Not in Ukraine, but in Kiev. So we don't want to feel that we're responsible for preserving certain cultural acquisitions, and these cultural acquisitions have to be protected by individual lines of the budget, and first of all, the language must be protected. And 30 million is, I don't know, we can spend on the development of the Karaite language. That won't be enough, but a little bit. And for the development of the Ukrainian language, you have to spend 3 billion dollars, and only then can we talk about what it's going to be. You have to ask about learning a language at school, you have to decide what language education is given in Ukraine, in Ukraine or in Ukraine. Then everything will be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u118	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, he spoke to the press and has the opportunity to talk to the hall now. Get ready for Drogunzov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Understandably, studying such a healthful book that was distributed to us this morning is totally not serious, or approach to the deputies before.!Oh, my God! I'd like him to stop this approach. It is clear that the conclusion we have reached today on the implementation of the State Budget by the Court of Auditors is actually the judgement of the Kuchma regime, Yanuković. But at the same time, Victor Mikhailovich, this conclusion is a second envelope for your government. Second envelope. You know the first one says it's all on the forerunner. And the second one says, "recognize your mistakes." And by admitting our mistakes, we have to watch how the budget is being implemented and now, and think that the petrol-fueling crisis, including this, is because now in the new State Budget Act, 50 percent of the 4 to 50 you have raised government taxes from energy-efficient enterprises. So out of 10 billion, 720 dollars, you get 5 billion 200 million dollars. And that's why we got what we got. And we're also thinking about the first envelope. No, my friends, after 100 days, you opened the second envelope. Remember that the third envelope is already being prepared for the predecessor. I would like us to draw the right conclusion from the criminal budget execution that was last year, I repeat, criminal. I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that, contrary to article 91 of the State Budget Act, where you and I are parliamentarians, we have said that the number of central executives should be reduced by at least 10 percent. The government adopted 20 decrees that increased the workforce of executives by 6,000,237 units. That's the shortcut. Yesterday, I'm taking over a delegation from Lubnov's Motherland Defenders. What do they say? In a district hospital, in a district hospital, 20 doctors are reduced and released. You can't find the money. I'd like to ask Victor Mikhailovich, Lubna, district hospital, unless it's 20 people you're releasing right now. Release these 6,000 237 units that were foreseen in this. Next. Let's end the tax and accounting bills that we have different, unify them, please, Victor Mikhailovich, this is the advice of a non-alien person, this is the advice of a person who is in pain for what is going to happen in this country. Let's unify
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u120	Please, Sergey Doroguntsov, prepare Hennadia Udovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u121	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, dear friends, I'd like to say that not only did the old authorities' representatives disappear from the hall, but I don't see nearly representatives here except Jaroslav Kendzior and Widow and representatives of the new government. So you have to look at all the rows, not just the one. I want to say that I've known Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik since 1990. There are few who started there. Once again, I have never served the Kuchma regime since 1992. So it's easy for me to criticize all the criminal steps that have been taken by this government, well, in 11 years, let's say. And I hope that there are only those deputies who hope to have something from the 2005 budget. I'm one of them. What are we talking about? I'd like to say that we're not just last year, we're always underestimating education spending in the budget. You've heard that schools are closing down, teachers are shrinking. This is totally unacceptable, Victor Mikhailovich. That is how you view science, for education has always been, is, and will be the column on which our authority is held. You know we're an educated nation. But hundreds of thousands of illiterate children have already appeared, as in the United States. What do we want there? And that's what I want to say about science. We need to support science. You can't cut it, you can't beat it. Thank you for raising your salary. It's a thank you, yes. Three times this year, they raised the wages of scientists. And in addition, they've set a fee for the appointment of a professor and an associate, and it's also the support of these people, who are definitely.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u122	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, head of the Committee on Human Rights He will be followed by Volodymyr the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I asked the committee to take the lead. And so I would like to address a number of issues that concern the committee's sphere of activity. But I would like to start by not agreeing with some of my colleagues who have criticized the finance minister for their prejudice towards the previous government, to the budget he is reporting today. On the contrary, I could thank the honourable minister for his tolerance in considering the implementation of that budget. It should be much more acute to address the criminal acts that the previous government has committed, the affairs that the previous government has brought into our state. The biggest affair is a pensioner's lie, it's like an increase in pensions, and not a penny of that increase in this year's budget is what they didn't put in. Well, we can continue these affairs. That's why he's being tolerant, that's normal. And I don't want us to start with a clean letter. We still have to bring this to an end today about the huge abuses that have been committed in the 2003 budget implementation process by another government. But you see one, two were detained, which was committed in Ukraine, because this anteater was slightly defiled. And you see what happens in the state. But on my return to the subject, I addressed Yanukovich, the prime minister of that time, five times with fundamental letters on funding for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens on the need to support national minorities. I can see Paul Mikhailovich. I'm already talking about the Ukrainian people under national minorities, because today's small portions of that budget for the functioning of the Ukrainian language is a shame to our state. But don't forget that today in no project, there is no chapter on "Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms" in any budget for years of independence. What do our people do? They're already talking to Strasbourg. Strasbourg has already given us 50 volumes of the legal foundation led by Sergey Golovat. 50 volumes of decisions and approval by the European Court of Human Rights. It's not just Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Anatoly Grzezhev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, reverend Victor Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and respected TV listeners. You know, the biggest problem I'm worried about today, and it's probably because the hall is almost empty, that's what the government is giving, it's doing, it's praise to God, and others are reporting for this job. But when I went out to this rostrum, I thought, what do we have to do to take advantage of this experience? And this time that we're using in this rostrum, in this room, we have to use it to make the most of the procedure, not just the budget review, but the budget execution. The first problem that stands today is budget detail. There was already a question in this room about, let's say, the tape performance, the tape showing the budget costs. What does that mean? Today, the State Road Fund has recorded three billion dollars in one tape — repairs and maintenance of roads. What are the roads where they are built we do not lay, and what is more, we do not report accordingly. Road's done. What is the quality and what is the system of checking one or the other work. First problem. Another problem. I think the privatization that took place last year has taken place. Let's think about what's written in the privatization system. First, 25 percent should require development from each sold object. Victor Mikhailovich, right? That's right. So, please tell me, from the seven billion dollars that we've put in this year, how much did we put in for development? That's got to be a lot of money. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. And this is our debt, ours as members of the Supreme Council. Come on. You know, I'd also like to say that the problem of the budget cuts that have sounded in this room today, I think I'm talking to the radio audience more: when you see that in the winter, somewhere in November, December-months, they're going to put asphalt right into the snow, that's the problem of budget cuts. What does that mean? That means government today. Well, really, there's a problem, the problem with the spending part, the problem is that the expenditure is basically, i.e. the budget revenue is basically going to fall, basically the budget is going to be replenished during this period, but we don't have to put the economy at its feet with these problems -- the budget filling. There's a chance of getting credit today. Let's just think about using this experience, and the problem of lending the road fund as one of the supervisors. There are other costs of capital investment. Do not carry them until the end of the year, so that we can see again how we build in winter, and in winter we will work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u126	Thank you. Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party. John Boki will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u127	Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected Viktor Mihajlovich! In my statement, I would like to draw your attention, as well as the attention of the heads of government, to one very important issue: the financing of environmental security. According to the Socialists, the solution to this problem must be a major challenge in the work of the authorities, since maintaining balance and balance in human relations with nature is a crucial condition for the continuation of life on Earth. Regrettably, there is something else in practice. Take at least the issue of compliance with environmental legislation. Analysis shows that in virtually all spheres of society, it is being disrupted, with so many violations that there is no basis for talking about prudent environmental policies. For years, I repeat, there has been no implementation of the Environment Budget for years. This situation has taken on a pervasive and chronic nature. Thus, environmental charges are only partially used to finance environmental activities. Largely due to the lack of resources to protect nature in everyday life, there are massive violations in the use and renewal and protection of virtually all natural resources - land, water, forests, subsoil and so on. Due to the lack of funds and the impossibility of a normal fight, the extent of poaching is enormous. Landslides, natural deforestation and destruction of forest strips, uncontrolled survival of plant residues, weakening of the environmental regime is far from a complete list of today's realities in relation to our home - the environment. And all of this, I repeat, because there is little funding available. Therefore, the irresponsible financial policy of the authorities on environmental issues is a priority for such actions. It needs to be changed, and it needs to be changed. What should be done? In our view, there is a need to increase responsibility for the enforcement of environmental legislation, and the Office of the Attorney-General can and must play a role here. And I support the view that those violations that were in the report would be considered in the Attorney-General's Office. The goal must be to ensure a life perspective for itself and for the future generation. Without funding for environmental activities, this objective is problematic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u128	Thank you. John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Kuchma, thank God I'm gone, but I think both Ukraine and its budget will still be sneezing from the eating fumes of its regime. And what I'm going to say is it's not directly related to the budget, but in the end, it's all going to be, as they say, affect the budgetary atmosphere. On May 23, there will be another court in Poltava, called by journalist Ludmila Kucherenko of the National Council on Television and Radio. She was released on July 6, 2001, illegally, and this is said to have been admitted by the courts. She's being called up for reinstatement at work. Why I'm talking about it. Because I am personally responsible for her release. The thing is, in December 2000, I and the First Secretary of the United Nations, Governor Poltava Stepan Bulbo, were holding a press conference that was chaired by Ludmila Kucherenko, and I was talking about a cassette scandal there. All of this was recorded, and then the governor of Poltavski directed the videos to Kuchmi and the National Council of the cold. And for six months, they were looking for a reason to free Ludmila Kucherenko's trailer, and they got rid of it, but it was because she headed a press conference like the president of the Media Club, not as a representative of the National Council. And now she's being summoned and she's going to have to be returned. I don't know what kind of decision this court will be the last. But we have to get her back to work. In order to return to work, she would have to pay up to 40,000 dollars. They're not in the National Council budget. And I'm talking to the board of the National Council, and they're telling me, it's a beautiful person, so it's a beautiful worker, and a principled employee who wouldn't let anyone down was fighting for the presence of opposition in television and radio broadcasting. But there's nothing we can do, because then she's going to have to pay this huge amount, and there's no such amount in our organization's budget. And then, if we restore it, other people will continue to be rehabilitated during the Kuchma reign. And so, Victor Mikhailovich, you're creating this situation. I know that Vitaly Fedorovich Shevchenko, we've known him for 30 years, we've done books together, a man who's decent, but also this decent, honest man, as you can see, and his colleagues from the National Council, and we're still forced to follow those rules that were still dictated by mumbo jumbo. And here's the question, I think we need to solve it in some way, and budgetly solve it, and politically and morally, because we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Yes. We've got zeros. One minute, Paul is asking for a moment. Please, one minute. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Party, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I asked for the word because I understand that today's "different" will actually be used just to say that May 22nd is a historic landmark event. Day of transfer of the dust of Taras Shevchenk to Ukraine and burial on the Canary Mountain Taking advantage of the opportunity to address all those who honor the word of our national genius and all Ukrainian citizens. 11 traditionally, we're going to Chewchenka's grave in Cane. Please, we're starting our way back to Taras Shevchenk. In previous years, you know how these events were formally marked. In the evening in the Palace "Ukraine" the efforts of the All-Ukrainian Society "Prosvita" and the Ukrainian People's Party are being performed for the first time in this format in Kiev in the Palace "Ukraine". Cantats of Chewchenka. For the first time in history, the four academic choirs perform masterpieces of national art that were unknown to the general public.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how we concluded our discussion. This is quite right for some of you to point out that, as a result of the high professionalism of the people's deputies, we've practically combined the discussion of budget implementation with "different". Who wanted to say that. Because everything they talked about has something to do with the budget. So don't be offended that there's no difference. In fact, it was. 230 cards, shall we vote on the ruling? Shall we not vote on the verdict? So, dear fellows, this is where we're going to end. None. The committee did not propose a closing word, nor did it say that the committee asked for a closing word. There is no such thing as Ludmila Pavlovna. You were just making suggestions, your signature. Please, one minute, Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that all the comments that were made during the presentation and the proposals for the draft ruling are worked out on the committee and included for next week's vote in the completed version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. So you and I are going to make a unanimous or unanimous decision that we are going to vote on the draft 2004 budget execution order for the next plenary week. May 23-27, we have the opportunity to work in the districts. The plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on May 31. And we're going to have four more weeks of plenary meetings in general, and we're going to have to do a lot of, first of all, budget resolution, which is about preparing for the next budget process. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
