ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:00]] Registered in the 389 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies - Vascuk Katerina Timothy, Pavluka Mikli Pantelemonovich and Potapova Vasil Ivanovich. Let us welcome and wish good health and success in our colleagues ’ challenging activities. Dear colleagues, the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on January 13, yesterday. 32 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, six laws were passed, two bills were adopted in the first reading, seven bills were rejected, one bill was submitted for redrafting, two bills were transposed, one bill was withdrawn, 11 were passed, and one draft decree was rejected. As a result of a review of the proposals by the President of Ukraine, the veto of the President of Ukraine was extended to two laws of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Bespalled Oleg Pavlovich from the faction "Region of Ukraine". In harmony with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: To the President of Ukraine regarding the immediate cessation of operations involving the dispossession of property by the State Administration of matters to the office of the newly elected President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:33]] For 148 Request not supported. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE The factions. Please use fractions:
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u2	"Our Ukraine" - 75, Communists - 5, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, National Agrarian - 9, SDPU - 1, "One Ukraine" - 6, SPU - 20, Timoshenko - 10, NDP and Hard Ukraine - 1, "Soyuz" - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 3, "Centre" - 10, non-fractional - 7. Sergey LARINA to the President of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the misconduct of a member of the Central Election Commission of Mageri. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:26]] For-49 Request not supported. Petra SIMONENK, acting as Prime Minister for the provision of official information on non-agreements in bilateral negotiations with foreign states, customs tariffs on agricultural products related to Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. Vladimir DEMOCHIN is under the prime minister’s responsibility to lift the restrictions on the payment of pensions to military pensioners. Mr. Tomenka, Prime Minister, Attorney-General, on the implementation of measures to secure budgetary financing for the RTD company. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the delay in financing the state-owned agri-industrial development programmes of the Montenegrin Region. Alexander MASSENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing the military pensioners of the city of Poltava and the Poltava region in order to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Pensioners. The SASA branch is under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister to suspend the Minister's order to relocate the faculty of pre-training and to increase the qualifications of the Academy of Civil Protection from Kiev to the village of Vatutina Novovodolaz Region of Kharkiv. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Acting Prime Minister for the massive violation of the constitutional rights of employees of the Black Sea State Security Inspectorate to work, for the execution of a decision to reinstate the work of the illegally dismissed, for the verification of the rightfulness of the restructuring of the inspection and for the prosecution of the guilty. VALLERY OF THE LEBEDlON TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY FOR APPROACHING IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE CUSTOMS COORDINATION COORDINATION OF THE U.S. Customs OFFICE No. 881 Andrija SKILE to the Attorney General for the illegal capture of the Ukrainian Air Company, armed with military formations. Aleksandra TURCHINOVA to the Attorney General regarding the facts of the inflammation of national hostility, the spread of false hateful information during the preelection campaign. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the investigation of a car accident, which took place on 29 December 2004 in the village of Lantratica in the district of the district of Suma. LUKJANENKA’S left to the Attorney General regarding the making of Azar’s M.J. the material damage to the State at a rate of 5.3 million. U.S. dollars in his position as head of the U.S. Government Tax Administration. John TOMIĆA to the Attorney General for violating the use of public funds for the development of wine and gardening. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the Attorney General for the investigation of the criminal activity of a former official of the State Department for Communications and Information of Ukraine, Sergio Glotov, during the distribution of the country’s radio frequency. VOLADIMARY FIALKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for violations of television and radio legislation in the process of licensing television organizations. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Jurija ARTEMENKA to the Attorney-General on the abuse of power and the obstruction of professional activities of “South” broadcasters by the Primorski District Council of the Zaporozhye Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General for inappropriate response to the appeal of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the situation surrounding the shelters of the Open Shareholder Society “Poltavo Gas Discharge Lights Plant”. [[NICOLAIENKA, BULBA, SEMENYUK]] Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the non-application of measures to expose the murder of the son of the Ukrainian National Deputy on the 1st occasion of the call of the Taburian and to bring the guilty to justice. ANDRYA DERKAČA to the Attorney General’s Office for the verification of compliance with the requirements of effective legislation in the case of appointed heads and members of the National Committee for the Regulation of Communications and Verification of Abuses by These Officials. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the conformity of the legislation of the tax guarantee system with the customs authorities in the transport of goods. [[TEROJOCHIN, COLONIARI Total 5 deputies]] Vitalia ŠIBKA and Ivan BOKOGO to the Attorney-General on the inappropriate response of the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of privatization in the matter of violations of the housing rights of residents in the street of the Buildings in the town of Zaporozhye 23. Mr Bulby and Mr Volodymyr MASTRISHIN to the Attorney-General for the review of compliance with labour and civil legislation when the Supervisory Board of the closed limited limited stock company “Ukritnafta” decided to release from office as Head of Government of Ovčarenko. Vassila ZUSKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the illegal activities of the employees of the Shevchenk district passport department of the Directorate General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, and for the improper response to the parliamentary appeal. To the Attorney - General, Vladimir JAVORIY has been charged with providing reliable information on the conduct of criminal investigations into the facts of gross falsifications during the elections of the torturer’s city head on April 18, 2004, which was deliberately not investigated by the former Attorney - General. Jury PAVLENKA to the Attorney-General for illegal actions by the director of the Zaporozzyknik collective enterprise. Boris TARASJUKA to the Attorney General for the gang attack on a trusted candidate in the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk, is the deputy of the City Council of Dimitrov, Donetsk, Eugene Hovansky. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General on the use of measures for the comprehensive, full and objective investigation of a criminal case violated by the falsification of the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine. Julius TIMOSHENKO to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture on the violation of the land law requirements in the allocation of land to citizens on the street of the Polovy residential area of the Bortnitzi Darnicki district of Kiev. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Customs Service, Head of the Security Service for Violations by the Chief of the Luhansk Customs, Ralik, and his deputy to the Ukrainian Customs Legislation, involved in large-scale smuggling. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General on financial abuse and ineffective use of public funds at the Chernobyl AES State Enterprise. [[BANDURA, COLONIARI — Only 8 People’s Deputies]] Vassila ZUSKA to the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the General Audit Authority, the Attorney-General for the review of the distribution of 1 per cent of the funds of the establishment and the supervision of young multi-year plantings in 2004. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Head of State Tax Administration, the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the provision of clarifications to the disabled group I on the amount of the tax paid in compensation for his earnings and additional expenses in accordance with the court’s decision. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice concerning the provision of tax guarantees to the customs authorities in the transport of goods. [[TEROJOCHIN, COLONIARY - 5 NATIONAL REPRESENTATIVES]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Justice concerning the problems of paying off the arrears of the former workers of the Haersson region’s Hemisphere. Vassil NADRAGI to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges on the case of the Public Organization “The Association of the Authors of Ukraine”. Group of National Deputies to the Head of State Customs on the conformity of the current legislation on the status of the customs carrier of taxable goods. [[LUCASHUC, COLONIARS — Only 5 National Deputies]] Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture for the observance of the rules of law in the construction of the bridge crossing in the city of Grebinka Poltava district. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Head of the State Committee for the Protection of Work concerning the amendment of certain outstanding normative acts. VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION to the Ministry of Health regarding the mammography of necessary details at the Denishi Radiation Protection Centre of the Žitomir district. Group of People's Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on the use of budgetary resources by the Ministry of Culture and Arts. [[CHECK, DELIVERY, POLENCHIC, ASKIRCO]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health for the provision of the widow to the disabled by traveling to the Republican Hospital of Disability of the Great Homeland War. Vitalia ŠIBKA and John BOKHO to the Kiev City Head on the protection of constitutional rights for residents of the hostel on the street Suvorova 5. Jury PAVLENKA to the Prosecutor of Kiev City, Kiev City Head for the illegal closure of Fazenda newspaper and the dismissal of its employees by the management of the municipal enterprise “Editing the newspaper “Evening Kiev”. Stephen HMARI to the Attorney General on the criminal activity of the Minister of Defense of Kuzmuk and on the criminalization of the illegal alienation of the land located on the territory of the Kyiv military aircraft named Boden. Thus, honourable colleagues, there are only 46 parliamentary requests, including the factions: "Our Ukraine" - 19, the Communist faction - 4, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "Trud Ukraine and NDP" - 1, "Socialist Party - 6, Block Timoshenko - 6, Group "Soyuz" - 1, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues! According to the Rules, the People’s Deputy Mironenko requires that he be given time to speak in connection with his dissatisfaction with answers to parliamentary requests. The necessary documents have been drawn up by the People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u3	5 constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! On 18 November 2004, I sent a request for violation of the rights of residents of House No. 4 on the street of Gorodetsky in the city of Kiev, whose underground premises were illegally privatized by the Nikolayevsky enterprise with the help of certain officials. The people who lived in this house were the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the liberators of Kiev. This burden goes on for a long time. I am grateful to the Office of the Attorney-General for recognizing the illegal acts of these privatizers and their assisting officials, but it is clearly delaying the process of restoring justice, punishing those responsible for the privatization. This is unfortunately the case in Ukraine. From here, at least two conclusions must be drawn if we want the rights of ordinary citizens to be protected, first of all, to be fully restored by effective prosecutorial supervision and by the public court, justice. We remember that as soon as the supporters of capitalism sold their focus in 91st year they immediately rid themselves of popular control and so forth from the people's courts. What kind of court do you need? Clearly, capitalist, oligarchic, in line with the interests of the privatizers, covering up these criminal acts of privatizers. However, we must understand that, often mocking the Prosecutor's Office and the judges, in particular the Henprocuratorate, the Shevchenkov Court, which has shown itself unkind in this situation, we must take into account that the Prosecutor's Office, the courts depend on the legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the people must take into account that the people themselves, the regular electors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the 300 million, the privatizers. And when there is a dispute between the privatizers and the ordinary citizens, and the matter is not resolved for very long, as in this case, please recall that respected compatriots, which must be taken into account clearly that the Supreme Council of Ukraine must express the interests of the people. Let the capitalists be there, but there must be supporters of socialism, social justice. Otherwise, we will not, indeed, ensure the normal work of those honest prosecutors, honest judges who want to work for the law, for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the speeches made by the national deputies. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled for the performances. George Ponomarenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u5	Please pass the word to Andrew Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u6	Andrew Polit, please. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u7	Andrei Polit, Ukrainian Comparty faction, Leninski Komsomol. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. In the past year, our country has not only lived in presidential elections. In 2004, there were dates that were of great importance to all the honest people of the world. One is the century since the birth of a humanist writer. This event was noted in the country at the state level in accordance with the Supreme Council's decree, which we have adopted with you. But not everyone has the spirit of the Spider of Korchagin. And there are still forces trying to forget everything about the Great October Socialist Revolution and the building of socialism in our country. So on the night of December 26th to December 27th last year, vandalism was committed in the city of Bojarka Kyiv province over the memory of thousands of Somalis, thousands of ordinary Ukrainians who built our country with you. In Boyark, Nikolai Island's bust was broken near the National Museum, the former Nikolai Island Museum. The crime scene was attended by a specially formed group of representatives of the Company, the Komsomol and the Communist newspaper. They examined the scene, I'd say the crime scene, interviewed the director of the Kravchenko Museum. All the facts indicate that it is not just the hooliganism of individuals, it is a pre-planned cynical crime. In my view, it was prepared and implemented by no accident on the night of the counting of votes following the regular election of the next President. Someone was very confident about their victory and decided that the hour had come when you could rewrite history, make our heroes forget, forget the real revolution. The October Revolution of 1917, which brought freedom to the people from the power of capital, in which the people became a full-fledged ruler in their country. Someone's in a great hurry to break our shrines, spend the life values of Spider Korchagin and plant new ones, not ours, probably the American ones. The Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine expresses its strong protest against the onset of bourgeois forces against the memory and conscience of our people. We are outraged by the sudden, cynical actions of the political forces in the country, which are involved in the vandalism of the memory of Nikolai Ostrovsky in the city of Boyarka. We require the authorities to investigate and expose this crime and punish those responsible. And the new power has a unique chance from its first actions to prove that it is devoted to the people of Ukraine, not to anyone else. The authorities must condemn this act of vandalism and fully restore the damaged bust of a writer and a fighter, a humanist and a patriot, a man whose life has been a feat for millions of people on the planet, Nikolay Ostrovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u8	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. The next will be the Flood Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to point out that during these events that are now taking place in Ukraine, during the interim authorities, when the shadow of Kuchma is still in one of its own fields, I don't know, the legal field or the fuel field is going on with a bunch of absolutely criminal acts, and one of them in particular happened with the Ukrainian Air Transport Company. On Thursday, the law enforcement forces blocked and seized the company’s office at Melnikov, 24, without missing any employees. Colonel Glebov is in charge of the operation personally. And the rule of law doesn't explain its actions. Colonel Glebov noted that the operation was his personal decision. This is not bad, I want to tell you, when personal decisions are being made by law enforcement officials, or law enforcement officials. And I want to say that, personally, the Minister of Defense of Kuzmuk wants to put up his leadership, because he's not in charge of the Ukrainian Transport Company. I want to remind you that the Ukrainian Transportation Company is a good enough piece for Kuzmuk. The state company, the Ukrainian Air Transport Company, was formed in 97 and the company was handed over 113 planes that worked their resources. [[I'll give you an accent!]] Among them are 73 IL-76 aircraft, 20 aircraft with resource remnants that were repaired 2-3 years ago, among them 15 of them. And despite the approval of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev since 24th 2004 to prohibit the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and any other person from taking any action aimed at the release of Shevchuk, director of the Ukrainian Air Transport Company and Sirovka Valentina from a temporary duty, the armed forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces seized this station in the morning of 30 December, and later the Department of Defence continued to block the work. [[It was the fourth of January this year at 8:30 p.m.]] I now wish to draw the attention of the Attorney General. I don’t know if he’s in this country or he's doing his job, or not hundreds of thousands of similar crimes are happening in Ukraine right now. I want the Attorney General to finally show signs of life so he can twist his foot or his hand to understand if he's alive or alive? Does he imitate activity? Otherwise, he will share responsibility with those who are now committing crimes for criminal inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u10	Yes, instead of the Flooding Mikola Schershun, please. And instead of Pinzenic, Michael Tomenko will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u11	Mikola Shershun, Equine, National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, we have been separated from the Chernobyl disaster for almost 20 years. But the affected population continues to suffer the consequences of free politics in coping with its consequences, since many basic issues have not yet been addressed. The heroic efforts of previous governments were largely limited to a variety of managerial experiments that ended in failures. In recent years, when Chernobyl’s problems have been combined with others under the roof of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the work of eliminating the consequences of disaster and protecting injured citizens has almost been lost. Remember how from this rostrum in November after the task of the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine I informed about the disadvantages of treating and curing the affected population. It was not by chance that the nearly three million Chernobyl communities, the National Deputies of the Supreme Council, were urged by the Ministry in July of last year to separate the Ukrainian State Committee from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Thus, common sense prevailed, and the solution to all the social, medical, and radiation problems associated with the Chernobyl disaster would be placed in the hands of the only coordinating body. Moreover, we hope that the newly created committee will not only address the problems of the victims but also organize rehabilitation work for polluted agricultural lands so that people, our voters, can live and work peacefully on them. But is everything okay here? Yesterday, we invited a faction of the head of the Derkomberbile to a meeting and heard information about the committee itself. It has been found that this government agency remains virtual at present, for what are highly qualified specialists with a program of activity without room and real budget programs? So we're asking the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately approve the position, structure, boundary number of the committee and allocate the premises, and when changes are made to the State Budget for 2005, that's the main thing, to execute budget programmes to implement the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, to define "Drezhkombyl". In fact, such a bill is being prepared for us at the Committee on Environmental Policy. And one more thing. Creating appropriate structures at the regional level does not require any additional funding. Therefore, it would be useful for the regional authorities to identify the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster by analogy. In the three areas of Kiev, Cherkaske and Ravenske, they already exist and proved their effectiveness. Please consider our statement to be a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and we ask the Supreme Council to support us in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko will perform instead of Victor Pinzenic. Prepare Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the position of Victor Yushchenk's Block on the situation that has taken place in recent days. We're witnessing a show that the rest of Janukovitch's team today organizes in the Supreme Court when every ten minutes they announce that they're finally going to bring the complaints back to the Supreme Court, so I want to tell you that this show is very expensive for Ukraine. And I would like these showmen who make up these lists, along with those officials who decided today to sell the state property of Ukraine mass, starting with the cars of the President's Administration and the district administration, ending up in real estate, ending up in property, to answer to the law, just as these officials will answer. My colleague, Vladimir Bondarenko, will give specific examples, as is done in Kiev. And I am absolutely convinced that next week the Attorney General should be standing in this rostrum and clearly informing us how the Attorney General controls the situation, how he does everything he can to prevent this theft of the country, which is mass under the guise of determining the final results of the President's election. I'd like to hear from my colleagues at Victor Yushchenk's Block how the Attorney General found out the facts of the falsification of the elections on the second round, and whether she found out who was responsible for all those people who organized the forgery through the relevant server of the President's Administration, because we've heard that the records that Oleg Rybachuk published are absolutely authentic, then it's interesting whether Kiwalov will continue to teach Odessa students to defend the law as rector, as he forged the elections, or whether we have those people in law enforcement that will make them sit in other places rather than run colleges. Another problem that I wanted to pay attention to. Today, we are widely approached by people: what is happening in Ukraine, why Leonid Kuchma has assigned tens of people to various positions today. Let me explain. This happens for one simple reason. Today, the price policy for getting a pension of 1 or 3 categories has grown so in the Cabinet of Ministers that the door will soon be bounced. People walk, they pay money, they assign you for a week, and you get a pension, you get the right category, you get the right rankings, and then you're happy to leave this position. You've been assigned for a week, and you'll go quietly. And I'd like this one to be the same. This show in the Cabinet of Ministers stopped with the staff assignment and so that those who are currently in office for one day would be held responsible, as provided for by valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u14	Yuri Klukkowski gives the right to speak to Rephat Chubarov. Please. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u15	Reverend Head! Dear colleagues and voters! On January 7, in the center of the city of Simferopol, a group of 16 - to 21 - year - olds attacked their homes and injured them. According to the victims of the gang attack, I repeat, most of them were children before the bandits discovered their ethnic identity. That is, the attack was planned, and their ethnic identity was laid down as the basis for the choice of bandits by their victims. As a result of the gang attack, several children were traumatized by 2 of the girls, one of whom was 10 years of age, with severe consequences. This disgusting outing of bandits is not the first in Crimea. Similar horrors by young people who speak in an organized manner and identify themselves with the skinheads have been repeated in the Crimea during 2004 and against the Crimean Tatar youth. It is known that one such attack has led to tragic events in the bar.” Despite the extensive resonance of last year’s events, the Crimean police, along with it, strongly denied the existence of organized Shinked groups in Crimea. There has not been a comprehensive investigation into all the circumstances of the bar tragedy.” which allowed the skinheads who have contributed to the resistance among young people in general to avoid responsibility, and only young people from Crimean Tatars have been brought to trial. For me there is no doubt that one of the reasons for the treacherous attack on children on 7 January of this year is the outright concealment by the Crimean law enforcement agencies of activities in the Crimea of organized groups of young people who practice the idea of xenophobia, national religious exclusion, particularly the skinheads. So it's no surprise to me that this time, when the children were brutally beaten, again came up with a false version, said one of the attackers recognized a man in the synagogue who seemed to have offended him a few months ago. These and other facts of the activities of Crimean law enforcement not only show that they are professional, but also that they have employees who, in their opinion, are chauvinists and xenophobics. Otherwise, it can be explained that the Crimean Prosecutor’s Office did not violate the criminal case of the distribution of hundreds of thousands of copies during the election of various materials aimed at fuelling interethnic and interreligious hostility in the Crimea, particularly regarding the so - called letter to the Crimean Tatar people. I would like this statement to be defined as a request to the head of the Ministry of the Interior and the Attorney General’s Office to investigate all these cases involving attacks on people related to their ethnic identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u16	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Prepare Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The events in Ukraine have given rise to legitimate interest worldwide, but Ukraine cannot be separated from the events that are taking place today or have taken place on the planet. Last year, unfortunately, it was marked by an extremely powerful natural disaster -- an earthquake and a tsunami in the South East Asian region that caused significant, unprecedented human casualties. In one country alone, Indonesia, some 104 thousand citizens of the island of Sumatra, more than 35,000 children who have been left orphaned, and a total of 1.5 million children in one year, may no longer be able to learn. It is clear that man has not learned to govern or warn, and that he is unlikely to succeed, but today we have to do a joint effort to prevent new victims from hunger, from epidemics and from disrupting any part of the globe. Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, allow me to express my common words of sympathy to the peoples who have suffered as a result of the natural disaster and our mutual willingness to assist the governments of the countries whose citizens have been victims of natural disasters. I want to inform you that representatives of the People's Agrarian Party have visited the Embassy of Indonesia, recorded in the book of complaint, and during this week a group has been formed in the Parliament of Ukraine, an inter-parliamentary group of Ukraine-Indonesia, aimed at providing humanitarian assistance to this country, and further cooperation with the Parliament of Indonesia is aimed at rebuilding territories that have suffered and increasing the continuation of mutually beneficial economic and cultural relations between the two States. I ask our colleagues, as well as all people of good faith, to join in the humanitarian charity activities that are being carried out in our country today, in favour of those affected by the natural disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u18	Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, Communist faction. Ah, you pass Puzakov on, you pass on the right to speak to Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u19	Vladimir Puzakov Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I know 2005 declared in our country a veteran year -- this West of the Supreme Council imposes on all government, state, self-governance structures a high responsibility. Life has demanded that, even though this year, every veteran by all the services of the 60-year victory over Nazi Germany, as many veterans of war, labor and the Armed Forces are in need. Where the heads of cities and villages are kept under the care of every veteran, their condition improves. For example, in the city of Kirovograd, the head of the city of Chigirina and the city council of the veteran organization were able to do much. For every holiday until the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the city, the areas of Ukraine have not been overlooked by the participants in the fighting, the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the participants in the war, there are special amounts of money available. If more than 400,000 dollars were spent last year for 57,000 veterans of the city, the new budget allocates more than 500,000 dollars to social security and more than 300,000 to immediate material support for wartime participants and war invalids. On January 8, this year, on the date of the liberation of the city of Kirovgrad, all the liberators were invited and transported by special transport. They were greeted by young people with flowers, beautiful greetings, awards, material assistance, and a special concert to celebrate each of them. Only one of them who participated in the city’s liberation, the elderly, barely moved around the hall. They're getting smaller every year. Life demands that we do what is necessary to satisfy the material needs of veterans because they are worth it. So we national MPs can't be on the outside of this big veteran rescue thing that requires a year of veterans. All the services, all the organizations, must return face - to - face to veterans and direct their activities to make each veteran feel happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u20	Oleg Belarus is referring to Stepan Cloud's speech, please. For this reason, there is an appropriate appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u21	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I'd like to start by saying that I'm very surprised that today's agenda includes the adoption of an oath unlawfully assigned to the Constitutional Court of the former Deputy Chief of Staff of President Kovalenk. And I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to consider this a question of parliament to you, why this question was included in the agenda. Because once again, there is no Prime Minister today, there is only an executive duty, and he must be present for this procedure. In addition, a decree of gross violations has been issued. And so this question today should be taken off the table. And the second thing I'd like to pay attention to. During the last few days, the Kuchima regime is cynically and brutally engaged in unprecedented looting of property, arbitrary management of material and financial resources. And one such example is the assignment of President Kuchma's prizes in the field of science and technology for state bonuses. I would like to point out, for example, that there is a son-in-law of President Kuchma Pinchuk, the wedding of President Kuchma Pinchuk Mikhailo Aronovich, four representatives of the plant that belongs to Pinchuk. And a very interesting fact is that the award is awarded to the representative of the Adige Canned Factory of the Russian Federation. Let our pensioners and others know where the money goes, how Kuchma manages it. In addition, today my parliamentary request about how Kuzmuk unlawfully criminally handed over a portion of the territory to a private structure under the name of John Boden. I appeal to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to invite you to the Supreme Council, to make a statement from this rostrum by the Attorney General and to draw his attention to the fact that the prosecution has responded appropriately to stop this robbery unlawfully. And the Attorney General's Office is the only structure that can and should.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u22	Yes, Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, prepare Bondarenko instead of Zimin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u23	Honorable National MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, citizens of Ukraine! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state that in Ukraine, an organizational committee of the public council of education and scientists of Ukraine is established and functioning. During December-January, district conferences were held in all areas to create appropriate organizational committees and to create district centres. The first such conference took place in Poltava in the past year, where Peter Kravchenk, a Ph.D., was elected head. As the course of these conferences shows, the educational community is very supportive of this idea. This Saturday will be held in 14 other areas and later in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I call on the people's deputies to participate actively in these conferences. On January 28, a meeting of educational and scientific staff will be held in the Teacher’s House, where a public board of education and scientists from Ukraine will be established. The main goal is to uphold the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, because helvetius, the wise man, said that a country without education and science was a slave to its neighbour. The way out. What do we think we're doing this for? In order for Ukraine to embark on an innovative path of development. Among the goals are the social protection of our workers and the goal is to promote a rich, developed, socially protected country. I believe that both students, students, teachers, and educators, and scientists will find shelter in this organization, and the state will become richer and more developed. I'd like to pass the rest of the time on to National Deputy Boris Ilchi Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u24	Please turn on Boris Illich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! One second. In 2004, 43 million were planned for the funding of social publications. In fact, 19 million came. That is, 102 publications have not been funded. The 2005 draft budget for the financing of social publications does not contain this mark at all. I think it's the first time in all of Ukraine's visible, invisible, Soviet and non-Ryan history when the state doesn't publish its assets. What do they want us to do, run back to the trees and then climb down on the four of us and rush into Europe? If it's neglect, I'm just going to apologize, and if it's consciously done, it's a disgrace to Europe and the whole world. Thank you for your attention. And for the record, I'm asking this in the form of a parliamentary inquiry, because we always have to leave a Bulgarian mark. Thank you, Niklaenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u26	Yes, Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u27	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. In recent times, we've been hearing a lot about what's going on, how it's going to be at both the central and the regional levels, and what's missing is that the Bush administration hasn't been able to rob in all these years. This is about military titles and acts, about bonuses, about the high office that is given only for a few days. All of this will then be materialized in pension insurance. And everyone understands what's going on. So every day, with the inauguration, it's another billion of our money that's going through the pockets of officials who feel absolutely irresponsible because they're still in power, even though there's a new president in Ukraine. I think they should realize that every fact of self-enrichment at the expense of the state at this time will be considered a criminal crime and in court will be held accountable, including with the return of property. I want to say that aside from such so - called humanitarian or spiritual things, there are things going on that are purely material. For example, in Kiev, the Russian Embassy for the design of a future conflict between the new President and Russia is handing over a complex of sanatoriums and kindergartens on Vishgradska Street, 180, 180. It's prepared for such a transfer, but in another structure, the so-called "Khrushtovska docha" on Herceno, 7. I want to say that what's being done in the Vodice Desert and in the Conchi Zaspa with the state-owned representative houses, which will obviously be needed for the service, for the reception of foreign guests and the new government, is going to be something. Vice-President Zavrodni, Deputy Chief of Administration, Kovalenko, who is designed for the Constitutional Court, as well as Ishchenko, Minister of Ex-Minister of Bilokon, the first deputy head of the Kiev City Administration, John Fomenko, who has been active in the privatization of these state buildings since November of this year, i.e. since the first round of elections. I call the house numbers, I can call it, and all that sort of stuff. I think the Attorney General should consider what forces these people in such an operational order to capture each of them by a fraction of the good state. Djomin is involved in this work, as are several others known in Ukraine. It also touched the same kind of building that's being built and being prepared for sale in Conchi Sole. There is a large Ukrainian trainee Kiwalov who wants to privatize house number nine, as well as Azarov Mikola Janović, 19th house, Kravczuk Leonid Makarović, 41st house, Omelchenko Alexander Alexander -- 76 houses. I think we need to stop this vacchanal, and that's what the authorities in Ukraine that are responsible for it should do today. We must return to all of us, the Supreme Council, and to what happened in the Vodice Desert, where once again Shufrich, Gavrish, the Roadmaster, was seized by nearly ten acres [10 ha] of Kyiv land. This has to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u28	Yes, Your Honor, we're out of time for speeches. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate address. With regard to the question raised by Stephen Ilkovich, I would like to say, my fellow Members, that we are acting here, in accordance with the Rules. And there are two candidates. One from the judicial corps, and the other from the President of Ukraine. I want to remind you. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more minute, I want to remind you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that there are two more candidates, two vacancies to be filled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, this question is not included in the agenda, nor does it need to be discussed in the committees. If we change the procedure or amend the Constitutional Court Act, we will act in another way. The draft Law on Promoting the Development of Small and Medium Cities is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4563. The rapporteur is the national MP, Rudzikowski Mikola. Is there a Rudzkowski Mikola? Yes, there will be a speech from the committee by Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Ah, Rudkovsky Dmitry Alexanderovich. Excuse me. I'm sorry again. He doesn't want to, does he? Excuse me, please. Dear colleagues, such a rule of procedure is proposed. One minute, that's an offer from the committee. For the report, within five minutes, the answers to the questions are three minutes. For the co-report, three minutes, discussion and decision-making, 12 minutes. No objections? I even increased my time against what I proposed to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Small and Medium City Promotion Act is designed to accelerate the socio-economic development of small and medium-sized cities in a variety of their manufacturing spheres, reduce unemployment, create modern manufacturing transport and social infrastructure. Ukraine's proposed draft law is a law that sets out the general criteria for the granting of priority development status to small and medium-sized cities in Ukraine, and provides for the introduction of special investment regimes in small and medium-sized cities and special tax regimes in the development budgets of small and medium-sized cities of priority development. The draft Law includes 20 articles. Each is aimed at creating a common legal mechanism, overcoming crisis and depression in the development and economic development of small and medium-sized cities. To date, such a legal mechanism is virtually lacking in legislation. The first important feature of the proposed law is that it defines the general criteria and mechanisms for granting priority areas to small and medium-sized cities, not as an exception, as is the case today, but according to socio-demographic and socio-economic criteria. The second feature of this bill is that, unlike existing bills, it provides for the creation of a real legal mechanism, not a declaration, but a financial mechanism for the creation of productive, transport and social infrastructure in priority cities. Without this investment in the development of individual productions located in priority development areas will be ineffective. The bill is aimed at filling gaps in legislation regarding the regulation of legal relations at regional level with regard to small and medium-sized cities. It complements the existing legal base for the capital of Ukraine, the rural settlements, the regions of Ukraine. [[Ukrainian Capital Act]] [[the village's priority development laws]] [[accepted in first reading]] I will remind you that the bill contains cities and districts, but it is largely a framework. A few words about the financial and economic aspects of the adoption of this Act. It should be noted that its implementation will not result in financial and other budget losses. First of all, the tax benefits for business entities are provided only by the project, and I point out that only with regard to additional investments aimed at the reconstruction and re-profiling of production in small and medium-sized cities in Ukraine. It's different. The implementation of this project provides an overview of existing benefits for enterprises in small and medium-sized development cities that do not meet the criteria for granting priority development areas according to the project. At the same time, the introduction of this law will result in some redistribution of funds between local budgets and the state budget by about 1 - 1.5 percent. I would like to stress that the adoption of this law by Ukraine is fully in line with the socio-economic development strategy. I understand the people's honourable deputies that he is still imperfect. I hope that the National Deputies will submit their comments to the second reading, and they will be taken into account in the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the question is to Dmitri Alexanderovich. Please sign up for three minutes. On board, please, are the names of the national MPs who sign up for questions. Igor Ostaš, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u31	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Teryohin Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u32	Yeah, who's there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u33	Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u34	Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear reporter, please tell me why the practice of branch laws or special laws continues instead of making it a general rule for the regulation of tax laws. Why have these standards not been discussed and submitted to the Financial Committee, as well as to the Committee on Budget Affairs, which deals with inter-budget transfers and reflects such benefits in the State budget and in the local budgets? And don't you think that such a practice is bad for law enforcement and that we don't have to adopt such laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u36	I am very grateful for your questions. I'm going to say that I'm worried about this problem in general because there are these problems in my constituency. Of course, if you were a specialist, as it were, a man, a doctor of science and so forth, and offered the law in general, I would be very happy to support it. But I care about that question, so I took care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u37	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u38	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Dmitri Alexanderovich, will you name in your constituency other than Uzin, which cities are covered by this law? That's the first one. The other one. You are a member of the Budget Committee, and you know the Budget Code. I don't think that the more serious budget failures Terjehochin was talking about are any of your charms. And the third. How do you see this bill being drafted by the author, not by the committee, but by the author. I think there's still time for you to decide whether you're going to be a national deputy minister or a deputy minister to finalize this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u39	I am grateful for that question. I mean, yes, this bill is a bill, and it needs work. And there will be time for his work. And the fact that I'm going to work with you is definitely the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u40	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u41	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dmitri Alexandrovich, part three of the third project article states that the status of the priority development area, the introduction of a special investment regime in small and medium-sized cities of Ukraine is given by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, this claim is contrary to the requirements of Ukrainian legislation, namely the 92 articles of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine "On the Tax System", "On the Customs Tariff", which provide that the establishment of new and changing existing taxes and import duties is carried out exclusively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of Ukraine's laws. Please tell me, in the case of the adoption of this law, will this not create even more opposition situations? How to get out of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u42	Thank you. It's about what cities are going to be defined. Of course, tax laws in general are required by the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u43	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Time's up. Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of the Development of Small and Medium Cities of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Rudkovski. The bill provides for special legal measures aimed at stimulating the development of small and medium cities, overcoming crisis and depression that take place in small cities. That's what the car just told you. I will point out that the problem is topical, the intention is noble, but its implementation may not be effective enough. A number of comments on this bill, including on our committee, have been made by the chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, regarding the inadequacy of the bill of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, and other laws of Ukraine. Also, this bill repeats in many ways other laws, such as the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the National Small City Development Programme. At the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill should be sent for work from filing for re-reading. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in its conclusion, does not support the draft Law, because it considers the bill to be contrary to the laws of Ukraine and does not correspond to the basic policy of the Government on tax reform. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance gave an expert opinion. According to which the bill in question should be substantially worked out to reconcile the requirements of effective fiscal and tax legislation. Well, the conclusions are hard, the Economic Policy Committee is proposing that the author be returned to the draft. This does not mean that we do not consider it appropriate to continue to develop a legislative solution to the problem of small cities. But I think that if the author takes those remarks into account
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u45	Allow me to finish my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u46	If the author takes those comments into account, the correct comments that have been made and will prepare an improved bill can be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u47	Yes. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a discussion, we've agreed on a 12-minute speech, making decisions. We signed up for Yuri Karmazin, please prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski. Olga Hinzburg, Nadrag, Baranowski, and Gurov are also listed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u48	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, our citizens, I would like to say the first words of thanks to the author, the national MP Rudzkowski, for raising this issue in the first place. Of course, it's an ingrained matter, as he now understands the preparation of laws, especially when you're preparing complex laws, not some small one, or three words, as the government does or many of our colleagues do, he's trying to make a comprehensive law that would stimulate the development of small and medium-sized cities in Ukraine. Of course, it's the first time he's been on a rake because now it's not just about the law to stimulate the development of small and medium cities, but the language has to go in one order, and it has to be called, if it's already adopted, "To stimulate the development of villages, urban villages, small and medium-sized cities of Ukraine." And when it comes to taxing mechanisms, stimulating depressed small and medium-sized cities, and addressing the disadvantages of settlement systems in Ukraine, where populations of small and medium-sized cities, accelerating their socio-economic development, diversifying their manufacturing spheres, that is, what the author was trying to do, it was definitely required to reconcile with a number of other legislative acts. These legislative acts are the Ukrainian Tax Act, the Ukrainian Customs Tariff and the Ukrainian Local Self-Government Act. Of course, this law is also the State Budget of Ukraine, which predicts that it is impossible to foresee any benefits. Why I'm saying it's very useful to adopt and consider this bill. So far neither our government nor our President nor you have understood that these villages, villages, cities, middle cities, small and medium cities need to be stimulated by various taxes. The smallest tax should be paid by enterprises located in these cities, villages, and villages. And more, and more, with us putting industry in place and being done there, not artificially, but naturally adding taxes and providing jobs for these cities. Thus, of course, this law needs to be redrafted. But I will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u49	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u50	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I would like to immediately state that I have a deep drink for General Rudkowski, as the captain of the generals at all, I feel very positive about the title of the general MP. But I am convinced that this bill that we are considering today must be a signal to us Ukrainian parliamentarians. Sometimes we have to tell ourselves and stop. Well, as much as we can roll this, it means, all the time, this bullet blows up and we imitate that we're so big, you know, the goodies on the right, on the left, the benefits on the left, and then we wonder why we're living so poor, and then we wonder why we have this level of corruption, and then we wonder why the world is looking at us like a gangsta enclave with our power today, at the expense of the staff, not the power itself, and the personnel, I emphasize that. I understand the good intentions of MP Rudkowski. But I'm asking myself this question: how do I get under this law, which tells me that priority will be given to unemployment and so forth, and I want to ask myself: and the Hawk of my constituency is a beautiful city, which has a Magdeburg right, in which amazing history, we have recently celebrated its colossal anniversary, and the Rava Russian Gate of Ukraine, this is an entry immediately from this Poland, already rebuilt, into our very different civilization, which is different from the White Church of yours, which I, again, do as a city, deeply esteemed? What about Yavorov? What about other cities? Society, what are we doing? Who will determine which city to give priority to and which not to give, and why, for what reasons? And the secret of this law in one piece, I'm going to read, "The special regime of investment activity is the legal regime that provides for the introduction of tax, customs and other benefits provided for in this law. Period. That's where it's buried. I mean, new benefits. And I want to remind you that when Yushchenko became Prime Minister, the first thing he did, he canceled, if I'm not mistaken about 300 premiums that were subject to entrepreneurial activity. Not people! And don't catch me by word of mouth, I don't mind the benefits for veterans, for disabled people, or anything like that. I am against the benefits of entrepreneurial activities, for cities, and even for those so - called free economic zones that have not been given anything to Ukraine today. Therefore, my dear fellow, do not be offended, but we must not vote for this law. And actually, I think we need to put taboos on bringing these new benefits in there and stuff, or else we'll never get out of this swamp that we're still living in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u51	Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today we are considering a bill to stimulate the development of small and medium-sized cities in Ukraine, and this project in itself sets out the requirements for which a city acquires the status of priority development territory and will then be implemented in a special way. special investment mode. And for me, so when I was studying this law, I realized that it would have to have a city to get that status. We have every city in Ukraine with a list of such shortcomings as to determine the city as a priority. For example. There's a middle town. I'm proud that my district is such famous cities as Konotap and Six, and there's probably no one in the world who doesn't know "Shustka" in town that made film for photography and film and for photography, and the state that these cities are now being proven to be. You see, there's a population gap. It's young people, it's older generations, it's the middle generation. What do youths need today? For her to learn and to be organized, she needs training. What does the older generation need? It's for him to have a job and, accordingly, a salary for which he could support his family. What does the older generation need? This is, of course, a pension that could ensure his life and, of course, the attention of our society to him. For example, last year I worked so hard with this government to build veteran houses in my town of Konotapi and Six. So people who are older or lonely could come to this house, they could listen to some music, talk to each other, read books, have a glass of tea at night, come home and get some rest. That's what we've done. I don't know if I'm going to be able to finish these two big problems on the Konotap and on the Sixth in the organization of these veteran houses. But what I'm saying is, my view of this problem is that we can't be in Ukraine if we have such a small budget, and we're going to put out this problem or something, we need to know that people need to be given a job. If factories, factories, were to work, we would develop parallel spaces. If we have villages to rebuild, there will be jobs, we do not have to adopt such laws. This is a global problem that should be brought up by Kabmin for consideration by the Supreme Council and said, "Dear People's Deputies! Let's do these problems with you today in stages that will allow our people to work in the same way to put their share of the work into the budget and in doing so to restore the cities that are unfortunately dying today." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u53	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, MP's group "Soyuz". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Indeed, the subject that we are considering today must be developed. And I think that the proposed bill is taking a certain step forward. But I think that the problem of small and medium-sized cities should still be addressed in a deeper way, I think. First and foremost. It seems to me that today, when we are talking about that this bill has to be finalized to some extent, it is certainly important to understand first and foremost what it is to allocate to the budget. And here I do not quite agree with the point that, if you say so in the budget, there will be no cost, but there will be costs, because the granting of the Territory's status as a special investment regime already implies that there will be budgetary benefits. That is why this topic needs to be addressed, and then it can only be said that this law will be consistent with what it should be consistent with its own idea: when budgetary relations are resolved. And speaking of budgetary relations and the problem of small and medium-sized cities, as in villages and settlements, we need to be clear with you that the main problem here lies in their financial autonomy, and this is what they lack, because small and medium-sized cities, villages and villages, are receiving budgets from the hands of the area where they exist. And we have to say today that they have to get a full budget, and that's why there are two areas to work on. First, when we adopt the State budget, we must clearly understand that there is a large part of our population in small cities and towns and that they should receive a normal budget, and that is how we have approved the budget with you, and yesterday, literally, we have adopted the Law, which has changed it, because small, medium-sized cities, villages and villages do not even have money in their budget to contain cultural institutions. We've hung this with you on the district budgets, and that's why we need to understand clearly, the provision of small and medium-sized cities and towns, first of all, their budgetary self-sufficiency. In view of this, I think that there should also be changes to the budget code, according to which I am convinced also that, independently of the attitude of the district authorities, small and medium-sized cities, which receive budgets from how they are approved by the areas, that the villages and settlements that also receive their own budget from the hands of the district councils should be self-sufficient and therefore independent of the budget. Therefore, speaking of this budget, I think that the problem is broader and we must talk first of all about the budgetary self-sufficiency of small and medium-sized cities. This is the most accurate way to develop and improve the existence of these uninhabited sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u55	Yes. He'll ask the people's deputies to the session room, and we'll now make a decision, please, in the Cabinet of Ministers, one minute, Vashchevsky Valeriy Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, this law must be rejected, coming from at least two points that I would like to say to you today, 10% of the territory of Ukraine is special economic zones and areas of priority development, nothing good for the economy as a whole, except for the narrowing of the competitive environment in the state and the SEZs do not. And I think in the future they have to be cancelled. This is the first time. Second of all, small cities. This year you've adopted the State Small and Medium City Development Programme, there's a whole range of norms, one of them that allows 100 percent of all taxes on new enterprises in small and medium-sized cities to go to local budgets -- an effective incentive for the development of these cities. And at the end of this, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, we agree that the socio-economic problems of small and medium-sized cities need to be solved, but it will be constructive if we do so when we change, improve, in the general context of changing tax legislation, not by establishing special taxation regimes. So this law cannot, in our view, be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u57	Dmitry Rudkowski's microphone, please, the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for your support and criticism. I'll take that into account in my work. But I want to answer as the deputy-general of the Captain. It's not about any Uzin or anything, it's all about cities and villages, including the Zowkwa. And I would be very grateful if you would also elaborate on this bill and if the Law had some priorities. That's the first one. It's different. And I also want to tell our government representatives, well, it's good that you've also drawn attention to this problem after we've discussed it. And it's very good that if you were more qualified to make your proposals, I'd be happy to agree with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u59	From Gurov's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u60	Vadim Gurov, Krivbas. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt about the need to stimulate the development of depressed areas and primarily small cities. It is not a secret that economic reforms have created and will lead to the closure of a number of enterprises in the future. Moreover, there will be fewer jobs in these areas: mining, agriculture. In view of this, we need to create all the conditions to ensure the economic and social development of the regions concerned. So it's clear that the idea of this project will be supported by the "One Ukraine" faction. But at the same time, it is worth noting that there is some inherent flaw in the bill. So let's say the vague conditions for determining the term of payment are not defined. In view of this, the "One Ukraine" is proposing a project for further development and re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u61	Javorovska replica, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u62	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I once again testify to my deep Captainial respect for General Rudkowski. And I want to say about the Hawk, last year was the great round jubilee of the city of Jove. And as a national MP, I usually did everything with the executive power to rebuild the center of the Turtle to draw the attention of tourists to the Turtle. And I'll tell you, my dear fellow Rudkowski, that I will never ask for any help for the Turtle, especially for the Turtle. Obviously, we need to think about getting the whole of Ukraine up, not just our city or the town of our district. It's narrow selfishness. And I'm willing to look at these problems more broadly. That's a great idea. But I'm just against her. And you don't have to look for any other subtext here. I give you my captain's honor once again, General.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u63	Thank you. With Alexander Baranowski's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The fact that there is a problem of small cities does not give rise to any doubt. But, dear colleagues, the civilized world is going a little differently. Not by providing relief to all depressed areas, but by specifically building budget programs at budget costs, and they are being built accordingly in areas such as education, science, recreation, employment, appropriate crime control, health promotion, and so on. This is a whole set of questions, deciding which depressed areas can be raised according to a certain level. We realize that all the costs or large costs are going around in big cities, and the little ones don't get them. That's why I have to. Of course, it's a big problem, and the author of it today attracts our attention, it's very good. But this problem needs to be addressed as it is solved in the entire civilized world -- specific budget programs in depressed areas and in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u65	Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to mobilize for the vote now. The first is the vote on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Small and Medium Cities in Ukraine. Registration number 4563. Please vote. [[11:26:15]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Then the proposal for a profile committee is to rework, that is to re-read. So I'm voting on this proposal to re-read the draft Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Small and Medium Cities in Ukraine, registration number 4563. [[11:26:50]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law on Information Security for Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur - Ukrainian National Deputy Victor Kirilov, co-reporters: Andreszuk Boris Pavlovich - First Deputy Head of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Mikola Tomenko of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. So, the rules, your colleagues, let's see: for the report, up to five minutes, the answers to the questions, three minutes, for the co-reporters, three minutes, discussion, decision-making, 10 minutes. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u67	Honorable Bill of Colleagues! The bill before you has a basic status, it has to determine the basic principles of state policy in the area of information security in Ukraine. The bill is designed to implement article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, ensuring its economic and information security are the most important functions of the State, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. The legal framework governing information security and state security management in the information field requires substantial improvement, interaction, coordination, reconciliation between the Supreme Council, the government and the President. What did we come out of, and what did we consider when preparing the bill? First, the negative trends in Ukraine's information space development, the inefficiency of state information policy, the state of the country's economy create preconditions for the escalation of information security threats in the country. Second, according to some indications, the level of information security in Ukraine is approaching a critical limit, with the loss of democratic principles and principles of state activity. Political developments in our country, especially the latter, indicate that it is the political factors that cause the escalation of the main threats to information security, that call into question the rights of Ukrainian citizens to freedom of expression. First of all, it's the introduction of political censorship, the pressure on the print and electronic media, the political extremism of journalists, the lack of openness of public authorities, the transformation of the media into mass propaganda. Thirdly, unfortunately, the manifestations of political extremism with regard to the media that take forms of physical conflict with journalists are not unique. Most cases of violence against journalists and their deaths have not been revealed by law enforcement agencies. Physical deliberation on journalists reinforces self - censorship, restricts the professional capacity of media representatives. Fourthly, the heavy tax press in the media, the high price of paper, the monopolization of certain types of information services, the limited advertising market and investment, the low payability of the population, are responsible for the non-profitability of the vast majority of the media, especially social and political orientation. This makes it impossible to implement information projects as businesses that are able to make profits. The emergence of new information products in Ukraine is almost always clearly oriented towards political tasks in the interests of founders, curators or financial groups, so virtually all television channels and the vast majority of the media printed are distributed between influential financial and political circles. Fifthly, the low standard of living of Ukrainian citizens limits their access to information. Ukrainian scientists do not have the financial capacity to access Internet resources. The restriction on access to information by the general public causes an internal narrowing of the information space in Ukraine, inhibits the development of the intellectual potential of society. In the information space of Ukraine, there are negative factors, sometimes destructive effects on the social consciousness and mentality of citizens, which enable manipulation of human consciousness and can have negative social consequences. These factors can result in the destruction of moral values, spiritual health, and society. Sixthly, it's an imperfect legal framework that regulates the use of new information technologies and defines new types of crimes committed with them. The numerous facts of violations of existing legislation show that they are ineffective. The real threat to information security in Ukraine is computer crime as a result of weak data protection with limited access and high levels of computer dependence on foreign software manufacturers. Lack of effective prevention, delays in the state’s implementation of appropriate countermeasures lead to a deterioration in Ukraine’s reputation, and financial losses in external economic activity. In this regard, I would like to point out that in most industrialized countries new information weapons are being researched and developed. With this threat, we will still have to fight you. In developed countries, the concept of information war is part of a military doctrine, and you and I don't even have a law on information security. Finally, I fully agree with the fair proposals of scientific experts and members of parliamentary committees who made a number of valid comments to the bill. But all the same, I would ask the Supreme Council to accept this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u68	Give me a chance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u69	In view of the fact that in preparing for 2 readings, all shortcomings can be corrected and all your comments and additions can be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u70	Questions, fellow believers. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali, please, your question. Three minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u71	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Well, first of all, I do have questions. The political situation in the state is changing significantly towards democratization, and you've put the project in a different situation before. It doesn't seem logical to you to take this project and work on it to bring it into line with the new situation. This, I think, would be faster and then you could count on better support. And the second question. Very often, information security is established in many ways. Censorship. So we know, for example, that there's either an iron curtain or information without borders. Nevertheless, from this point of view, how do you view such artificial restrictions on information, particularly on the control of the Internet, which state is trying to implement all the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. The answer to the first question. I think that's very helpful of your advice on what you might want to do right away, but of course I wouldn't want to waste time. I'd like to work on the second reading, take into account all your suggestions, your comments and go through, because if we don't take it now, we're going to lose. Well, one session. And with regard to the artificial limitations of information, I've always been negative about any form of censorship. I think he should be in the country. There must be a clear list of information that contains a state secret that can threaten the interests of the state, and everything else -- the more our citizens know, the more openness to the work of the government, of the local authorities, of all other institutions, the better for the state, because it creates, let's say, a need to listen to the citizens of officials. And secondly, the more openness, the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u73	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Rodion, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u75	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u76	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear reporter! I have a question, but the impression of this law is that “they were mixed up in a heap of horses, men. ” Yeah? Absolutely and rightly, the observation of the Scientific and Expert Office "to work out." It's all there. And the question is. Do you think there's a law in which countries in another country that you want to introduce -- "national security"? That's the first one. The other one. There's a national information space. Please tell me, could there be a national multiplication table?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u77	Thank you so much for your interesting question. For the "national multiplication table" or not, the national information space is not exactly the spheres that intersect. And it's not really that question, I'm sorry. Because there's so much involved in this law. You see, 20 years ago, when this law was put under consideration, there was no subject of research or settlement at all. Today it's so large a layer completely unregulated by any legislation, so it looks a little mixed up. Just that. I think this law will work out after we've adopted with you a few more calls from the Supreme Council, because it's such a dynamic sphere, it's so constantly in a state of change. But we need to lay the groundwork for regulating this. There is experience in other countries, both the adoption of a single law to regulate the security of information space and the adoption of many separate laws, which then, well. they're sort of systematized. We have chosen a more perfect, more orderly course with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u78	Yes. Thank you, time's up. Please sit down, Victor Dmitrovich. Thank you, Victor Dmitriovich. Yes. Boris, well, it's time we asked. First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Andresuk Boris Pavlovich, please
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u79	In accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council, the National Security and Defence Committee of November 17 discussed the draft submitted by the national deputy Cyril at its meeting. I would like to point out that the bill drafted for the implementation of Article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, ensures its economic and information security are the most important functions of the State, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. The Committee supported in principle the conceptual idea on the basis of the tasks set out in the draft law on the provision of legal bases for information security in Ukraine, the creation of a climate conducive to democracy and the provision of guarantees for the development and protection of human interests, rights and freedoms. We can be honest that today's state administration of information security requires substantial improvement, interaction, coordination and harmonization within Parliament, the President of the 100th Government. That, in our view, was the main purpose of drafting this bill, but I would like to say frankly that there were a number of important points to the bill when we considered the committee's meeting. Well, first of all, really today we can't help but support those critical remarks that the bill duplicates the basic positions of the existing laws, such as, say, the foundations of Ukraine's national security, where the basic orientations of Ukraine's information security are already conceptually defined. It also duplicates some of the provisions of the Information Security Act in Ukraine, so there is a question. We have fully agreed, the Committee I mean, with those observations that we have, in our opinion, expressed in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority. At the same time, the committee, when considering our colleague's bill, supported the bill as a whole, taking into account the fact that the National Security Committee, together with the drafter of the bill, had committed itself to a substantial revision of the bill, taking into account the critical observations of the Scientific and Experimental Administration, the individual deputies, the committees. And so, by accepting it in the first reading, to offer it then for consideration by the Supreme Council in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Boris Pavlovich. Please, a question. Three minutes. Sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, don't the committee know that there's an Information Act, which is another law that was passed all year ago, where it was possible to ensure the security of the state, where it could be made a separate chapter of this conclusion? Didn't the committee see that this law, especially in article 10, in other articles, provides for the authority of the President, the Supreme Council, the Supreme Court, all the courts and so forth? Unless the committee saw whether there were any experts or what the committee secretariat was doing, missing a document that, I'm pretty sure, would get up to a hundred votes today, I'm sure, up to a hundred. Well, I'm just wondering why that's how the committee concludes. I would like to hear your personal point of view, I emphasize, personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u82	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I reported the position of the committee, which. and made all those critical remarks that were made by the committee. I personally share your point of view with regard to the bill under consideration. Indeed, it is conceptually today that the bill is intended to resolve, as set out in the Information Security Act of Ukraine today, and in the Law on the Fundamentals of National Security and Defence. But today, the subject of the legislative initiative cannot be banned from expanding significantly in view of the situation that we have today in the information market and Ukraine, and the world in this regard. We see today how this sphere develops. And these laws that he spoke of, they only framed the issue. And what the author really duplicates in this law today is most of the position and Constitution, which defines, let's say, the mandate of the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers in this law -- that's exactly what you're saying. That's why we're saying that the bill needs substantial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u84	Thank you. I have a question. In the preparation of any bill, the entire legislative base of our country and our neighbours, both from the East and the West, is being worked out. Please tell us, what laws of European, American, or Russian origin are there, or have they studied these laws? If so, how have we used or not the experience of our neighbors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Of course, this question was more of a question for the author, since he was preparing what experience he had learned. As far as I know, the Western experience of this Information Security Act of the State is clear in a fairly developed European state. The only thing I said was that in 2003 you and I adopted the National Security Fundamentals Act of Ukraine, where in the seventh article of this law we only framed the foundations of national security in the economic and information sphere. Moreover, article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine also provides a framework, in two words, only that this area should be regulated by law. That's what I think when I look at this issue on the committee and this bill. We came from the fact that the body of the legislative initiative, the national deputy, was entitled to the basis of the 17th article of the Constitution and the seventh article of the Ukrainian National Security Act, had the right to draft the document. But thinking that he was more eloquent today. We believe that he needs substantial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u86	Yes, thank you, Boris Pavlovich. Time's up. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we need to maintain the consolidation of Parliament at all times, so I have debated with my Communist colleagues on this Law. And what I'm saying is, paradoxically, I would say, I'm signing practically every word of Victor Dmitrovich Kirilov that he said. His concern for information space, but it turned out that this Law, in principle, had nothing to do with what he was saying, since the idea in the law was that fragments were taken from various active laws and broken under the general name of information security. And the paradox is that in fact most of these things are already written in either the Information Act, or the Information Program, or the State Secret Act, and so on. The tragedy is that no one is going to do this today. So today we have plenty of reasons, for example, if we analyze what happened during the election campaign. We have no criminal case, and there is no court case, such as the outbreak of national hostility. Neither the National Television and Radio Board, nor the State Committee on Television, Radio, nor the Public Prosecutor’s Office have opened the case. Do we have no grounds for law enforcement? There are legislative reasons. I went to the D.A.'s office: on what grounds did the Crucifixion Department hang materials that fueled international hostility? The Attorney General's Office has been actively searching for and has not found any of the employees of the Railroads who have posted this. The question is, did some UFO hang millions of tickets in railways? They didn't find any men. Thus, it is not the Information Security Act, but the enforcement of the laws of all officials can provide this information security. There's an age of ideas here that's very clear on the logic of our media-legislature structure, either change to the information law, and you don't need anything new that falls within, let's say, the information program that our fraternal committee, for example, science and education or national security, should do. Thus, our position, our committee, is as follows: Such a special, unified global and strategic law, unfortunately, does not solve the problem. So it solves the problems of clarifying the rules of existing laws and solves the problem of responsibility, control and enforcement. So our proposal is this: we respect that serious material is done, but we would still like these proposals to be recast accordingly, and everything that concerns comments on the current information law to be made as a reference to the information law. As for warnings, specific suggestions for local self - government authorities should be passed on. And in general, such a law is not necessary in our opinion, and the position of our committee will be a deviation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please put the name of the national MPs who signed up to participate in the debate. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. We've agreed, dear colleagues, 10 minutes. Yes, until a recess to complete the consideration of this matter. Prepare Yuri Petrovich Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u89	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! He was absolutely right to report the situation now to the head of the Committee on Freedom of speech for Mikola Tomenko. Right because there are laws both on the basis of national security and defence and on information. And this project is absolutely declarant, it contains no standards that can be applied in practice and, in fact, provide information security for the state, it contains duplication of norms that already exist, including in the Constitution of Ukraine. For implementation, I'm just going to show you who didn't read this law, article 10 of this law, which says, "The information security system of Ukraine is in accordance with the Constitution. President of Ukraine." And "supplies" half-pages. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is all over the page it's doing. The National Security Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Security Service, the Ministry, the local administrations, the law enforcement agencies, the courts of general jurisdiction are conducting judicial proceedings in the field of information relations, the Attorney General's Office is overseeing and the citizens of Ukraine are doing this, that is. Why would you do that? This was not necessary, and the committee had to stop it. The name of the project, its purpose, as defined in the article, does not correspond to its content, since in definition and purpose, the name refers to the information security of Ukraine, while the text gives much attention to the direction of public information policy and the issue of information space, that is, matters that are governed by a completely different law. There is a misunderstanding in article 24: "Friendship in the Information Security of Ukraine," because there is no separate judiciary in information security or in the sphere of environmental security, for example. Judiciality is only one thing and is carried out in the same way throughout the state. The law does not deserve further criticism. It should be sent for further processing. And it is better to do as Boris Andressuk advised us, in a private way. What I'd like to say is that today, really, concerns the security of Ukraine, is that all the heads of the Ukooppilka government of Ukraine are now being gathered to make an urgent sale of all the movable and immovable property at the disposal of the head of the government of Babanko. Everything goes on as it does in the government. Land cruisers are sold in the government for $10,000 when they're worth 50-60 cars, and everything else my colleagues Bondarenko and others have been talking about today. The Attorney General, Mr. Piscoon, wake up, wake up! Let's go to the President's Administration, to the government, see what's being sold out! This national acquisition is being distributed to the people today, all of which are being done in the last days, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u90	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I have carefully studied this bill, even with pleasure, consulted with experts and have reached that conclusion. The bill is absolutely necessary. Similar bills exist in neighbouring states, and I will stress that if the drafters of the bill and members of the profiling committee do not know about it, the Russian Federation information security doctrines were approved by the President of the Russian Federation on 9 September 2000 and the draft Belarus Information Security Act. That is, experience is also needed not only in our country, our country, but also in neighboring states in post - Soviet space, which are objects of information aggression by other nations. I just want to do two more lines. Article 2 of the Information Security of Ukraine states that protection against the manipulation of information and disinformation and the effects on the consciousness, subconscious and mentality of both the individual and society as a whole is necessary. Back in the 20's last century, the American "pioneers" were manipulating. have formulated rules for the management of public opinion. They have determined that the psychology of the crowd, or Maidan, in our modern language, is built not on thought, but on emotion. Since the crowd, or Majdan, has no brain, the motivation for the actions of the crowd, or Midan, should be built not on logic, but on form and presentation. Form, bag, flag, tape - everything, content - nothing! That's exactly what we saw during what happened on the Main Independence Day. And another line. Article 6 "Ukrainian National Security Threat". It is claimed that attempts to manipulate public consciousness, such as by spreading unreliable information, incomplete information, or biased information, should be stopped. How many channels do we have? 666 slippery news channels. As Iraq was said to be armed with mass trauma, and now information has come out that "the weapons of mass injury in Iraq stopped in the past month." Did the United States and the Spanish who supported them leave Iraq? No, it's not. We tricked the whole world, including our Ukraine, and we paid for it with the lives of 17 of our countrymen. And the last. Supplement to Article 19 "Limiting rights and freedoms of information subjects": "The grounds for restricting rights, freedoms in the information sphere are: first, the interests of national security and civil society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u92	Have a seat, please. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u93	Ten seconds. The protection of public morality, health, human rights and freedoms and the citizen, the introduction of military and state of emergency and other grounds established by law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u94	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u95	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! In 1989, Boris Yeltsin, who was then chairman of the Committee on Architecture and Construction, and of whom I was a member from Ukraine, then we listened to the minister of finance, Paulov, you may recall. And Yeltsin asked him, "Tell me, Mr. Pavlov, how many banks are there in the USSR?" Paul resisted, stuttered, and groaned. What did Yeltsin say, "Remember, Mr. Pavlov, the banks need as much as they need." And I was right. I'm leading this to say that no matter how many drafts are proposed, which are about defending human rights, defending national interests, defending freedom of speech, defending Ukraine's national security, there will never be a lot of them. This is a fundamental question, and I would like to thank the colleague of Cyril, who once again put this subject, as it were, on the legislative notes. And I'm convinced that this law is caused by the situation in Ukraine today, because it's not in vain, look at its basic, so to speak, supporting points of this law. On the one hand, the political orientation of the media institutions and the formation of public opinion under the administrative influence of public authorities, or under the economic influence of commercial or criminal structures, is literally the answer to a situation that we can still, even less now, in these days. But you and I have been through a lot lately. So this law really is the answer to the painful topics, the painful problems of our so - called Ukrainian life today. I'm convinced that we have to split up, I don't insist, but it's my personal opinion, to separate the direction of state information policy, to be, to stand apart from Ukraine's national security. It's a different complex, different clusters of issues that need to be dealt with, and I'm inclined to think of my colleague, Mikli Tomenka, that, in fact, the problems lie in another, it's really an honest movement of the MP's soul, so I would say, but the problems lie in another, we have a sufficient legislative base, it's just nobody to do, that's what it is. And I want to go to the Attorney General with this half minute. Don't you know, the favor of the Piscoon, the fact that they're sitting in Ukoscibenko, he's never allowed this law to be reworked, I've been fighting against this law since the first call. Now the remains of this Ukopolsci property, which is also a transit point at the Gontovka station, are being transported to Russia today, exported a lot of property and documents without even checking any documents. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u96	Yes. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please note and prepare for the vote, the Committee proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian Information Security Act, registration number 5732. Do we have any objection to making the right decision now? So please, Your Honor, there will be a vote now. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, first of all, I am very grateful for the great attention that you have given to this bill and I want to say two things. First. If this law increases information security in our country by at least one point, if it at least increases freedom of speech, it should be adopted in the first reading, regardless of its specific perfection. And second. I promise you, let's take it on the first reading and then all those who want to make adjustments will make it. I'm going to try to count them so that we can create an effective law with you. Thank you for your attention. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the motion for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Ukrainian Information Security Act. [[Registration number 5732]] Please vote. Vote. Vote. Mikola Denisovich, why did you speak so they wouldn't vote? [[12:01:19]] For-179 The decision is not taken. What's to read again, huh? There is a proposal to send the draft Ukrainian Information Security Act to Ukraine for re-reading. [[Registration number 5732]] Please vote. To 212. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. So, what are we going to do for a break? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we will continue our sessions. Let's go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the payment of a single or fixed tax, as well as insurance contributions to the general government social security and state pension insurance by entities with simplified systems of taxation and reporting. Bill 6477 registration number. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:32:35]] For-97 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 77, Communists - 2, “Ukraine” - 3, National Agrarian Party - 0, Social Democrats - 0, “Ukraine” - 1, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 12, “Urban” - 0, NDP - 0, “Soyuz” - 0, “Deminicatives” - 0, “Centre” - 0, “Postfactionary - 2. Please sign up, three minutes, with a motive. Please explain. Tomenko, Belarus. Tomenko Pinzenik, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u100	Yeah. Victor Pinzenik, please pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u101	Pinzenic microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u102	Victor Pinzenik, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Honorable National MPs. I want to draw your attention to this bill because it's about correcting an error, one of the mistakes made in the adoption of the Budget Act. According to which this standard of budget is paid twice by fixed-unit taxpayers to the Pension Fund as part of a fixed tax and twice as a separate tax. And we have to solve this problem. And the bill that we have just voted to include is aimed at eliminating double taxation of small businesses. I ask my colleagues to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u103	Yes, please, Belarus. He's behind him, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u104	Please give the floor to the National MP, School Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u105	Please, the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u106	Thank you. I would like to point out that it was at the time of Janukovitch’s government’s budget that there was a so - called mistake when fixed tax payers were forced to pay the tax twice. And that's quite clear why when Janukovich's team, which is represented in the Supreme Council, doesn't vote in favour of this bill, because their task -- the worse, the better. But first of all, I wanted them to think about this taxpayer's fixed tax. It's a small enterprise that makes up the salt of any state. And in order to develop this small enterprise, we need to vote on this bill. Do not be associated with the saboteurs who are present in this Parliament, who have come here only to muddy water, for this gives them pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u107	Well, don't blame your colleagues, because they're exactly the same people's deputies as you. And everyone has a right of opinion. Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u108	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u109	Shurma's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u110	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to talk to our colleagues who should be a little bit tolerant when they talk about sabotage. How do you figure out the number 94, which is the pro? It is understandable, though, that someone wants to stand up for his own interests. And I would like to point out that employees who work for natural and legal persons who pay single or fixed taxes will lose some of their pension rights. The employer will only pay their pension insurance premiums on a minimum basis, which will make it impossible for them to continue taking into account all the income earned in the calculation of pensions. This will result in almost all employees receiving a minimum pension by age, regardless of the salary they receive. And in the end, the budget for the Pension Fund is going to be down to 522 million. So 94 votes is this real need that wants to make changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u111	Yes, thank you, it's done. Sadly, the question is not included in the order of the day. He's listening. We do, Your Honor. There's a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax, registration number 6411. [[on academic pay]] Again, this is the situation. We have to put it in the agenda first, then, if we include it, we'll discuss it. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. [[on academic pay]] Project registration number 6411. Please vote. [[12:38:01]] For 105 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, "Ukrainian Regions" - 42, Communist faction - 20, National Agrarian Party - 0, SDPU - 2, "One Ukraine" - 5, "SPU - 7, "Timoshenko Block - 18, "Trud Ukraine-DPP" - 2, "Soyuz" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Centre" - 0, "Prefactionary - 7. Yes, questions are not included in the agenda. Work. We move to the procedure for reviewing the draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. [[on holidays]] Here we have 3199, 3199-1, 3199-2, 5207 and 6345. Please, according to the First Bill of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The days of memory of Ukrainian candlelight, Taras Shevchenk — traditionally celebrated with the arrival of spring — have long been a sign of our society. It took a long time for us to have these solemn days as a national festival. This is especially timely and timely today when a new Ukraine faces all mankind. It will be just and symbolic if every spring of the new Ukraine begins in Shevchenk’s day. Turning to the sources of our spirituality, we are constantly convinced of the strength and vitality of its Shewchen domain. The genius of Shewchenka, indeed, the great apostle of the Ukrainian spirit, demonstrated to the world the key: the inability of this spirit, its ability to perceive the challenges of time. The greatest challenge is the ability to form a nation and a state. And today we've found that the ideals of language and culture were defined by Chewchen's prophecy, and we've been able to create them. The proclamation of the 9th March - birthday of Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk - the official national celebration will not only honor his holy name, the tribute to the memory of the Ukrainian prophet and genius, but will fully promote the development of the patriotic and state consciousness of Ukrainian citizens, which is important to us in today’s conditions, the consolidation of the entire Ukrainian society, the strengthening of the statehood and the promotion of the international image of Ukraine. Such a celebration will serve as a kind of impetus to the formation of that spiritual pole, which is commonly called the "national idea". Legally, the bright image of Taras Shevchenk has always been and is, is and will be placed in the ages as a sanctuary for the Ukrainian people. So let's do a good and noble thing by supporting the proposed bill. I'd like to conclude with the words of our colleague Leonid Cherniewecki. Unfortunately, he's gone now, which is always like, "Dear MPs! Dear friends! That's it. It's a good law, it's a good law. It will serve the consolidation of our society." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u113	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich. So, bill number 3199-1, here are the drafters of the bill Tarasyuk, Kenzier, Tanjuk. Anybody there? Boris Ivanovich! Boris Ivanovich, please report your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The project is proposed to complete the holiday list and to establish January 22 as a national festival. What is January 22 for all of us in Ukraine? In 1918 -- I quote -- "the age-old dreams that lived and died of the better sons of Ukraine came true." This is from the 4th Universal, when the Central Council approved it and according to this Universal, the only independent Ukraine was declared. In 1919 a decision was made on this day to unify the two parts of Ukraine - Western and Eastern, separated by the historic gulf. In 1990, Ukraine’s People’s Movement launched a lively chain of connections to spread across Ukraine, and it launched the first major strike on the totalitarian chain that surrounded the entire territory of our nation. The establishment of a special day to symbolize the unity and unity of the Ukrainian people is particularly relevant today, taking into account the recent criminal statements made by individual politicians promoting secessionism and encroaching on Ukraine’s territorial integrity. I believe that the establishment of Ukraine's Day of Assembly by the Supreme Council just before January 22 was a few days away, could be a symbolic tribute to all of our predecessors of the early 20th century and to the contemporaries of the 1990s who chose Ukraine's independence and dreamed of Ukraine's constituency. On January 22, 1919, State Secretary Zuner Letin Zigelsky, speaking on the Sofia field, said: "It is such a date that Ukrainian children of coming generations will memorize it, on the other hand, dates such as the date of baptism to the Russians." I am convinced that the Supreme Council is in a position to perpetuate this date for all future generations of Ukrainians. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that, with regard to this bill, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is the same as the conclusion in relation to the February 23 project. But I would like to draw your attention to some prejudice on the part of the Directorate-General regarding our bill, which contains a missing phrase that is present on February 23rd, which, as a result of the first reading of the bill, is appropriate to accept as a basis for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u115	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Please, the bill is presented by Oksana Bilozer. Get ready for Cyril.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u116	I propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Labour Code to establish a Mother's Day on May 8th. Even though we are dealing with different political parties, we have different views, we have different visions of Ukraine’s future development, we have some common ideals and things that unite us. To my great conviction, the ideal for each of us is the mother, the woman who has given us life, whose holy image has accompanied us with you all our lives. The attitude towards a mother determines the level of social development. It is the mother who is responsible for the family’s order, health, and joy of her children. For a mother, all children are equal, and that's where social justice came from. All must be equal before the Law, in a developed society, motherly care for children, mother work is defined as socially important and prestigious, unfortunately in Ukraine this is not yet observed. But motherly concern for children depends on what our entire society will be, and the future of mankind depends on the spiritual condition of the woman mother. The state in which a woman mother is assigned a fundamental social role has a high perspective, in which people have prosperity and happiness, people have dignity and respect for other people. As we honor our mother, so do we. In Ukraine, the mother's long-standing concern has been defined as the highest virtue, and this has brought honor to the family, to the community, to the whole nation. Mother, the image of the mother of the orant with her hands raised to the sky became a symbol of Ukraine. My introduction to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine is relevant, given that we have a celebration dedicated to a woman like March 8th, because it does not bring such a meaningful and emotional strain as to reflect to some extent the special status of a woman mother on May 8th as an official State holiday. The bill establishes a compensatory mechanism in connection with the introduction of another holiday day. The rate of reduction in the number of weekends in the event that two holidays, or non-working days, coincide with two weekends, is important in the context of ensuring a stable socio-economic development of the state and the real economy of the budget, since the situation of the whole country celebrating and actually resting half-life is not normal from an economic point of view. Dear friends, May 9th we all celebrate Victory Day. 8, 9, 10 is always our day off, remember all the years. Thus, on May 8, we will fill this weekend with spiritual content, go and greet our mother. We will cultivate the worship of the family in Ukraine as the bricks of the state. Please support and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u117	Thank you, Oksana Volodymyr. I invite you to the floor of People's Deputy Kirill Viktor Dmitrovitch. Please. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I really like the fact that we already have a few laws in which we raise the role of women in society. Women have a holiday on March 8th, and today our distinguished colleague has offered, and I hope that the Mother's Day Act will be passed, and I suggest you at least raise our gender policy a little bit. I suggest we create at least one day off, to which the majority of the male half of our country is fully related. Many of us have served in the army, it doesn't matter whether it's an army of the former Soviet Union, or it's an army of the independent Ukraine, I propose to create all of us a favorite day on February 23, to make it a holiday day without work. In order to avoid any political discoloration on this issue, I propose that he wears such a beautiful, popular name as Motherland Defender's Day, Fatherland Defender's Day. It's going to be a real holiday when we meet, talk to each other, talk to each other about how interesting, fun we've had a school of courage with you, serving in lava in the army, protecting our homeland. I find my offer totally acceptable. I'll be very surprised if we don't support it. Yes, there is some denial from the point of view that this could lead to a reduction in revenue to the budget. Yeah, another weekend. But let's remember, this is the same day in the labor groups that everyone celebrates, very few people work real. And that's why we need to make this official. I mean, it has to be legalized. And I hope that we will take this action with you to serve the further unification of our society on the basis of democratization and further progress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, the word is Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for the Stone Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u120	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. On February 1, 2000, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Ukrainian House adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, in which, contrary to the opinion of the majority of the population, the 7th and 8th November annuals of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution were excluded from the list of holidays. The public's reaction has not been overturned. On February 29, the third gathering of Ukrainian veterans was held in Kiev, bringing together 14 million of our fellow citizens. The same ones that protected our homeland from German-Fashite invaders in the Great Homeland War. Paragraph 9 stressed: On behalf of the multimillion - dollar organization of war veterans, labor, military service, internal affairs agencies, the assembly called for the immediate lifting of the Supreme Council’s decree of February 1st on the removal from the holiday calendar of the seventh and eighth November of the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, preventing the abuse of the country’s history by the older generations of our people. It is fitting to say that it is from this very date that the independence of modern Ukraine is coming. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not require a third meeting of the Ukrainian veterans’ organization to be called upon by a group of national deputies to draft a bill, registration number 6064, dated September 12, 2000. This bill was supported by the Social Policy and Labour Committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, he had his first lively discussion. A vote on the bill to amend article 73 took place on November 15, 2001, but it did not receive the required number of votes. This was the opinion of the people, especially the veteran community, with their elected representatives to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the insistent request of the veteran public, the bill was reintroduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Solomatin on August 19, 2000, registration number 2068. He went through the whole procedure again, but unfortunately he did not regain the required number of votes. Now on time to return to the mentioned question and at the request of Ukrainian citizens to make a balanced decision on this subject, to restore historical justice and to return on November 7 and 8, to the anniversary of the Great Yellow, to the holiday days, to those days that mark the independence of Ukraine, which came from this stormy date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u121	From the committee’s profile, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, our colleagues have introduced draft laws that provide for an additional six holidays. So these are the days when Ukrainian citizens will not work. And if these days coincide with the weekends, according to our laws, it is another six extra weekends. So, almost two weeks of celebration. In addition, in January each year we celebrate almost a week, in May almost 10 days, there are other festivals. And so today we have only a holiday day for over a month. So it is urgent that the Supreme Council adopt a law on working days in Ukraine, for they will soon be gone, and everything else will be celebrated. Of course, understanding that these bills that our colleagues are introducing are weighty, they really celebrate something else. The committee had no right to dismiss them. We bring them to the Supreme Council for judgment, so all the bills are accepted by our committee as a basis. We need to be clear in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u123	Yes, dear fellows, let's do this. We need to talk. Do those who have signed up for the discussion insist? They insist. Okay. So let's do it this way: let's finish this question, because we're going to go to the Miscellaneous at 13 and then when we finish this question, we're going to go to the Miscellaneous. Is there no objection? Please, Karmazin, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u124	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I understand the indignation of National Deputy Stoyan, who said that it was necessary to pass the law on working days, because right away six days of unemployed people could not be added to the state. Obviously, the committee had to decide what priorities to give. Priorities should evidently come from the fact that Ukraine is an independent, sovereign state. And in view of this, the bill that was reported at number 6345 of the MPs' group, where 7 and 8 November is the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, which according to many of the old textbooks was called that, and now in Europe, otherwise than the "Yellow Revolution" is not called, is that Ukraine is an independent and sovereign state, and that is when the growth of the sovereignty that it was about, and this is a holiday of a completely different state, why are we not celebrating the Day of the Paris Communion, not making it a holiday? Well, let's do it, but let's not do anything. That's why it's falling off. Next. As head of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland, I am very pleased to see that there is, is offered the Day of Protector of the Motherland. Perhaps, though, that is not the case with having an extra weekend. Perhaps it is an honorable duty for every citizen to carry out that protection around, and even when they do not criminally want to register my decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the appointment and election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Kovalenko, deputy Medvedchuk, and Stryzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u125	Please, on the subject of holidays.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u126	I mean, it's not like they're doing it right now, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u127	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u128	That's why I'm speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u129	Yuri Anatolyevich, please use reliable information. No direction was given and will not be given by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. So hold on to any order if you have it. Finish up, but on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u130	Adam Ivanovich, thank you so much if you give the instruction to multiply as required by the Rules. But it is my right to demand and your right to ensure. If you don't, I'm telling you, you don't have to blame me for the mess. Do you understand? I demand execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u131	Please, Puzakov. He's behind him, Chernewsky. Well, finish up, but on the subject, I say again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u132	No, it's okay. You take my words and then you take them. Adam Ivanovich! Now I'm simplifying the position of the committee. Thus, the "protectors of the Motherland" believe that we do not need the weekend of the protector of the Motherland. It's enough that he's such a day and he's determined. This is no longer necessary for three days. As for the Day of Assembly of Ukraine, the Day of Shevchenkov and Mother’s Day, introduced by Oksana, there is a need to support them. They're celebrating, Mother's Day, all over the world, civilized, all over Europe. And we're also in the center of Europe, as the orange revolution has now shown. And what Shevchenko did for us to think about just once must also be done on the weekend. And I share the idea that to think about what the gathering of Ukraine is, those who are making projects today on celebrating celebrations in another country, on January 22, they should remember that it is a holiday and that it is to be remembered by those generations who will come: both our children and our grandchildren and our great - grandchildren. Thank you for your attention. And to you, Adam Ivanovich, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u133	Slippery. Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u134	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Constitution of Ukraine provides that the State promotes the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness, tradition and culture. If so, where is the consolidation? Because during 13 years of independence in Ukraine, with the coming of a new power, the blood and the flesh of the tradition of the people are being destroyed, historical monuments are being destroyed, the violent history of Ukraine’s development as a nation. For example, consider this fact. November 7th. It is a day that marked all the progressive people of the world. This includes the Ukrainian people. This day brought people freedom, the right to work, education, and rest. This day has given birth to a new person, a new formation, socialism. There's no children for you, gentlemen. But this system was one of the best and most progressive, so this day for many peoples of Ukraine became one of the great festivals that was traditionally celebrated on November 7 and 8. This is our story. Today’s veterans paid a particularly high price for this day. But the authorities took that day away from them, in flagrant violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. The Communists repeatedly called on the Supreme Council to enter the calendar of the festival days and the day of November 7. And I ask you to uphold the law of National Deputy Solomatin Yuri Petrovich on the approval of the National Day of November 7. This will be the establishment of a constitutional position in the Ukrainian society, which will help to raise the patriotism of Ukrainian citizens, thereby perpetuating the courage, courage and heroism of our people, which have been shown to protect the interests and rights of their people. New creators of independent Ukrainian history, introducing innovations, have forgotten the glorious traditions of their people, destroy everything created by the older generation, but nothing is done except renamings. One who cares only for himself changes the names of cities, villages, streets; and one who cares for the future builds schools, cities, kindergartens, paves the way for a happy future. On behalf of the Communists of the older generation, I ask and warn you, be careful in your actions, be truthful, watch out, and multiply the glorious history of your state. So I ask again on behalf of the Communists, the veterans of Ukraine on November 7th to consider it a national holiday and bring it to the calendar of the State Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u135	Chernewsky. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u136	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to be an economist today because I have been working in the real economy for 14 years. Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. And I'll tell you what. First of all, Ukraine is one of the first places in the number of days that we are not working, and this is causing irreparable damage to the economy, it is damaging to the budget, it is damaging to the unprotected sectors of the population, including those who are necessarily celebrating and the day of the Socialist Revolution, it is not a problem. I am opposed to adding one more day to the holidays, because we are going even ahead of the last Africa of the country, although I do not want to call those countries, because it will be very much like the Papuan Power. We are looking for Europe. Take any of those who proposed the bill, how many days in Europe? And let's put it together, given what we're saying, we're going to make the number of days we need to celebrate. But I personally support Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. It's very noble to celebrate the day of a man who ever dreamed of Ukraine, of an independent one, when even the dream of it was forbidden. It was very good for Oksana Bilozir and it is true that women must be protected and generally should know that they are respected in the country and, of course, that there are seniors, but it is harmful to the economy. And considering any of these days as a holiday, not a worker, without taking all the rest of the days into account, is harmful. More, well, there's nothing here because we're in the day, I'll tell you, well, maybe a billion and two, that's the first thing you have to ask those who represent the government today. But there are things that are more important than the day of celebrations, for example, I have proposed a law that women who have children should pay the State, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u137	Yes. Thank you, please, Mironenko Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u138	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, respected people's deputies, respected Adam Ivanovich. There are different positions in any State, but there is respect for history and positions in a State that wishes to call itself civilized. In Britain, there are two monuments of Cromwell and the King who fought against it. And people treat both the King and Cromwell with respect, not one monument is destroyed, although there are supporters of both the King and Cromwell. France observed annual Bastille Day, the day that marked the huge number of revolutions in France, and as a result of more than half of the French population, the French male population was killed. However, this day is being observed because it was progress, it was a movement forward from feudalism to even capitalism, but it was a movement forward on the road to progress. On 7 November 1917, we had the Great October Socialist Revolution. And no one can deny the importance of it because we all know, and Ukraine has received, became a republic thanks to the Great October Socialist Revolution, it has become a consummate, united. All the territories were united by socialist orientation, internationalism, friendship of peoples. The Socialist Ukraine, along with the Socialist Russia and other republics, won a major victory in the Great Homeland War. You can't throw that away. A strong economy has been created. Everyone knows the first major power plant in Europe, Dneproges, was built in socialism. You can't help but admit it. A powerful economy, which the right-wings compared fairly with the French economy. But we stress that it was socialist, and that must also be taken into account. Free health care and education, the whole world has taken it from us, as well as planning, regulating the economy. It is important to take into account the fact that on 7 November it is necessary to restore it as a holiday. It must be borne in mind that a great culture has been created, which unfortunately is now being destroyed. First place in the world, due to socialist orientation, Ukrainian education has also taken over the social protection of the population. Let us, therefore, treat our fellow countrymen with great respect. The Third Veterans' Assembly has called on the President, and you, the distinguished people's deputies, to restore the celebration on November 7th. Please consider this, treat our older generation with respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u139	Wait, please. For reasons of voting here we still have registered. One minute at a time. Please, Gerasimov. After him, Chubarov. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u140	Communist Party, Gerasimov. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected voters. On 1 February 2000, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending article 73 of the Labour Code, which, contrary to the ideas and aspirations of most of the population, was excluded from the list of holidays of the anniversary of the Great October Socialist Revolution on 7-8 November. The greater humiliation of older people is hard to imagine. The reaction of public indignation to this illegal solution was expressed in thousands of letters and telegrams sent to the addresses of public authorities, public and political organizations. The Bureau of the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, the largest organization of veterans, the largest public organization of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u141	Thank you, Ivan Alexandrovich. Thank you. Please, Chubarov, one minute. Finish Ivan Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u142	Dear People's Deputies, I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, respectable, I ask you, let's do whatever is proposed here, I think it's a very good offer, let's vote for everything and make a legitimate decision, give a gift to the older generation. You're grandparents! Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u143	Please. Chubarov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u144	I personally have no doubt that such glorious dates as Taras Shevchenk's birthday should be defined in Ukrainian legislation. Also very well is the offer of colleague Oksana Bilozer to restore the ancient tradition of Ukrainian and other ethnicities living in Ukraine -- to mark the role of mother. But I want to insist once again on how he spoke about it a few days ago because we are obliged to approach in a comprehensive manner all the dates that are now anchored in the current legislation as well as those that are being proposed. I want to draw your attention to the fact that the important thing is that these dates did not divide people especially in areas such as religious, ethnic. That's why I think we have to take the same approach to dates that have religious coloring. I think the principle of most of these cases is just inappropriate. So I would think that all of these bills, they would have to look at the comet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u145	Yes, dear colleagues, I see, dear colleagues, I am very pleased with your activity. Your activity is very encouraging. So let's do it this way: let's put your hands down, put them on the buttons, let's put them on the voices. Let's write down who wants to participate. Yeah, let's take five minutes. Kulczynski, followed by Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u146	Dear people's deputies, there can be no doubt about us, too, because the moods in the Ukrainian society are such that the days of November 7-8 go into the distant past and have nothing to do with Ukrainian history. And accordingly this is not respect for the older generation this is all the past, and Ukraine is moving rapidly forward, and we have our history, our vision of these festivals, which are the foundation of the spiritual life of the Ukrainian people. So these days -- January 22nd, Mother's Day, Taras Shevchenk's Birthday -- they organize the lives of all Ukrainian society, and they have to be celebrated as the most important days in Ukraine. And at the same time, let's say, there's no doubt that, as far as the Ukrainian tradition goes, you have to set up the Day of Fatherland's Protector, but not on February 23rd, but as in Ukraine of the beginning, on Mother's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u147	Yes, please, Loboda, follow him, Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u148	I beg you to give Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u149	Please, Dry Mike, behind him, Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I'd like to remind you, maybe you've been listening to a speech by the head of the subcommittee. The Committee on Social Policy recommended supporting Bill 3199-2 on Mother’s Day, and the committee proposed to support Bill 6345 - Revolution Day. I don't agree that it's an insult, as the economist used to say. the economic sector. I propose by vote that these bills be put to the vote with the following amendments: Workers' International Solidarity Day - May 1st, Revolution Day - November 7th. We're saving the day -- first, and secondly, like the political elite of the Ukrainian people, we're going to show our willingness to consolidate society and we're going to drop all suspicion of some political rematch. Let's put all these bills with the changes I've made out of my voice and vote with a package.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u151	Please, Shevchuk, follow him Granowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u152	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the drafters of the bill, especially the representatives of the factions of our Ukraine: what was the orange revolution for in our country? It's impressive, considering the number of bills presented by this faction, that in order for us to celebrate, celebrate, drink in the following year and years, we can come up with a lot of reasons for that. I just want to remind you that after "Solidarity" won in Poland, the main call was to work, not to celebrate. And you seem to be able to destroy the spirit that the Ukrainian people displayed, the celebration of Mother’s Day, and the day of another. I have to say that in Europe, besides Mother's Day, there's still Father's Day, because there's gender equality. Even so, the father plays an important role in a family of Ukrainian, strong, and dependable families. So let's stop this and think about how to reduce the number of unemployed, holiday days.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u153	Granowski. After him, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u155	Please, Shurmi microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u156	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, there are eight weekends in our country. Please tell me if there is still a state in the world where there are eight weekends. Moreover, there are religious festivals today, there are 74 Johns per year. We have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas week. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u157	Turn off the microphone. The thing is, Granowski's gone, they say. Show me Granowski, then we'll move on. Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u158	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear fellow national MPs, let's give up the batch vote, because we see it doesn't do any good. But we can objectively appreciate the events that took place in Ukraine. The socialist revolution -- it changed the world, it changed not the Soviet Union, it also made the Ukrainian nation educated, written, a state that has its own spaceships. And that's why he made the revolution a social Europe. And we should appreciate it. As for Mother’s Day, Father’s Day, Grandmother’s Day, it seems to me that an adequate assessment should be made. Some festivals should then be abandoned. Otherwise, we're going to lead to the fact that we're only going to celebrate, and the economy is going to suffer the damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Please Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Policy Tótkin Vladimir Ivanovich, one minute. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The government does not support any of the bills that foresee an increase in the number of days off. This is caused by the operation of article 67 and, if the holiday is due on the weekend, an additional 2-5 days are left unworked in connection with the operation of article 67 of the Labour Code. So this number of extra non-working days will reduce the gross national product, and if you count it, 0.4 percent each day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. [[N o M e s s a ……]] We're done with the procedure, five minutes we just talked. So, dear colleagues, I'm going to put every bill to the vote separately, as we discussed it, and then we're going to define it. The adoption vote is based on the first reading of the draft Law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Registration number 3199. Yes, let's take down the vote. Dear colleagues, calm down! How we all want to celebrate! In order to make it easier for you to get your bearings, I'm going to call the date that this bill refers to. Okay? I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, registration number 3199, author of the People's Deputy of Udovenko. This is about setting up the 9th March of Shevchenkovsky Day. Please vote. [[13:23:40]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Our Ukraine - 76, Communists - 45, Ukrainian regions - 10, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian Party - 1, Ukraine - 1, SPO - 4, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 2, Labour Ukraine - 6, Deminiciative - 0, Center - 8, Postfraction - 9. I am voting on the draft law amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, the bill's author, National MP Tarasyuk. [[Registration number of bill 3199-1]] It is about setting up the Day of Assembly on January 22. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:46]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Our Ukraine - 83, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 11, SDPU - 0, National Agrarian Party - 0, Ukraine - 1, SPO - 9, Block Timoshenko - 19, Union - 2, Labour Ukraine, NDP - 0, Deminiciative - 0, Center - 6, Postfraction - 3. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending article 73 of the Labour Code, the bill's author, the national deputy of Belarus. [[Registration number of bill 3199-2]] It's about setting Mother's Day on May 8th. [[13:25:52]] For-191 Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make two remarks, two remarks: firstly, on ethics and discipline at the Supreme Council meeting and secondly, on the rule of the Constitution, which everyone is voting for itself, I put to the vote the draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine, registration number 5207, author of the bill by the People's MP Kirilov, the point is that on February 23, the day of the Ombudsman of the Church should be set up, please vote. [[13:27:02]] For 109 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists -55, "Ukraine" -18, People's Agrarian - 6, Social-Democracy, "One Ukraine" - 0, Socialists - 6, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Trust Ukraine" - 9, Union - 4, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Center - 1, Non-Frakation - 9. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code, Bill 6345, the bill of the People's Deputy Solomatin, on the establishment of the 7.8 November anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. [[13:28:10]] For 104 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 57, "Regions of Ukraine" -16, People's Agrarian - 2, Social Democrats - 0, "One Ukraine" - 1, Socialists - 7, Block Timoshenko - 0; "True Ukraine", NDP - 8; "Soyuz" - 3; "Democratic Initiatives" - 0; "Centre" - 1; non-fractional - 9. Thus, none of the projects received support. There was a suggestion that we vote once in a bag for all of these. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal, and you will be defined by vote. So I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code as the basis for the first reading. [[all registration numbers 3199, 3199-1, 3199-2, 5207 and 6345]] Please vote. [[13:29:39]] For-89 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 0; Communists - 58; "Ukraine regions" - 14; National Agrarian Party, Social Democratic Party, "Ukrainian One" - 0; Socialists - 4; Block Timoshenko - 0; Hard Ukraine, NDP -6; Alliance -2; Democratic Initiatives -0; Centre -1; Non-fractional -4. Question rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Vulnerable. Please sign up. Please point it on the board. Dear colleagues, be careful because there's a lot of noise now, and I want to make one principle announcement. That's what it's all about. To convey a voice, a word more loyal to one another can only be found at the time of his presentation in the session room. Nobody gives a word to anyone right now. At the moment of the speech, you'll be transmitting. Please be on board for 60 minutes. Anisimo, followed by Rabbit John.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u162	Anisim, Communist faction, 30 constituency. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs. A draft of the Ukrainian Labour Code, adopted in the first reading, would significantly worsen the position of several million hired workers if it was adopted as a law. The rights of women, minors, who are approaching the retirement age will be narrowed down considerably. The rights of other people involved in manufacturing will also be greatly reduced. Especially in the areas of employment, dismissal, compensation for damage caused by production, and many other matters. The adoption of this bill will make it much worse for the professions to defend the rights of hired workers. In fact, they will have no influence on the employer, and they will be able to transform very quickly into an advisory body, no more. This bill cannot be called otherwise a dragon. And in fact, it's a sombre that's tight on the neck of those who feed both the presidents and the ministers, and eventually the law-makers. All of this together is evidence that the invasion of capital on employed workers persists and deepens, and that it cannot even be stopped by the Constitution of Ukraine with its 22 articles. Thus, it can be noted that the economy of Ukraine has been ruined by anti-national reforms, capitalization and so-called effective owners, which in 13 years has been rejected more than half a century ago, and in some cases, especially in the field of high technology, simply destroyed and destroyed further, is given a normative basis in the adoption of the new Labour Code, from which it falsifies the Middle Ages. We, the Communists, in association with the workers, the decent representatives of the trade unions, will do everything we can to prevent this draconian bill from being put into practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u163	Yes, please, Rabbit, present in the hall. He passes the word to Blackyak. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u164	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Who won the elections in Ukraine? In Ukraine, the election was won by a de-mo-kra-tya! And that is what we must recognize and greet! The Ukrainian people have won! Not Yushchenko. Yushchenko became a symbol, a flag. The problem was, how do we avoid falsifying the results of the vote? How can we avoid trying to usurp power through elections? And they found mechanisms and ways to resist it. And first of all, it's not worth as much politicians as it is the Ukrainian people. And that's why the Ukrainian people are the winner! And finally we have to admit that. And that's especially true of Yanukovich, his team. The fact has taken place. I remember speaking directly on 26 p.m. and I called Viktor Fedorovich in the morning, tomorrow morning call Yashchenkov, greet him with a victory, do not wait for the results, these ten percent as Kerry did. He said hello to Bush, he said we're all Americans! We'll work. I tell him, you call and say, we're all Ukrainians, we're all going to work for Ukraine. Instead, it's an artificial delay in the recognition of the elected president. It's just that it's a shame. This is evidence of a lack of political culture. If we had a political culture in those who lost the election, they would have. They would have done it, they wouldn't have delayed the process artificially. Why is the process artificially delayed? To use the time, there is something else to steal, to cover up the traces and to change the image of power. And some of them are already hanging on Yushchenko's "partners." Yushchenko hasn't become president yet, so we need to give him an opportunity to work. So I want to condemn this artificial delay. I understand there's a democratic procedure, it's true. It needs to be used. And we can use it. But if seven percent, eight percent, and if forgeries were greater than those who lost, why delay? Shame on the whole world. And I think Janukovic is losing as a promising opposition policy. Instead of being worthy to go into opposition, and the opposition is the most reliable resistance to power, and taking up its niche, the artificial process is delayed. And I think it's a completely abnormal phenomenon, and I think it's perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u165	The welder in the hall conveys the right to speak to Kulchinski. Please. After him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Not long ago, pensioners, veterans of the two forces of the Poltava district of Abazovka and Novoselovka met many people demanding that land be cut off from the land provided by the Ukrainian Land Code for private ownership of those working there. People have decided to seek the assistance of the Supreme Council deputies because all official appeals to the district’s prosecutors and the district have been unanswered or the law enforcement officers have been denied write-offs. Meanwhile, with the personal participation of the head of the Poltava Reservoir of Land Stepenka, the peasants of Krukova, Novoselovka, Abaziovka use VAT “Bucross” and the Society “Jerela” who refuse to privatize, thus avoiding paying the peasants rent only two farms for half a million dollars. Jerello's administration leased a thousand thousand acres of land for nine thousand dollars, while people would pay 20 times more for privatized land. People are desperate, but determined to take their land by any means necessary. In addition, the condensate is being ripped apart in the Poltava region. The head of the district’s administration personally gives direction to the heads of the village councils, to whom and where to rent the land through which the pipelines are operated. In particular, already under sentence last year for stealing condensate, the co-owners of the Watt "Avantgarde" Oleg Nesevri, at the direction of the administration, are renting land at the Nesteriv Rural Council right next to the pipeline. And against the head of Koshov’s Unstated Rural Council, who disobeyed Stephen and handed over the fields with the farmer’s pipeline, not the theft of Nesevri, a criminal case was violated. That is why a public centre to combat corruption and banditry was established in the Poltava region. People do not believe that law enforcement authorities are capable of protecting their rights. The affairs of the land were seen in their eyes, as was the sight of the inhabitants of the region. Dozens of tons of condensate are organized, while a representative of the IMF district administration seems to be telling the story on Poltava television itself, which is said to be petty thefts discovered in the process of working out the area of condensate theft, are more terrifying and steal more than organized criminal gangs. They laugh at such words, and they justly complain that petty thieves because they can't get away from law enforcement. I refer to the Attorney General's Office with the words signed by several dozen pensioners who have worked hard and become beggars for their entire age, demanding that they stop the abuse and return the land to the people. These are the words: "And we got a "breath" -- that is, a VAT company called Boucros -- with Collie at the head, and they started scratching everything: the cows were cut, the technique was cut, the pigs were cut. What right did they have? It was not theirs, did they not care? We retired were given nothing, not even for a funeral. They're not people, they're barbarians!" Yes, the end of the age of barbarism, homage, humiliation comes to an end. And I'm convinced that Ukrainian peasants will get their land, the Attorney General will make the necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u167	Yes, please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u168	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s Block, the major district that gave a new choice, gave 98.4 percent of its vote for Ukraine’s new destiny. My dear Ukraine! My dear Ukraine, which has passed away with another colossal catastrophe that could have happened, Ukraine, which has thrown off another yoke and, God forbid, let this yoke be the last. I'd like to use these few minutes to communicate with you, honourable voters, here's what. All these new days of 2005 are constantly persecuting me, in a good sense, to think about how it has been for us and what could have happened to us if Ukraine’s choice were completely different. You can hear today from this rostrum several times a day we, the national MPs, have been forced to address the Attorney General, to point out that this authority that we've had for so many years and so many years we've tolerated it, in fact it was the occupying power, it had nothing sacred, it used this land of Ukraine's long-suffering territory as a territory for theft, as an area for dishonest business. They didn't have anything holy. You see what President Janukovic might be -- a man who changes his position five or six times a day; a person who has proved that he is completely incapable of doing so can be ruled by anyone: Crnowil, Schufrich, anyone who can control him. So he's going to Europe, he's going, he's asking for help to Europe, and he's talking about dual citizenship with Russia. Here he speaks of shaking Yushchenkov’s hand the second day after that, and for several days he has been sobbing his head at all the Ukrainian people. You see what's going on, how they're desecrating your Ukrainian property today! [[If you'll excuse me, I use this word. I haven't found anything more complete in Ukrainian language.]] Now it's happening in Ukoopsyłca, I said, a council that is actually today all of the things that were used by the bees of many generations of Ukrainians in this Ukosci, all of which today they want to throw, sell. The hotel "Ukraine" is the best place there is. You see, the soul signs the same one, the head of the DUSS signs orders to privatize it. You see, the Pototsky Palace in Ivano-Frankivsk. No one can save it, no one can save it. As a result, let us be happy that this tribulation has not taken place, that there is a new authority. And, God forbid, to this power of reason. And we're going to do everything we can to get this power to prove that you can live in Ukraine in a more human way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u169	Please, Solomon. Prepare the Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u170	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Ukraine from the country to 52 million in 1992 has become a country with a population of less than 48 million in 2004. That is, human losses amounted to at least 4 million. In order to lose 4 million people, it turns out that there was no need to bomb the strategic enemy or the partner. All these people died from the inability to feed themselves and their lands adequately, from the inability to afford medicine and medical care, from the social degradation and stress caused by the lack of opportunities to find themselves in life. And 7 million of our compatriots have temporarily left Ukraine in search of work and are immersing abroad from Italy to Tumena. If this goes further, there is no basis for hope for the best, so 30 years in Ukraine could leave half of the population that we had for 91 years — a so-called big breakthrough. For example, 1.5 million Vietnamese died in Vietnam during the 10 years of the war. Among them, 700,000 civilians, but this is in the case of carpet bombs, the burning of napalm and orange defoliants, dioxins, punitive expeditions of humanities, in the economic blockade. There was no such thing in Ukraine and there was no such thing. What's the loss? During the small years of the full-fledged hot war in Afghanistan, where the Soviet Union had indirectly opposed the opposition of the Madjahed countries, such as the United States, Western Europe, Pakistan, Iran and a number of other States, our former country had lost 13,833 people, including 2,378 Ukrainians, a functional literacy student in secondary school knew that 2,378 people were 1678 times less than 4 million of our compatriots lost in 13 years of seemingly peaceful transition from an inefficient socio-economic order to an effective one. Anyone who has a small amount of chat in his head will make a formal and logical conclusion, which regime is more humane, perhaps the millions who have been deprived of their lives, because of the fault of the reformers of life, does not bother anyone in Ukraine. The irony of fate will be that in the near future, with the sobering people, there will also be a number of soldiers, the orange infantry. It is well - known that revolutions are idealized, and its fruitage is enjoyed by fraudsters and scoundrels. If the current revolutionaries don't understand it, that's their big problem. However, if its creators want to look like revolutionaries, they will be, but only responsible for its consequences will most of them come on revolutionary skins, for all they have to pay for, amen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u171	Yes, please, then go like this, Chubarov, after that Ostrash, please, please, Chubarov, speak while Igor comes to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u172	Highly esteemed colleagues, distinguished voters. A few days later, the legally elected president of Ukraine will take up his mandate, setting the last point in the long-term electoral marathon. As I join my colleague's claim that democracy has prevailed in Ukraine, I must add, despite the efforts of many politicians and authorities to disrupt and oppose Ukrainian society. Deeply convinced that all of us have to learn not only from a cruel campaign but also from creating conditions for the non-repetition of such forms of pre-election companies that have almost split the country apart and have not led to human collisions. Thus, the new government, including the minister of internal affairs, is new, as well as the Attorney General’s Office should examine all the reasons that have led the authorities and their officials to either interfere illegally with the electoral process or directly encourage illegal actions by certain political forces. In one of my speeches today, I mentioned a mass of hundreds of thousands of copies of the Crimea’s so - called letter to the Crimean Tatar people. Our repeated appeals to the Attorney General's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have not led to anything positive, and to this day, the people who printed, produced this text, which is extremely offensive, both to the Crimean Tatars themselves first and to the Russians, to the Ukrainians, to other ethnic communities that live in the Crimea. The U.S. Attorney's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea found little reason to break the criminal case by spreading the text that was aimed at fuelling interethnic and interreligious hostility in the criminal society. The headquarters of then the Ukrainian presidential candidate, Viktor Yushchenka, also officially applied for telephone interrogations, illegal interrogations on grounds that were groundless, of headquarters phones. And for this reason, no investigation has been carried out to this day either. I'm only saying all this for one thing that we really do, and here I agree, maybe not so often. with Comrade Solomon, that all illegal, evil must be punished, punished by the violation of any law on the part of anyone who has not been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u173	Please, Igor Ostash, prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u174	Dear fellow national MPs, I would first like to welcome all of you with the old New Year as well as our listeners. I think it's a good thing when we're reinvigorating old traditions. And I am very sad that today we have failed to vote on January 22 - the Day of Assembly. Because right now, I think one of the main problems is the question of assembly. It would be very good if we showed all the Ukrainians that we were in favour of really Ukraine being consolidated, and Ukraine was the only one. Dear friends, I'd like to draw your attention to these insinuations around the issues that have entered now and in the trial of the vote of the disabled. There's a very clear statistic that, you know, in Ukraine, 2.6 million people with disabilities, including 300,000 people with first group disabilities, 800,000 -- 3rd and 130,000 -- 2nd group. But, as you know, Janukovitch said, the number of people with disabilities increased from three to four and then to five million. I would like to say that most of the disabled in the second and third groups voted, many of them working. And by law, we provided the first group with a vote for the disabled. So we need to understand that all of this is undoubtedly the use of such a delicate subject. And in my opinion, it would be better for Mr. Yanukovich all this time to deal with the real life of the disabled, to make sidewalks for the disabled, to go to homes for the disabled, and lifts for the disabled, that is to say, to do everything possible to ensure that the disabled are integrated into our lives, not to use it in this way for their political purposes. Dear friends, I would also like to draw your attention to these pitfalls, as expressed by Mr. Vasiliev, who is now in the process of looting state property. We are well aware that the delay with the Supreme Court involves the opportunity to steal the last huge and small and medium - sized objects of government property and to steal Ukraine’s largest wealth of land. Today, much has been said about Kiev's land in the Vodica Desert. The same is true today with Borispol Airport, where they are practically also trying to privatise the land in Borispol and around Borispol, and in this way they are practically trying to make the property go from state to private, and all of this also relates to the clan, to the family of the President of Ukraine. What is more, unfortunately, this could lead to serious international scandals here, because it has a serious impact on Ukraine's receiving a $170 million loan. $ 30 years under three percent with a return, starting at 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u175	Yes, please, Anatoly Rahansky. Get ready, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u176	Anatoly Rahansky, 4th European constituency, interfractional MPs association. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, has recently received a large number of applications, calling 3.5 million. victims of the Chernobyl accident, as well as appeals from the All-U.S. Chernobyl Party "For the Welfare and Social Protection of the People" that they have not been recalculated and paid pensions under the Ukrainian Act "On the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance", on the failure to implement the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Station accident. This is described by participants in the elimination of the effects of the accident in CHAES of the first category, the disability of the second group of Kiryakov Oleg Kostinović, Bondarenko Larissa Georgievna, and many others. [[city of Kyiv Desnyan district]] As a result of this attitude toward the Chernobyl family, they are unable to buy medicine, food, and a minimum standard of living for families. Many die prematurely. It is worth reminding us that more than 600 thousand died, according to Minhhrat, from 1.01.99 to 1.01.2004. Black people. Their deaths have to do with the consequences of the Chernobyl accident. That is 15 percent of the victims who protected Ukraine and the world from a global catastrophe. Regrettably, in the 2005 State budget, the Cabinet of Ukraine did not provide for the expenditure of the Ministry of Health, it did not take into account the health benefits for the affected citizens of 96 million, 525,000 dollars, the radiological protection of the population and the ecological recovery of the polluted areas by 21 million, 310,000 dollars, the capital investment of the Chernobyl Building Program for 52 million, 292 thousand. Minpraci’s expenses do not include compensation for damage, health, and relief in the event of relief from the work of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, more than 55 million dollars. During the preparation of the State Budget for 2005, I made these proposals to the draft budget. Therefore, I ask that Kabmin be given a mandate when amending the Ukrainian Law "The State Budget 2005 to take these proposals into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u177	Yes, please, Vitaly Mother, prepare Anastasia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u178	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Dear friends of MPs, respected industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine! I want to report that I am ashamed of our work in support of industry last year. Throughout the year, the Supreme Council adopted good laws, seeking ways to help the industry get back on its feet. But the political actions that force us to adopt the budget within a few days, to adopt the budget that is needed for the time being, in fact, the entire legislative base of Ukraine is being destroyed. And we're adopting laws that support industry, we're destroying them with a budget project, and that's every year. Until the budget is based on the adopted laws of the Supreme Council, and not on the contrary, the industry and life of Ukraine will never improve. That's what everyone needs to understand. Moreover, major areas such as aviation, shipbuilding, electronics, and microelectronics did not receive all the money in that year. In order to give up the fifth number or the sixth, I do not remember for sure that in the morning the money was listed in the treasury as State care, and in four hours the treasury took everything away, saying that you did not hurry to take the money. So I'm sure there's going to be a huge budget economy out there somewhere. It's not an economy, it's an industrial destruction and it's a state crime. And I'm going to demand that next week I hear a report from the old minister's office to tell him how it happened, why the industry wasn't funded. It seems to me that the leadership of the Supreme Council should also conclude that the budget should be implemented, given to the Supreme Council, first of all, on the legislative basis of existing ones. There can be no such budget as they say. It's also a crime. And the second. We should definitely invite the prime minister here to perform his duties as prime minister. Let him report how, in the presence of the money left to the State, the industry lost its funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u179	Anastasia's handing over Mironka, isn't it? For now, Anastasiav, Mironenko, Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u180	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, I would like to begin by saying about pension imbalances and the possibility of addressing this problem, which I think is also relevant to improving the standard of living of the entire population of Ukraine. The abolition of retired soldiers after 1992 is clearly and purposefully prolonged. What's the reason? The pensioners are now calling and saying that they pay a lot of money. Betrayal is much less than it actually is. What's the reason? Well, we can say that the State Budget Act is once again discriminatory and narrowed down interests. We can say that. But perhaps let us first look at what the representatives of the same Ministry of Defence say. Perhaps the main reason in this regard is that only 2.6 billion grivens are laid in the State budget and 3.2 million are required, and many social programmes also require money and lack funds. What can be done in this regard? The faction of the Company of Ukraine suggested that the interests of the oligarchs should be affected when the State budget was adopted. It didn't work. Most of them didn't support it. And today's vote in this room can be further concluded that most of it is what it is. It's oligarchic. 300 million people will not vote in favour of the people and the party, and note how they voted in favour of the restoration of the festival on 7 November, which marked the elimination of human exploitation. Nor did the faction “Our Ukraine” and the Social Democratic Party vote, and others, I say, bourgeois, capitalist, not important. If one party is nationalist and the other, so-called international, they're all stealing, they're all rounding up the people. As long as this situation continues, the people will be permanently robbed. A scheme is now proposed: 2 candidates from capitalist perspectives. Yushchenko, let's say Yanukovich. Is it not clear to anyone that there will continue to be the same Chernovetsk-Oligarch in the hall, the banker who has robbed, I will say, with bank interest on credit, economy and people. He will pretend to be a Christian, but he will vote for the laws for the oligarchs but not for the people. And he himself will be smothering laws that take care of bums who are deprived of their homes. And who took them from their apartments, don't you gentlemen?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u181	The word is Basil Nadrag. Prepare Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I'd like to give me a chance to speak, after all. I understand you're on fire. I think that today we still have to go back to the theme of the 2005 budget. The theme of the 2005 budget has become rather sad, because in all the talks that we have adopted, all of us, and when we have adopted it, we have talked to you about the need for this budget to be revised, literally, early this year. And I think we need to review it. And review, including some of the special problems that exist today and in the territories. In this case, I represent the Luhansk region. What do I want to tell you? The bill, which had been proposed for first reading, had approved, respectively, the relevant work, which was based on a vision of the territory and how it should be done. So I want to tell you that, among other things, it was envisaged that 49.1 billion grevens in the Lugansk region would be transferred to the utility property of the social and residential complex from the fuel and energy complex or, more simply, from coal miners. It was a subject. Next question. Provision was made for the gasification of mining cities and towns. It depended on the topic because there are, unfortunately, no numbers in that version of the budget that we have adopted. I have to tell you that up to 72 million, the cost of coal production in the Lugansk region has been reduced, which is three times less than the cost of reading. And so today we can say that all such actions, all such shortcomings of the State budget, in particular in the Luhansk region, have led to the following. First. Today, there is virtually no funding to prepare clearing lines of mine fighting, today there is hardly any resources for the reconstruction of the coal sector in the Lugansk region, which is, so to speak, a deadlock situation, because without developing the coal industry, we are saving it with you. Not enough, we have struck the population with these actions, and because we have not allocated money to facilities that have been transferred to the utility property from the mine balance sheet, we have thus abandoned hospitals, schools, housing because the local budgets do not have the money, and I want to go back to where it started. Deeply convinced in the review of the budget as of February of this year, we must necessarily look at the challenges that remain in the Territories, including in my Luhansk region, which we need, we must resolve in terms of funding, because that is the responsibility of the Supreme Council, not the politics that we sometimes make with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u183	Please, Sobolev conveys the word to Bondarenko Volodymyr, to prepare for Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u184	Vladimir Bondarenko, the city of Kiev, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine," dear friends, I would like to violate today's issue of integrity in the policy of the right word and deed. I was surprised by the statements made by one candidate to the President of Ukraine who said he would work as Prime Minister until the last time he could, the second morning he filed an application that he was retiring. He said on television that he would shake his opponent's hand if he wins, the next day and today, clinging to a chair, he would provide the privatization of property in Ukraine by the forces represented today by the Social Democrats united, who would seize housing houses, houses in Crimea, entire sanatorium for a football club like Dynamo-Kiyev, and then privatize them. I think those who are yelling at it most today want people to know the truth, but I'm going to say it anyway. I want to say that the representatives of one political extreme left force are also acting strangely, claiming impartiality and not supporting any candidate. We then saw the direct action of the Communists in behalf of Yanukovich, it happened in Crimea after Grac called, it happened in Donetskina after Gmir spoke - it became clear. But I am shocked by the actions of this bloc’s representative today, especially the leader, respected as a man, who is the leader of Mr. Gerasimov’s veteran organization. Today, in Kiev, his troops are conducting an active assembly of statements, even demanding that people submit that they were unable to vote from the veterans ’ environment. I would like to quote a letter from other veterans who are united in another organization. They're writing. General Gerasim’s veteran organization monopolized the right to the truth, threw out the names of thousands of underground veterans from Ukraine’s history, particularly from the Kiev compound John Heathchenk. While in power, these leaders of the official procurator’s veteran organization ignore the rights of the same elderly, injured, and sick who died in battle for Ukraine, especially without upholding the same rights as they themselves have for UPA soldiers. They showed that they were not working for Ukraine, that they were working for a neighboring state, and that they were following instructions from their party center. Regrettably, the work of this veteran organization is financed from the State Budget, not from its own resources, and it is essentially in the political direction of a single political power. I believe that such organizations, which are of general interest and status, should not be financed by the State Budget if they are clearly political in favour of one political power or of one political party or another. So I urge the veterans who join this veteran organization to stop collecting forged data on the inability to vote in the elections. People in Kiev voted on the third so - called tour a little more than on the first and the second. This means that no human has been deprived of such a right. And thank God that all the veterans are healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u185	Anatoly Orzhachowski has the word to prepare Tarano.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u186	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear fellow voters, my presentation today concerns the protection of the cultural heritage created in honor of the soldiers of the city's liberators, the village of Ukraine during the Great Homeland War. The presentation was preceded by four parliamentary requests to the government’s leaders, last January 11 to the head of parliament. A letter from the veteran organization of the city of Tsurpín, in the Hersonian region. Briefly about its contents. As war veterans, your parents and your grandparents approach you as their children and grandchildren, at least show a drop of compassion for the pain of people who have been exposed to the fire of war, for those who have lived for many years or days. With pain in our heart on January 4, this year, we received the news that on December 23, last year, the prime minister of Azarov signed an order from the government to grant permission for transfer to the city of Turupin to honor the soldiers of the city’s liberators from the central square to the park. By the actions of Mr. Azarov, we are extremely indignant, and through the people's advocates, we ask: how could a state man before the 60th anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War in contravention of the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in war sign a document that is an image of the winners. We remembered well the words of the former Chief of Staff of the 87th Guard Division of General Kulenk, whose division liberated our city. Today’s and all future generations will forever preserve in their hearts the gratitude and genuine love for those who have brought us a joyful victory at the cost of their lives in the fear - inspiring forties. Why is there such a short memory in today’s leaders of the State of those who liberated Ukraine? Did they deserve to have faith in the holy memory of the fallen brothers when the monument to their heroic feat could not be in the center of the community? Monuments in honor of the Liberation Soldiers were taken under protection by the Hersonian Archduke in 1984. Behind it is a protected area of the earth. However, the local religious community of the Kyiv patriarchy, along with certain political forces, had a different opinion for the purpose of building a temple. We went to Leonidas Kuchma, the candidates for Presidents Yushchenka and Yanukovich, and the district authorities knew our problem, supported the court. We also had the assurance of Kabmin, which could be satisfied by both sides. Thereafter, the question was considered to be solved, but the monument did not interfere with the construction of the temple. That is why war veterans object to the movement of the monument and the conflict between the church and the local community. Let's make an announcement. We have nothing to lose. We won't let this shrine go to the corners of the park. As a result, we ask you to create a commission to make a decision. Calm down the war-torn veteran souls." I'll add to it. What happens to officials when they change their positions in a month. It's probably a presentation to the so-called new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u187	Thank you. Taran, I can't see. Grigorovich too. Vojsz passes the word to Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u188	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The issue of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from the Republic of Iraq is complex and ambiguous. Yet we come from the fact that during the pre-election campaign, both candidates for the presidency made it clear that Ukrainian soldiers would be returned home. But the first steps of the Yushchenka team, who already sees themselves in power and from pleasure to orange, warns us about the matter. Nearly two thirds of the members of the "Our Ukraine" faction did not support the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the mere coincidence of the situation here is inappropriate because the Iraqi question was put to the vote for the second time. Even the death of eight military personnel in Iraq at once did not provide sufficient reason for Victor Yushchenk’s faction to vote positively. But the biggest concern is the further development of events around the decision of the Supreme Council. A representative of the U.S. Department, Richard Boucher, stated that the resolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not mandatory. Moreover, he stressed that in general the issue of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq would be adopted by a new government after full consultation with all of us. How can we evaluate this fact? As a member of the Supreme Council, I have a fair question: What do we now face with a new reality when the political decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are optional, and this will not even be determined in Ukraine? I am far from being pressured by the decisions of the legitimate government authority by the Ukrainian authorities themselves. However, I would like to understand whether we are witnessing the formation of a new approach to the political decisions of the Ukrainian Parliament? And would such an approach be normal under the new authority? I strongly believe that the decision of any state authority in Ukraine does not require recommendations from any country. And any estimates given to our decisions must be made within the framework of the common standards that work in inter-State relations. And now I want to go back to voting on the Iraqi issue. Is it not the result that the faction "Our Ukraine" has issued as a result of correcting the actions of the political force, the force of the external power. 41 votes 101 is what? Fear of indulging in their patrons? As Ukraine’s national deputy, I am opposed to similar developments in my country. The real criterion to be followed by any state body when making decisions should be national interests and any political power in Ukraine should act exclusively in the name of society. Ukraine's social-democratic party has always been guided and guided by this principle. [[united]] And we hope that there will never be any other way in Ukraine, especially under the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u189	Yeah, I don't see dirt either. Puzakov, behind him, Odynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u190	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Not long ago, we were considering the moral qualities of our society, and in this regard, I would like to say that we are very late today to think about the moral qualities of our society when the hands of the “reformers” in the coffeehouses destroyed this morale. Indeed, in Ukraine today, there is a complete lack of spiritual values — theft, murder, drug abuse, alcohol, and prostitution. And it's scary that it's all become the law of life and a lot of youth. For example, in the province of Kirovograd, 500 minors took the path of crime, and 400 children did not go to school on 1 September. In fact, they are all exploited by the criminal business and, at the same time, the main source of its future personnel. Ukraine is undergoing a process of total spiritual degradation of young people, the country is forgetting theatres, museums, clubs of interest, libraries, high-art and familiar films, and classical literature. Young people are not interested in the army or politics or education. The authorities, among other things, are well aware and it must be scary that 43 per cent of young people do not want to live in Ukraine for various reasons. We are constantly fed from TV screens with sweet tales of how a fool becomes a pop model, and an unemployed millionaire, spinning a send-off show where we can win a huge prize of money and fall from dirt to princes and hope for a miracle. Of course, young people enjoy it, but it is particularly difficult for older people to experience this aggression of mass American unculture. Even poverty and material hardship are often less likely than the immoral suffering caused by television and the press. It is clear that this has been pursued by a targeted public policy on the demoralization of the population and the dispersion of young people. All the trouble is that most of the print and television channels are private businesses whose main purpose is profit and morale is secondary. And look at these senseless, shameless, immoral ads! But the Advertising Act was passed, and the train is there now. And what Mr. Bondarenko is very concerned about today from this rostrum is that the faction of Our Ukraine is still gathering the signatures of the Gerasimov veterans, so you must, Bondarenko, not talk about it, but admit to people that it is not the victory of the people, not the victory of democracy, and it is the victory of your clan, which is headed by Mr. Yushchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u191	Odynik, Lukyanenko, Melniczuk Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, who's the word? Please, Loboda conveys the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, the problem of electoral absintheism -- that's how electoral legislation defines it -- that is, failure to vote has disappeared from our electoral legislation. There used to be a threshold of 50 percent. He's gone now. Although in most parts of Europe, perhaps most of the world, there is such a threshold, it is also in Belarus, our neighbors, it is also in Russia. What did this lead to? If 77 percent of voters were elected, this is an unheard-of result for Europe, and our orange candidate got 52 percent of those who went to the polls. Then we multiply 77 percent with you by 52 percent, and we have 41 percent of the total number of Ukrainian citizens who have the right to vote. Where's 59 percent? 59 percent are those who voted in favour of another candidate who voted against everyone, these are what they call absensors, or "pophegists," who keep the fig in their pocket for everyone. So we have with you the result that an orange candidate who has only won 41 percent of the total number of citizens who have the right to vote is a person who claims to be the President-elect, without moral grounds. So what I want to say is how can such an inaugural candidate manage the country, and what he has then is moral and justice, if he only gets 41% of the total number of voters who have the right to vote in Ukraine, he'll try all of Ukraine, including that part of Ukraine that didn't vote for it. This is not only a legal problem but also, above all, a moral problem and a problem of justice. As she makes up her mind, we'll see. But I want to say that, in this perspective, I see no fair solution to this problem, except that the Supreme Court of Ukraine has declared those elections that took place on December 26th not real. That's the first one. And the second. To appoint a new Ukrainian presidential election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u193	Masenko. Sokirko. Atrosian. Chevchuk. Kostinuk, please. A school to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u194	Victor Yushchenka's block, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! A few days later, on January 22, we will celebrate the 86th anniversary of the curse of the Ukrainian People’s Republic and the Western Ukrainian People’s Republic in the only constituency of the Ukrainian nation. The act of wickedness reaffirmed the Ukrainians ’ desire to live in one state, to share their joys, and to solve difficult problems together. In those years, however, it was not possible to preserve statehood and the result was that Ukraine was divided by foreign borders. Regrettably, even today the Supreme Council has not been able to vote on that proposal so that, in fact, the day of calamity will be recognized as a public holiday, but we will be back soon. It was then that the 20th century had passed for the destruction of actual independence that the methods of geographical division of Ukraine were used. This method of dividing Ukrainians into eastern and westerners has been used effectively and successfully to prevent Ukrainians from becoming aware of themselves as a full European nation. Today's configuration of the different regions of our country is against each other's ideas, the so-called autonomy of the eastern regions. All these are the methods of imperial technologists or politicians who provided their services to the electoral headquarters of the only candidate in power. As for our people, he was on the Main Independence Day, on the grounds of Ivano-Frankivsky and Kharkiv and Lviv and Dnipropetrovska and Ternopol and Poltava said his multimillion-dollar: 'East and West together! And that's why you can't beat us." This anniversary will be celebrated in another state of content, with a new national president, with new hopes and aspirations. We believe that the return will be gone, and the constituency, democratic Ukraine, will be an example of ensuring the constitutional rights and freedoms of every citizen. With regard to the so - called autonomy of individual regions, there is no economic or political basis for this, nor will there be for anyone. by upholding the rules of the current Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And for those disabled autonomouss and federalists, I will remind you that the provision of the 5th article of the current Constitution, which states that the right to define and change the constitutional system in Ukraine belongs exclusively to the people, and cannot be usurped by the state or the authorities or officials. We passed the idea of gathering Ukrainian lands through Sofia Square in the 19th year, through the resistance movement, through the chain of links between Ivano-Frankiv and Kiev in the 1990s, through the orange revolution in 2004 and this idea in our hearts and in our minds. Ukraine is and will be a congregational and consummate festival, respected friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u195	Yes, please, School, follow him, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u196	Thank you. Andrew School, Timoshenko Cell Block. I would like, of course, to return to the vote that took place here in the walls of the Supreme Council for the celebration. I'm also opposed to multiplying the number of weekends, but what needs to be changed is definitely. Well, on May 1.2, let's remember, you can do one day if you talk about workers' solidarity there, because 2 days for one solidarity is too much. Well, secondly, I'd like to literally stroke, February 23, when it's being celebrated, whether it's suggested to celebrate the day of the defender of the country -- it's the day when the Red Army was broken by German troops, so it's not worth saying that it's a holiday day, or some day of the country, even in Russia, they've decided to look at this day as the day of the defender of the country, and it's always going to be more careful with the dates. And what I'd like to do is to stop at the gains, when we talk about the end of the electoral process, when we say that the fruit of revolutionary change should be a new power, it should not only be essentially, not just by form, but also by content. And in order for it to be new in content, this new authority needs to be applied as a illustration. Lustration in translation is this cleansing, and it's pretty good that there's an initiative of the Ukrainian student brotherhood, which has been made by young boys who have taken the initiative to do illustrations, about officials who have been accused of foreclosure of elections, of persecution for dissent, of persecution for opposition and so forth. The one who is clean does not fear cleansing, for it is not for nothing to come to anyone. And the person who is dirty, the person who is a polluted collaboration, is grateful to undergo the cleansing process. Without that, there will be no sense of complete victory. I am convinced that no one should be intimidated or pushed away by the illustration. Because this will be a pleasant procedure for those who will remain in office as civil servants and civil servants. It won't be an issue ever, no one's going to suspect later that you were working with the old, and you were doing something that you didn't know. It will be known how, and this procedure was successfully conducted in the Czech Republic. And the Czech Republic did not lose, but it did. It was won as a full, self-sustaining, powerful economic state that has a budget that Ukraine will still have to work and work. At one social cost alone, the Czech Republic spends twice as much as the entire Ukrainian budget. So I think this student initiative is worth the support. I personally work on the Book of Illustration Act, and I am convinced that in the next session we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u197	The dry one passes the word Simonek. And that's where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. In speaking out of this rostrum, I want to use this opportunity to help our people in Ukraine to deal with some of the complex issues of today. First. It is a constant view that democracy has prevailed in Ukraine and that the people of Ukraine have conquered it. Someone won't like it, but I'm going to tell the truth in Ukraine, and a powerful criminal oligarchy capital has won. The same system of authority that Kuchma and his sidekicks have conquered. And the presidential election in Ukraine was not won by Yushchenko, in my opinion, nor by the nationalist forces, but won by the United States. Those who do not see it are blind or romantic. Those who close their eyes are selfless. Those who carry out their orders are, in my opinion, traitors to the people of Ukraine. Kuchma, Yanukovic and Yushchenko are the same thing, this is the same clan, they just played a political campaign, coming out of the interests of a powerful capital, and in this campaign they tricked the people of Ukraine. This is also evident from the fact that Kuchma’s teachers were in one camp and another. They were agitating and working to keep this disgraceful system of power -- the power of political traitors -- agitating both in Yanukovich's team and in Yushchenka's team. Do we not see that on the team of the so - called winner today all the most trusted persons of the Kuchma? It's the same Volkov, it's the same Zinchenko, it's those who were representatives of the President of the Supreme Council and many others, it's his ministers, it's his deputy prime minister, it's his prime ministers, it's all those who were just working on the policy that Kuchma proposed in 94. I would like to remind the people of Ukraine that, in 99th year, this betrayal and this agreement between Kuchma and the right nationalist forces led to the falsification of elections in 99th year, when residents and residents of western Ukraine cheated on Kuchma for a second term. And for that, they were given the prime minister's office for themselves. This means motorists and nationalists. That is why I repeat: the honourable electorate, the distinguished people of Ukraine, today the political log that is being considered for future government officials, is the same log of Kuchma’s staff, and these are his supporters today who defend the interests of his clan, his family, and the interests of the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-14-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, had the opportunity to carry out their word to speak from this rostrum. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. I emphasize that the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, January 18. Allow me once again, on your behalf, to welcome all our fellow citizens with the old New Year and Basil with their day.
