ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:26]] They registered in the 386 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, Cemistrek Vitalia Grigorovovich, who is 40 years old, and Crnovila Tarasa Vijacheslavovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health, fruitful success in the work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the results of our plenary work on May 31st. As predicted, 44 day - to - day issues were discussed at the May 31st meeting. As a result of the review, 14 laws were passed, six bills were adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was drafted, 10 bills were rejected, one decree was adopted, and seven bills were incorporated into the agenda of the day session. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, two laws have been passed in a new edition, and one law has been repealed. Yeah, now it's an ad. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the arrival of the Ukrainian National Deputy Mordovia Leonid Mihajlovich as part of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Yes, respected colleagues, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's Rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, applications and messages. Yesterday, during the Conciliation Council meeting, we agreed on this procedure today: to announce the parliamentary requests that came, then to consider the issues of the agenda, and the speeches of the authorized representatives of the MPs and factions will take place during the discussion of the report of the Temporary Special Commission. Dear colleagues! We've got 45 minutes, I'll have 45 minutes to read the questions, then let's put other proposals to the vote. People’s Deputies Asked About Ukraine Andrija SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine on the prohibition of the political party “Ukrainian National Assembly”. I bet on the vote to support the request [[10:04:26]] For 135 Request not supported. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 51, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 0, National Party - 7, Block Timoshenko - 9, SPU-18, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, SDPU - 3, Only Ukraine - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 13, non-fractional - 6. Vassil GAVRILUK to the President of Ukraine on the protection of constitutional property and corporate rights of members of the Organization of Renters of the Cherkas district printery name of the newspaper “True”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:20]] For-72 Request not supported. Mr. Alexander COLONIARI to the President of Ukraine for the exacerbation of interfaith conflicts in Ukraine and for the actions of the Ternopil district government regarding the religious communities of the village of Rohmanov in the Ternopil region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:54]] For-82 Request not supported. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the application of measures to end the outbreak of international hostility in Ukraine. [[PEACE, BUDGET, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:25]] For-67 Not supported. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to block the cards of National Associate Deputies and lift the results of their vote. [[GORBAL, COMAR AND OTHERS]] MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister for granting a commercial loan to an Avers-93 limited company. Mr Dmitry RUDKOVSKOV to the Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy, Minister of Emergency Affairs, Minister of Defence for the Repayment of Debt owed to the employees of the Zitomir sewing company “TUSMO”. SUNCHENKA to the Prime Minister for lack of funding to encourage and support the winners of the 2004 All-U.S. project competition and local self-government programmes. Lesya THANJUKA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a public education school and an ambulance in the region of the Pyrogov City of Vinnica. Alexia Korsakowa and Paul Sulkovska to the Prime Minister on the verification of the visit of the Minister of Transport and Communications to Monte Carlo. Ms. Matvienkov and Mr. Komara to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General on the damage caused by domestic metallurgy and the State budget as a result of the increase in the tariffs for transport and other activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. MICILI JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds to stabilize the operation of the city’s electricity in Gorlovka Donetsk region. Mr. Vladimir MASTRISHINA to the Prime Minister for the insufficient financing of the work involved in the restoration of the school in the village of Noskovki of the Žmerinsky district of Winnitsky. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, on the benefits of electricity and household gas for health workers working in rural areas. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister for the payment of the debt on salary to the workers of the “Donbassdom repair” of the city of Jenakiyev. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA and Miki Komara to the Prime Minister for contempt of the Minister of Culture and Tourism in the case of the director of the Russian Drama Theatre. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the Mamaliga-Tarasovka gas pipeline of the Novoselicka District of Cherniewec. Vassila NADRAGI to the Prime Minister on the critical financial situation of the company Luganskeletrotrans. Mr Ivana TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Petrushka Korsun-Shevchenkov, Cherkas region. Refata Chubarova to the Prime Minister for ignoring the legitimate right of believing Catholics to return to the Roman Catholic temple of St. Clement, which was nationalized in Soviet times. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the situation that took place on the closed stock company “Bilocerkowska autobaza No 7.” Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation and financing of the elderly in the village of Starosilla, in the Cherkas region. Mikhail DOBKINA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of funding for specialized children's sports schools in the Kharkiv region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation surrounding the restoration of the work of the Heivoron harvester. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the return to the simplified system of taxation of small businesses and the improvement of the position and development of businesses in Ukraine. Alexander CARENKA to the Prime Minister for publications in the media of the Suma region on falsification of data on the real state of affairs in the agro-industrial complex. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the renovation of the Culture House in the village of Carlo-Marcsovo, the city of Jenakiyev. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for violations of the land and property rights of former members of the collective agricultural enterprise “Premigation” of the village of Zarubinci in the Andrušev district of Žitomir Region. Mr Paul TOWCHANA to the Prime Minister for the cessation of the illegal construction of an administrative building on the street of the Great Zitomirsk in Kiev. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the imbalance in the work of accountants of local self-government. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, political persecution, threats and blackmailing of the head of the Dibribrian Rural Council of the District of the Year, the province of Ravenna, by the head of the district government. Peter SECTOR to the Prime Minister on the identification of a site for the disposal of galvanic waste. Vassila ADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for differences in the interpretation of the provisions of the Added Cost Tax Act concerning the export of goods for small-scale enterprises. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister on the political persecution of the chief physician of Shepetov County Hospital. Vladimir MOJSICA to the Prime Minister for the granting to certain villages of the Colomia region of Johno-Frankow region of the status of mountain settlements. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Prime Minister regarding the gasification of the village of Komarov in the Winnicki district. Eugene LAPINA and Leonida ISAYEVA to the Prime Minister, heads of the State Property Fund, the Secretary of State for Information on the situation of forced “resettlement” of the Ministry of Health into unsuited premises and possible violations of the work of the Department of Health. MIKOLI AGREEMENT to the Prime Minister for amending legislation in part of the payment of taxes on the added cost of housing and utilities. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister for the cynical efforts of senior officials of the previous Cabinet of Ministers even now to privatize the territory of the government’s “Vehicle of Water” – a celebration of the Mezigira, where there are the tombs of the famous Cossacks and unexplored remains of the shrine of the Ukrainian Cossack – the Inter-Igorian Salvation Monastery. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Security and Defence Council for the preservation as a whole of the central executive body, the State Committee for Labour Protection. Anatolysa of RACHAN to the Prime Minister for a significant increase in the price of sugar, which will hit most of the population, will result in a loss of competitiveness at the cost of air conditioning products, a breakdown of the air conditioning industry. MICHELLA to the Prime Minister about the state of granting State-owned credit to individual rural builders, young families, and single young citizens for construction and housing, and compensation for interest rates on bank loans. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfying attitude of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to respond to a parliamentary request regarding the repayment of debt from domestic fuel to workers, pensioners and mine disabled who are eliminated or closed. Ms. FOMENKO to the Prime Minister for the acceleration of approval of sites funded by the State Budget grant to local budgets for socio-economic development of the regions, the implementation of measures for prejudice and the prevention of technological disasters in the housing and utility economy for investment projects and the gasification of population sites in 2005. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister on the attempt to substitute the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, on the appeal of residents of the city of Prika to the restructuring of the Pritsky Central and Children's Hospitals, the reduction of the network of medical facilities, the violation of the constitutional right of citizens to health care. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMOPLAV TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTERS ON THE NEED TO CHANGE THE COMPETITION AND PAYMENTS OF ASSISTANCE TO AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS. Paul MATIJENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the call for shareholders of the Torres Power Plant of the Donetsk Region on the early termination of the lease agreement with the State Property Fund and the transfer of the enterprise to state ownership. Victor SLAUTI and Taras ČERNOVOL to Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenka on the verification of telephone voting methods for the group “Grinjoli” during the national sampling tournament and the political responsibility for the disgraceful failure of the Ukrainian group at the international “Europe” competition. Jury KOSTENKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikolia Tomenka on the problem of law enforcement and harmonization of relations between Sevastopol's information space subjects. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal, Head of the Kyiv Regional Administration, on the legal basis of the implementation of administrative and territorial reform within the Kyiv area as an experimental area. Tarasa ČORNOVOL to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal on the conformity of the Constitution with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the experiment of administrative and territorial reform in the Kyiv region. RAISES OF THE rich towards Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal for the financing of measures under the project “Implementation of contractual and competitive relations in housing and utilities on the basis of the long-term concept of reform” by the District Council of the city of Belogon. John GAVRILUK to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the illegal actions of prosecutors and internal affairs bodies in the area of Lviv in the investigation of road traffic. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service, to ensure that information on offences in the activities of energy-efficient companies is properly verified. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service, Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on facilitating information to verify compliance with the requirements of legislation when further issuing shares by the State Shareholder of the Black Sea Shipbuilding Company. Boris HOT TO THE Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the theft of state property and the violation of legislation on the election of the President of Ukraine by individual officials of the internal affairs bodies of the Volin region. Group of People's Deputies to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, on the legal assessment of the creation by the President of Ukraine of a working group dealing with the development of the oil industry. [[TURMANOV, COMAR, CORSACOV]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on measures to halt the outbreak of international hostility in Ukraine. [[PEACE, BUDGET, AND OTHERS]] Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General for the construction of a residential building on the street of Petra Krasikov, Solomonian district of Kiev. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the reasons for the cessation of investigation of violations by former police officers in the Herson area of the Criminal Procedure Code and electoral legislation. Mr. Nestor Šufrič to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service regarding the misconduct of the Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast concerning the forced departure of Ukrainian citizens outside the city of Dnipropetrovska in 2001. Michael MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General for the investigation into the murder of a member of the Czernovetsek Foreign Service, Vladimir Dumitr. BORISA HEADED to the Attorney General on the corruption of officials of the Lutsk City Council of Volin Region in the process of privatizing the music school No. 1 and disbursing the budget. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney-General on the collective appeal of employees and shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association “Plem factory Christmas” regarding the conduct of a comprehensive audit of the financial and economic activities of the company and possible abuses by the management of the farm. Eugena LAPINA and Alexia Corsacova to the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, on the legal evaluation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs' practice with a call for questioning through the media. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Attorney General regarding the improper examination of a parliamentary request regarding the circumstances of the death of a citizen named Viktorov. VITALY SIBKA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the grounds of failure to take action on behalf of the National MP for committing a crime by an official of the local government. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General on the improper use by officials of the All-U.S. Public Union of Chernobyl Ukraine of the budget allocated to this public organisation by the Chernobyl State Fund for the reduction in the amount of Chernobyl pensions, compensations and allowances. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General for violations of legislation in the appointment of the head of the Zupina District State Administration. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Attorney General’s Office on the possible abuse of office and damage to the Odessa National Law Academy by the management of the Academy. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on the case of the resident of Nova Kahovka Kravtsova. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General for ensuring the principle of legality in criminal proceedings. Mr. Nestor Šufrich to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service, Head of the General Audit and Audit Office for the Disbursement of Budget Funds by the leadership of the Zakarpat region between 2000 and 2002 and the Head of the State Committee for Nationalities and Migration in 2003-2004. Vasil Gladys to the Attorney General regarding the situation surrounding the open stock company “Stepok Tribal Plant” of the Barwink district of Kharkiv. John GAVRILUK to the Attorney General for failure to respond to the MP’s appeal regarding illegal logging, abuse by officials of the Skol’s regime and the village head of the Lviv region in the alienation of land for the benefit of natural persons, and lack of response by the prosecutor’s authorities to violations of the Code of Land and Forest. Aleksandra GOLUBA to the Attorney General on violations of legislation in the Kiev Home Economics. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service for the violation of electoral law by officials of the Suma Land Administration. Refata Chubarova to the Attorney General regarding the formal approach of prosecutors in investigating the death of a citizen named Mambetov. Philip BUŽDIGAN to the Attorney-General on the illegal allocation of land under construction in Kiev on the street Nemirovica-Danchenka, occupied with sports facilities and green plantings. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for taking custody of the former head of Lviv’s regional customs, Taras Kozak, as a suspect in crimes that have caused significant damage to the state. Katerina FOMENKO to the Attorney-General on the legality of the activities of the closed association AISE Ukraine. Anatolya KLIMINA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the National Security and Defence Council on the legality of the measures taken to eliminate the strategic deployment of missile forces in the territory of the military in the Gitomirsk region. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the Verification of Violations of Article 161 of the Criminal Code, Head of the Regional Health Administration in the Plains region. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, on the assessment of the activities of the law enforcement authorities in the region of Tsurupina in connection with the opening of criminal proceedings and the protection of the rights of employees of local governments. YURIA SIRKA to the Attorney General for not allowing residents of the Demidiv district of Ostrig and Kuznetsovsk District to elect members of the district council. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the facts of misconduct and inaction of the head of the Kyiv territorial electoral commission and other members of the commission on the election of the deputy of the Kiev City Council on 27 March 2005 in which there are signs of crime. [[ASADZOV, ROBOT, LABEDOVI]] Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Attorney-General for the non-use of local authorities and the Prosecutor's Office of the Krolevetsky district of the Suma Region of the relevant measures regarding the illegal alienation of shares of the open shareholders association “Kralewecké khrůd“. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service on the facts of illegal privatization of the “Ternopil Things Market” and violation of the constitutional rights of employees of the company. Anatoly OF DOMANS to the Attorney General concerning the unbiased, prejudiced and improper consideration of the civil case of disabled persons and groups by the Corestinian District Court of the Gitomir region. Boris RYKOVA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the elimination of violations of criminal and procedural legislation and on ensuring that the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Cherkas region are properly dealt with in relation to the Open Shareholders' Association, the “Cherkas Paint Factory Aurora”. Petra SIMONENKA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the weaknesses in Ukraine’s electricity industry. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Defense for the preparation for the transfer of military towns to the municipal property of the territorial community of the New Guinean Rural Council of the Zitomir Region. Vladimir PETREN to the Ministry of Health regarding the negative impact of the high - frequency tower in Suma on human health. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the recovery of children of the past children's sports clubs and children's sports schools, which are part of the fourth pollution zone in connection with the accident at the Chernobyl AES. People's Deputies' Groups to the Minister of Economics on the violation by the head of the Zeynal legislation on the purchase of goods for public funds. [[COMAR, KING, CORSACOV]] VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of diagnostic equipment for the clinic of the city’s central hospital No. 2 of the city of Žitomir. The aunts of ZATH to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of ambulances to the Kovalów District Hospital in the district of the district of Kyiv. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the recovery of children in the Corestinian region of the Žitomir region who live in an area polluted by an accident in the Chernobyl AES. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Education and Science on the renovation of the sports school No. 6 of the city of Ohtyrka Sumska District. Vassila SLAVIH to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the appropriateness of making changes in the Methodology of calculating the total income of the family. ARREST CLIMPUSHA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the use of public budget funds for the implementation of the Biodiesel Development Programme and energy-saving technologies in the agro-industrial complex. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Non-execution of the Ukrainian Ministry of Law on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine in part of the distribution and use of funds on roads of municipal property, primarily in rural areas. Paul MATVIENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in financing the Centre for Social and Psychological Rehabilitation and informing the population about the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in the city of Korstoń of the Žitomir region. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the settlement of housing subsidies. The Ministry of Economics’ division of ŽIŽKA for the gasification of the inhabited areas of the Ternopil region. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the National Comprehensive Programme of Social and Medical Care for War veterans. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Minister of Education and Science on the construction of the Precarpathian military-sports aircraft in the village of the town of Ivano-Frankiv district. Paul Silent to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the conservation of the Regional Landscape Park “Granite Steps of Pobužja” in the Mikolai district. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Ministry of Health regarding the situation in the neurosurgery of medicine in Lvivščina, which resulted from the absence of devices for computer tomography. Vladimir NOVACA to the Ministry of Defence concerning the use of the territory and the construction of the military town No. 36 in the village of Ruda Kamyanec-Podil district of Hmelnitsk district. MICHELLE MELNIKA to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the days worked in the area of radioactive pollution by a citizen named Romanchuk. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Ministry of Finance, the liquidator of the Agro-Commercial Stock Exchange Bank “Ukraine” for the return of funds from the Bank “Ukraine” to the Sverdlov City Budget. To the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Human Rights Council of the United States of Ukraine, responsible for the baseless charges of police officers who, while transferring the arrested ex-governor of the Zakarpatsky region of Ivan Rizak to SZO on the basis of a court decision, acted in accordance with the Constitution, as opposed to the national deputies who conducted the theatrical provocation, violating the entire range of Ukrainian laws. MICHELLE’S COMMUNITY to the Minister of Justice regarding the delay in carrying out executive action on the ruling of the Hursson Regional Court. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Minister of Finance, Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of State Tax Administration, on sources of financing for the aural rehabilitation of the Ternopil Airport and payment of debts on salary to local airline employees prior to the President’s visit. Vladimir Pekhoti and Mikola Komara to the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, the Minister of Interior, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the situation of the capture of Orthodox temples and the persecution of believers in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate for political beliefs in the western and central areas of Ukraine. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on financial and material and technical support for agricultural and farm farms engaged in the resurgence of the animal sector of Hersonian. Petra TLOČKA to the head of the National Bank for the inadmissibility of building a new building in Suma, the National Bank’s headquarters in Suma. Oleg BILORUS to the city’s Kiev head, head of the Pension Fund’s governing body for the cessation of the compulsory collection of debts for municipal services for the recalculation of the pension to the Fedash citizen and the unacceptable conduct as a representative of the state of deputy head of the Darnitsky District State Administration. Mr. Vladimir PETREN to the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities on the cost of services for the inequitable supply of housing in Suma. Vladimir BONDARENKA to Kiev City Head for information on citizens who received or purchased apartments in a Yakoubovsky Street building, which was financed by the city community for housing purposes solely for residents of the residential and utility farms of Kiev. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the construction of a tall residence on the site of the Artesian well on Vernadsky’s prospectus. MICHELLA TO THE Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the construction of a residential building for young scientists at the National Academy of Sciences in Ukraine on the street of Autozad. MICHAEL RADIO to the head of the Court of Auditors to verify the implementation of the government program to honor the memory of the victims of war and political repression. Alexander GOLUBA to the head of the Pension Fund’s government for refusing to retire to a scientific pension. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market for refusing to register shares with the open stock company Trust “Kyivmiskbud –3”. Kirila POLIŠKUKA to head the State Highway Service for the cost of repairing roads in Yagotini. John BOKHO to the Kiev City Head, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the removal of Kyiv’s higher vocational and technical school for the construction and design of a land plot on Shepelev Street. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the head of the Security Service on the need for the immediate removal of the citizen of the Russian Federation of Alksnis from entry into Ukraine. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Mr. ČERNOVOL to the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the situation surrounding the open-ended “Chernigian Breadcombinate” association and the involvement of the relatives of the Attorney-General and the investigation into the assassination of a citizen of the Garden. Mr Matvienkov and Mr Ivan Vernidubov to the head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General for the Investigation of the Situations and Results of Activities. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission for the purpose of requesting members of the Ivano-Frankov District Council to take the elderly children’s health camps to benefits for electricity consumption. Igora ŠURMI to the head of the State Property Fund for providing information on the legality of the privatisation process of the Zaporezki Abrasive Combine, the Kerchen Shipbuilding Plant “The Gulf”, the Bahchisarai cement plant and the purpose of reviewing the results of the privatization of these objects. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the abuse of office and the illegal interference in the activities of the High Council of Justice of the People's Deputies, Jaroslav Kendzior and Stepan Davimuk. [[CLUE, ISAIAH, AND OTHERS]] The branch of the Head of the Institute of State and the right of name of the National Academy of Sciences of Korea, the Rector of the National University of Kiev, Taras Shevchenk, on the lack of a proper response to plagiarism. Anatolya MOROZA to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for damages to the citizen of Popov Petr Fedorović, a resident of the village of Devinsky Priazova region of Zaporez Region, as a result of the forced removal of property by the district department of the State Executive Service of the Priazov district of Zaporez Region on the basis of a misjudgment of the court of first instance. Jury SOLOMATAN to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney-General, on the immediate objectivity of media reports on the involvement of citizens of Ukraine, John Plush, Peter Prashenko Eugene Reddenek, Mikoli Korpan, in concealing the real circumstances and causes of the candidate's illness with the President of Ukraine, and now with the President of Ukraine. Oleg TJAGNIBOK to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General, on the facts of the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the Tumen Oil Company as a result of the Lisican IDP's task of greatly damaging the environment of Ukraine, increasing the cost of oil products and the cost of the project in particular large amounts. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on terms and procedures for reimbursement of interest - free bonds for the purchase of light cars and household equipment. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy, head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Water Management, on the status of water supply for agricultural irrigation in Ukraine. Mr. Ivana Gerasimov, Alla ALEXANDROV to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for not allowing the sale of the Kharkiv garrison home of officers. Thus, honourable national MPs have made 142 parliamentary inquiries. Factions: Our Ukraine - 19, communist - 21, Ukraine - 23, SDPU - 8, Ukraine - 2, the People's Party - 6, Socialist Party - 12, Timoshenko - 6, Industrial and Business Party - 4, Ukrainian People's Party - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 1, Democratic Ukraine - 5, non-fractional - 13. Yes. Dear National Deputies, Dear People’s Deputies, before you go over the matter of our future schedule, please write it down with a motive of five minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Jaroslav Kenzior, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u2	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine" faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today our meeting would traditionally begin, as it did in previous days, with the announcement of what you have done with the MP's requests and statements, the messages from the MPs and the factions. And today, I think we need to preserve this tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u3	Sergey Babourin, Communist faction. Alexi, I'm sorry, Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u4	Catherine Samuel, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u5	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to address you, to the leadership of the Supreme Council, and I am also very much asking you not to violate the established regulations of today. And the time that should be allocated to making statements from the factions must remain. Because, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a relationship with our voters, the voters should hear our thoughts, our statements. And I'm asking you very much, though, to give us time to make statements. What's more, we just got here from work in the districts, we have a lot of pressing issues. People need to feel that the higher legislator of our authority responds to these questions, these questions that we face during our meetings and receptions at our public receptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u6	Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u7	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I support the previous two speakers for statements from factions and the rest of the time, please hand over the Thurman deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u8	Please, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u9	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. We signed today, a number of delegates from the mining regions, about the critical situation in Lesicanskougle. For two months, the executive service of the city of Lesicanska blocked the accounts of Lesicanskugla. One requirement: to settle the accounts payable. Today's coal debt. is 10 billion. For two months, mining families sit without bread, without a piece of bread. I approached the Minister of Justice yesterday to clear up the accounts, to unlock the accounts. On 31 May, there was an unprecedented decision by the Chief of Justice, Ivanz, to withdraw 10 million budgets in favour of private entities and other debt repayment structures. It's a critical situation. It's in town today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u10	People's deputy Korge, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Please pass the word to Oleg Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u12	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, two special questions are being considered today, but it is very difficult to accept that factions are losing the opportunity to make statements, to make speeches. I would like to recommend that for the future, if this is not possible today, we do not mix the factions with the discussion of special issues. Because factions don't have a chance to speak anyway. I insist that from each bill every faction, whether small or large, have one minute to declare its position. Without that, no legislative decision can be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u14	And Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u15	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. Yesterday, in the agenda of the session, there was Bill 7431 on resource management of oil products. This is a very important bill that we should consider right now in Parliament, because we are already going to collect early crops and not just that. But today, on June 1st, the agenda is given, and Bill 7431 is not included. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put this question to the vote, let the hall be determined. And yet if we're able to look at the bill, the villagers are really looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, regarding the proposal made by Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk. Yesterday, the Supreme Council twice refused to address the issue. The question was twice put to the vote. With regard to speeches by MPs and factions. Dear colleagues, you've been here for 45 minutes and we've almost done the right thing. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, applications and communications are issued for 45 minutes. So we're out of time. That's the first one. Second of all, respectable colleagues. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that today we would announce the questions and move on to the consideration of the issues, since we have three hours to deal with them. Once again, all the factions say there's a rule, there's a 45-minute rule. What? Dear colleagues, let's make some changes to the Rules, where we clearly record one minute that we're making requests, and then we're left with a clean half hour, 45 minutes. We make that change, we work. We were just working on a routine, that's all. So let's make a decision, let's make a decision. Well, dear fellows, please! What? I mean, please tell me, what did I break the Rules with? What am I going to put to the vote? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Then we will not consider the questions that we agreed to consider yesterday. Last night, all the factions unanimously supported it. The day after tomorrow, we'll have another block. Okay. I am voting on the proposal: who is in favour of withdrawing from the Rules and further delegating 45 minutes for statements from the rostrum for authorized representatives of MPs and factions? Please determine by vote. [[10:43:47]] For 231 Please enter the entries on the speeches by the MPs and factions. What can I do? By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 66, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 20, People's Party - 1, Block Timoshenko - 28, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 3, "Democratic Ukraine" - 1, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, non-fractional - 8. So, dear colleagues, we don't need to hold meetings of the conciliatory board, but we need to solve all the problems in the session room. I want to tell the leaders of the MPs and factions that you're putting me in front of the Ukrainian people's deputies. You agree on one thing and then you act the other way. Yes, please welcome Catherine Samuel from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished listeners! Today is the International Day for the Protection of the Rights of the Child, and I don't think there's any doubt that without worrying about the children, their physical, mental development, the spirituality and morals of the country have no future. Despite the fact that in the development of the UN's ratified conference on children's rights, Ukrainian national MPs are proposing appropriate legislation, the problem of childhood and the protection of its rights remains. And I'm today on behalf of the Communist Party faction and as head of the All-U.K. Women Workers' Union for Ukraine's Children's Future, I want to say that unfortunately, children's rights need more effective and effective protection, they need an urgent solution at the highest level of government. Among the priorities is the shameful phenomenon of child trafficking. Surprisingly, behind the reports of various charitable organizations, foreign religious sects are savvy plots that miraculously allow us to enter the most precious of our children’s souls and lives, while Satan’s markets are free of charge to sell out our genetic foundation. That's where the activity field for the power structures is. As adults, we have not solved the problem of accessibility to health care, especially for rural children. Only 35 percent are accounted for in preventive care facilities. And instead of legally settling these problems, we're wasting a lot of time discussing whether or not to import Bush's scissors, another questionable quality of production for our children, we're discussing the mythical jobs of places that would seem to arise from the donor raw material for the non-existent APC. And this noodle on our citizens' ears is distributed in the hall. Everything from the wicked one for the personal benefit of those who so zealously lobby these questions. The faction of the Ukrainian Company requires the government to resolve the issue of proper dieting, to cancel the list of medicines that are available free of charge according to the prescriptions of children, to ensure that secondary education is compulsory, as we have 20 percent of the children do not receive it. The problem of homelessness remains acute, and it is surprising that the government is leading this problem into the construction of shelters for these children. The faction proposes the following year to announce in Ukraine the year of our children’s salvation, otherwise we all live in vain in this world. And this year, not in the palace of Ukraine, but where our homeless children are homeless. You and I need to make sure that the child feels like his own son or daughter of a large family called Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u18	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I am finally able to carry out the electoral mission of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Blackwall. Here before me is a small portion, about 40,000 signatures gathered naturally, by the electorate of this constituency with a requirement, a definite requirement for a deputy mandate to the deputy to the Supreme Council of Taras Chernobyl. The rest are collected in total about 100,000 signatures. This is far more than was voted in favour of the national MP, Taras Czarnovol. These signatures were gathered in connection with this position, as voters call it, by the political prostitution of their national MP. Every signed letter says, "Deputy Tarase Czarnovole, I am signing my signature to recall you from the Ukrainian Parliament, you have betrayed my voice, you have betrayed the ideas of your father, Viacheslav Crnovola, and you have become a danger to the future, the truth of an independent Ukraine. Get the sellers out of the Supreme Council!" It is true that if a person had at least a little of his conscience and conscience toward his electorate. I'm not talking about anything else anymore. She would certainly lay down the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy. I want to show you, my dear colleagues, a very small portion of the publications in the lion's newspaper. He betrayed not only his father, but also his mother, but also his national idea, the headlines: "Torture is not forgiven by God," "Sikh says "No" to Taras Chernobyl, "The show of "political harlots," "Personal surrender of Blackwall," "The Breaker," "The Blackstone disgraces Sikhs," "30 silver pieces for Taras Blackwall," "Black truth for Black ox," and so on and so on and so forth. So, dear friends, the voters of the Sikh constituency of Taras Crnovola understand that the legal forces of these natural-gathered signatures have no signatures, but after my speech today and the demonstration of the will of the electorate, they will have moral and political satisfaction, and they claim that they renounce their national MP and they believe that the constituency does not have a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u20	The replica. Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The elemental hammocks that have now spoken do not need comments, so I will not comment on them. But there are a few nuances. First. With regard to the subject of recall, the so - called Kendiser and several of his associates. It was about what he said, Taras Cranville thinks a little differently than Victor Yushchenko, Jaroslav Kenzior, and others think. For you. That I have a different political position, and I have a different appreciation for political events. Persecution from political positions is exactly the kind of thing that today -- it's a good thing that today it came from the rostrum -- is going to be heard in the Supreme Council today. I haven't made any complaints about the MP's work, I haven't made any allegations that I've been faking elections or doing anything else. Only from a political point of view. This is the confirmation of the accounts that will be in the course of today’s hearing. And the last. I'm asking you to add, literally, 10 seconds. I have information, first of all, that all the statements were made about the recall of the 115th constituency in Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u22	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u23	That 115 constituencies are in Lugansk, not Lviv. It is understandable who prepared the action and that it was not even prepared in Lviv. And the second. They approached people, and the organizers were also told on television, and in the press that they were not gathering anywhere in the churches or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're inviting Mikola Komar, faction of the Ukraine region. Prepare Vadim Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u25	Before starting the talk, I would like to pay attention to such exquisite insolence or how it is. Today, Vladimir Mikhailovich Cnerovola welcomed his birthday. That's it, by the way. Dear colleagues! Having been thoroughly familiar with the 2006 budget policy outline, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" is focusing on the over-politicization and insufficient justification of this document. The main objective of the project is not to define the basic principles for the formation of the budget, but to polarize the preceding parliamentary elections in 2006 with populist socio-political slogans. That's why, given the exclusively declarant content of this document, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" prepared its own proposals and made a principle position on the Budget Resolution. As a result of the inefficient economic policy of the current government, faction members are stressing the critical lack of funding for social programs. In this way, MPs believe that it is impossible to obtain a deficit of the State budget within two percent, an incorruptible review of economic social policy. National MPs insist on ensuring the public and transparency of the budgetary process in order to bring to the attention of the local authorities detailed calculations, the predictable volume of inter-budget transfers and the methods of determining them. There is a need to ensure that local budgets are fully balanced by delegated powers by realising the projected amount of income and the calculated amount of local budgets. The faction of the "Ukraine region", which represents the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens and has their support, insists on improving the procedures for budgeting and budgeting by ensuring the uniformity of spending over the year. According to members of the faction, changes should be made to determining the size of the financial standard of budgetary security for each type of local budget expenditure, laying down an appropriate social standard. Among other things, the members of the "Regions of Ukraine" have insisted on strengthening targeted support for low-income and socially vulnerable citizens, medical and children's institutions, by promoting charitable activities in Ukraine. To the belief of the faction members, the 2006 draft of the main budget policies proposes to continue the wrong practice of building effective legislation under the budget rather than informing the budget on the basis of current legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u26	Yes. Vadim Gurov is invited to take part in the presentation by the deputy faction "The One Ukraine", followed by John Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u27	What's BUTT? Here, the future has nothing to do with it. BUT has a record of the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u28	Well, there's two of them. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Economics, like nature, cannot be deceived. What has happened to the mining complex and how will this affect our country's economy? This was predicted, predicted. It happened so fast, of course, no one expected. The main thing is such a strategic loss of markets, 80 per cent of exports. Lack of domestic markets, 29 per cent instead of 67 international practices. And, of course, outdated technologies with huge energy equipment. Consider for yourself: China has only increased 50 million tons of steel in 2004 and continues to take the same steps, which is our market. And instead of the importer, he became an exporter. At the warehouses, the dead goods were piled up without the release of about 40 million tons of prokata and the overheated economy was said to have been overheated. This is the case with one State alone, and the other producers are not lagging behind. And against the backdrop of these events, the situation of our steel industry is catastrophic. I'm not afraid of those words. Time, given the fact that many factories are uncompetitive in these conditions, high cost and no one will be able to sell. Weaker enterprises have now been the first to slow down production. So the McKeev combination is completely stopped for three months because it's had 50 million losses a month. Eleven ovens have been stopped. And most importantly, I'm asking for your attention, this is where the chain reaction came from. Transferred to an extended cycle of coxochemical plants. From here on out, what do you do to the coal miners? That's the main question right now. The stock cannot be saved - it cannot be burned, it cannot be reduced production. Non-standard decisions of the Government and the Supreme Council, including those of the Government, are now required. This situation has emerged from the small victories of our economists and financiers. Everyone fought against fat cats, and they did not want to see that they would affect the workforce, their earnings and their well-being. Rail tariffs have been raised by 50 per cent. There was a sharp increase in the cost of use. The dollar rate is a direct hit on exporters. NDS is a billion and a half. Bye. They were tall, the metal industry was able to withstand these innovations. But right now, at least stop and lower your appetites. My offer. The situation of the commission under Prime Minister Timoshenko, in which the members of the Supreme Council are also involved, is being developed for stabilization activities. But we need to look at the situation in 1998, when it was through its clear intervention that Parliament adopted the law on experimentation in the mining and metallurgical complex. And I pay tribute to the former President of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u29	One minute, BUT gives away its own. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u30	who has entered this position, which has entered into it and has worked as an employer, and Parliament has worked ahead of time. Time therefore requires decisive action. And now, the distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich and fellow MPs, I hope that Parliament will join in this work. The question, I think, is no less important than the meat and gasoline combined. The coal industry is left behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u31	John Sidorovich Boki is invited from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Michael Warthought.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u32	The Socialist faction in the Supreme Council is concerned about the situation in the area of state regulation of the Internet. Socialists claim that the least intervention by public authorities can in any way limit Internet resources rights, as well as create unequal conditions of competition for Internet media is unacceptable. Today, the Internet remains the basis for the undeniable conquest of the orange revolution, freedom of speech, and freedom of the media. The main feature of the Internet is the absence of any restrictions, regardless of what good intentions they were trying to impose. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, offering a national registration project, has affected an area in which the State should not intervene. It is because of the free Internet that the idea of an orange revolution has given them support throughout the world. Linking the Ministry’s management to the fact that the media’s registration is based on the decision of the previous government does not withstand criticism. First of all, the Yanukovich government had serious reasons for interfering with the Internet. Secondly, the orange revolution has just taken place so that the most important question of society's life can be solved by taking into account the demands of the public, not just on ministerial grounds. It is only through the free Internet that society learns about many resonance events in Ukraine. Only on the Internet can you find out, for example, about the scandal in the village of Kozin and about the details of the conflict involving the distribution of state funds to high officials. The Internet is for our authority a mirror that never lies. The Internet itself is the main opposition to our authority, and without opposition the normal development of Ukrainian society is impossible. Socialists demand that the Ministry of Transport and Communications cancel its order to register Internet resources before the adoption of the special law by the Supreme Council. The relevant bill will be submitted by the Socialists to Parliament for consideration. His idea will be simple and concise. Any state interference with the Internet in any form is unacceptable. Where people can and should work freely and communicate, the state should not dictate its rules. We are deeply concerned about the negative reaction of the media to the Ministry. This is an alarming signal: Journalists are criticizing the new authorities for this, and the authorities are not counting on their position. As new authorities, we do not have the right to lose confidence. Socialists call on the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers to draw attention to the problem of strengthening freedom of speech. When it comes to freedom of speech, it means that it is threatened that unhealthy processes begin in the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u33	Mikhailo Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. He's behind him, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Ukrainian National Party is authorized to make a statement on the need to intensify the fight against corruption. Despite the positive changes that followed the presidential elections, in the fight against crime, the UNP has found that unfortunately, a systemic, qualitative breakthrough in the fight against corruption has not yet taken place. And often, after having survived a short - term fright, overpainting, corruption continues to be a storm, and where it creeps into the cabinets of the new government. By implementing the President of Ukraine's Yushchenka programme on the first-line measures to be adopted in the fight against corruption and organized crime, namely: statements to issue a decree on mandatory declaration of the income of senior officials by members of the UNODC faction have been drafted and a bill has been tabled to Parliament on mandatory declaration of income and expenditure of senior civil servants I, II and III, as well as members of local self-government bodies, a bill by the deputy. The specificity of the bill is that officials and their family members are obliged to declare not only income but also expenses each year, for our officials do not have any income with expenditure. Members of the Warfare and Warfare factions have already introduced changes and additions to the existing Anti - Corruption Act to increase accountability for corruption. Dear colleagues, Charles Montesquie wrote: "We have seen from the experience of the ages that any person who has power is inclined to abuse it and will go in this direction until it reaches the right goal. Of course, corruption is not a purely Ukrainian phenomenon. The corrupt criminal of the past became one of the main reasons that led people to Midan. Our electorate wants, not by word, but by deed, such a disgusting phenomenon as corruption, to be removed from our lives. The faction will not allow bribers, corrupters, who have bent the entrepreneurs of Donbas, Zacarpathia, Kiev, to take action, to lead people to suicide, to criminally steal natural resources, to appear to be innocent hearty sheep politically persecuted. "Ganditam - Prisons!" - this slogan of the Ukrainian Orange Revolution should be implemented, regardless of the costs and forces behind the bandits and in which the skins of yesterday's Donetsk, Hungarian "watchers" and Kiev's "centres". The phrase 'power today is stronger than ever, one chancellor must find confirmation in real matters. The rule of law must be stronger than ever, only then will we overcome corruption and crime, do the will of our constituents. This is what the Ukrainian People’s Party wants, and that is what the Ukrainian People’s Party will do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u35	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich is invited to the presentation. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u36	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, on World Children’s Day, the People’s Party’s Dept. If nothing is done, tens of thousands of boys and girls, mostly from poor rural families living in polluted areas, will not be able to go to the sanatorium and rest camps. Paradox: On the one hand, the state seems to care for these children. If you judge by the number of trips. For example, the Plains region received much more than it did in previous years, but at the same time, the Ministry of Emergency Situations significantly reduces funding for the organized delivery of schoolchildren to places of health. Starting in April, the Equinox did not receive a single penny from the ICC, even from the cut costs. And if motorists are still driving kids into credit, the railways aren't going to do that. So the left doesn't know what the right does. The road's on fire. As a result, more than two million of them have already been taken away from the country’s 740 - year - olds. What will happen in June, July, and August is not known at all, since the existing funds of the Social Protection Fund, which heals most rural children, are primarily aimed at paying for the multiple state aid to families at the birth of a child. The fund’s district offices are forced to pay for travel to health care facilities in a massive way. In addition, people are already complaining about the quality of food and the conditions of being in sanatoriums. In turn, they explain the MNE’s debt situation for the purchases. This is true of local health facilities. For example, from the beginning of May sanatorium. At Equinox, he started to heal the children, but today the facility can't function properly, because in the first minute the children still haven't got the money. We reap the fruits of centralized travel purchases, from which the faction of the People’s Party warned at the beginning of the year. The cause of pain is banal, and the solution does not require any additional funds. And if the solution still lingers, that means it's convenient for someone. So I would like to go to Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine and ask him to look into the situation and find the culprits. And one more thing. In the Plain region alone, the 2002 travel debt is over two million dollars. The budget costs are predictable, but they don't come to the table either. During the 2003-2004 period, the government forgot at all. Thus, the National Party’s faction has repeatedly drawn the government’s attention to these problems, since they relate to social guarantees mainly to the part of the population that lives in the rural area. Please consider my statement a request to Prime Minister of Ukraine Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u37	Oleg Belarus, the BUT faction, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u38	Honorable MPs and citizens! It's Children's Day. A few days ago, our faction accepted the disciples of the Voiceman, and we realized once again that the children of Ukraine needed protection. Their rights to life, education, and development will be protected. Today, there are too few children in Ukraine and our future development depends on it. Ukraine should have a 100 million-dollar family, which means that every Ukrainian family should have 3, 4, 5 children. As one who was born in a multi - child family, I believe that this is our social historical imperative. To do this, the government has to solve the problem of cheap housing, social housing. That's why we can't express our satisfaction at the fact that the Supreme Council actually passed a bill yesterday on 3% loans for low-cost housing, and in this respect all factions, regardless of their political orientation, should work for citizens, for families, for the protection of the Chernobyl children. We took the initiative to support the action and to create a fund for the treatment of children with cancer. Today, black people generally have lower pensions than the pensions of ordinary citizens. So far, there is no signed agreement between the Chernobyl Union and the government. Government debt reached 580 million. This agreement needs to be signed immediately, and the MCS needs to deal with the matter. Dear colleagues, I call on all deputies to support the government in solving Ukraine's most pressing social problems. The unity of power, the unity of our factions here in the Supreme Council -- the guarantee of Ukraine's success! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u39	Anatoly Moroz, the Democratic Ukraine MP group, has a word for this. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u40	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, group "Democratic Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The "Democratic Ukraine" group addresses the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, to solve the following problem. In the Tokmati district and the city of Tokmak, Zaporezí region, there was a military section of the A-2213, which served the military airport. Last year, part of it was decomposed and its assets transferred to the A-3840 military. [[Melitopol]] All necessary work has been done by the management of Tokmaka and the Tokmatic region, together with military command over the years 2004-2005 to prepare the necessary documents for the transfer of military property to the municipal property of the city of Tokmak and the Tokmatic region. [[418 hectares of land, 49 properties]] Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has not in its own time made the appropriate decision on the transfer of the property, but the documents to the funds of the Ministry of Defence, which greatly complicates the prospect of solving a number of problems of the socio-economic development of the city and the region. A large portion of the land area, 150 hectares, is under the iron concrete plates of the PAG-18. At the same time, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine is taking unforeseeable action, unilaterally deciding to dismantle and sell plates. Today, these works are active, and some 7,000 gasses have been dismantled and exported outside the airport. At the site of the plates, there is a plot of land with remnants of building materials, resins, prunes, sand. As the land of the decommissioned airport is still to be used. As an agricultural arrangement, after the plate has been removed, there is a need to reclaim the designated lands, as required by article 166 of the Earth Code. But along with this, no military preparatory work on earth’s regeneration is being carried out today and is not foreseen for the future. In view of this, the public of Tokmaka and the Tokmatic region are concerned that the airport is being dismantled without regard to the interests of the city’s population and the area, and are concerned that after the dismantling and sale of the plates and building materials, they will disappear, leaving the area, the military and destroyed land. From the issues noted, residents of the city and the area regularly turn to local executive authorities, and in the workplaces and organizations, questions are raised in printed and oral forms. Along with this, the dismantling and sale of plates continues today. On the basis of the foregoing, we ask you to facilitate the immediate cessation of the dismantling of the aircraft before finalizing the question of how and who will be involved in the recycling of the land of the former 150 ha airport. "Democratic Ukraine" asks for a trade-off to solve this problem. It will be easier to embalm, then it will be difficult to solve urgent problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u41	Igor Šurma has the floor to speak from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u42	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, I think today is a historic day and a sign. Because despite the celebration of the Day of Child Protection, this day must be called a day of new power cynicism in Ukraine. What is worthwhile is the declaration of transparency and charity, and the propriety for the help of the Ukrainian people. Today, everyone greets children with a day of protection. Today, the first violator of the Ukrainian Constitution is the Minister of Health, who is the National Deputy of Ukraine, is sending a commission to liquidate the Ochmadit medical facility. One of the best medical facilities in the world is not just Ukraine. This is the care of childhood: to take a place of health care, a place of work for medical personnel, with great concern for a new Ukrainian official. The Ministry of Health should move there to have comfortable seats. And they move for one reason: in a rich Ukraine, where there are modest Democrats who have come to power, today the President of Ukraine is being prepared for the Marian Palace. And in that Marianine Palace, the President will issue great decrees on the protection of Zaporozhye Sichi, Baturin, forgetting that this complex was built by Queen Elizabeth, who was never in Kiev. It contained Catherine, whose associates issued Valuish, German decrees forbidding the Ukrainian language. These are double standards. Today, these people, who are sitting on the case today and who have brought the new President to power, have offered us not only this, but they have offered us a new form of democracy. It's about putting people on the streets of Banks for two months to observe, meet them as walkers with Lenin, with the President of Ukraine, and then set up a two-metre blue wall, and then take off a beautifully-spoken brick. The reason is, we're repairing the road. The other one, we put in new money, we put in a new one. And today I would like to highlight one more. I want to say hello to my former political opponent, Taras Blackwall, and say, "Taras, don't pay attention to this provocation of a man who hasn't even built a doghouse in his life." And those signatures that were going to, I'll tell you. And they looked like this: and they came into the house, and said, Do ye want the waters of Lviv to be round about? - Yes. - Sign the water, "Water, yes, you don't." And I did.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u43	Yes, Vladimir Puzakov and Bunny have been reluctant to respond to parliamentary requests. All necessary documents have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u44	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština All in this room know how many MPs and phone calls and speeches I have made to find the truth to help the person who has been lied to and left behind. This is the case with a Communist, a district council member. This man is known to many of you, this is Ogir Vladimir Ivanovich, the former Head of the New Ukrainian Region's NSP. Why the Ex? You can't find the answer to that question for a year. In April-month, I made a parliamentary request to the minister of the interior of Lucenka because he believed that he would take care of the matter personally and that he would eventually be able to bring everything into clean water. But there are no reasons why this did not happen. I do not blame him for this, for he hoped that he would be surrounded by decent, conscientious people who could be trusted. But no one has ever investigated the issues raised in my question. And they rewrote the same lie to a new leaf, replaced the date, the document number, and sent it. And so mentally mutilated by lies, man again received a lie instead of the truth. I'll take that fact. In February 2002, masked persons penetrated the window before the level office, smashing everything, even the floor, hijacking money, television, copiers, and telephone devices. The police were immediately recognized, and they identified who it might have been. And for the time being, this crime is still undiscovered. The following fact: On May 25, last year, a general meeting was to take place. Of course, it is unknown who invited the police and the police. Prosecutor to the district. And when Ogil came to the microphone to announce the start of the congregations, the same drunken crowd rushed to Ogir, twisted his hands, and those who began to defend Ogre were scattered. And all of this happened in the presence of the police and the district prosecutor's office, who were looking at it with a smile. The congregations did not take place, the people came out of the hall, and the drunkards and those who supported them held congregations and illegally chose the new head of Battle, to whom Ogir prevented stealing. And Ogir was charged with this gang plot. But that didn't end. Ogir was under attack, and only he was charged with it. Where is the truth? Who will help him to find it? I would like to ask my friend Lucenka when the slogan of your patron, the Yushchenka, is that bandits should be in prison. I'm asking you to count my speech as a re-deputy request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u45	Please, Bunny, on the question of dissatisfaction with the Minister of Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. For more than two years, I have been making inquiries to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to assist in the settlement of the debt of the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant in front of the Parus power plant in the town of Sevastopol. No wage has been paid at the factory since 1998. 804 people have such debt, of which 235 are still employed. For questions and questions sent to the Ministry, I was informed that the matter was being examined by the Supreme Court of Arbitration and that the final measures concerning the debt-recovery mechanism could only be determined after the decision of the court. The President of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine informed me that it had been decided to settle the debt in favour of the Sevastopol Savings Plant Parous. However, despite the court's ruling for more than six months, no effective relative solutions to the problem of the elimination of the debt of an nuclear power plant outside the Parous plant have occurred. As a result, I have prepared a parliamentary request for the Minister of Fuel and Energy to take the necessary measures to address the issue of debt. As a result, a further write-off was received. The parliamentary request was not properly considered. I request that you consider the request of Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Vladimirovna to repay the debt of the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant on the State Order to the Open Shareholder Society, the Parous plant and the inactivity of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, the State Property Fund to promote the Sevastopol Ambulance Plant, Parus, in the payment of the salary established since 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u47	Thank you. Mikola Onichuk from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. While Mikola Onichtuk is coming, I haven't read another question, dear colleagues. This is a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay off the debt owed to the Zaporozhye AES before the VAT "Parus" and the inaction of the Minister of Fuel, Energy, the State Property Fund in support of the "Parus" collective to pay off the wages incurred since 1998. The question was the Rabbit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u48	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs states that recent months have shown that the process of rebuilding the country is not easy and always clear. They base both inherited imbalances in many areas of economic and social activity and deep erosion of moral values, and some new calculations are made. The practice of making recent decisions has shown that economics, economic events, and economic processes are least conducive to radical change. This has led, in particular, to the negative perception of the entrepreneurial environment of attempts to redistribute property, to strengthen corporate administration, to change the conditions for tax deterioration and to affect the overall business environment. The faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs believes that the defining factor in the economic well-being of the country, which means that the social wealth of citizens is the national economy, the attractive investment climate, the feeling in ordinary citizens, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that they need, that their efforts are appreciated and they are needed. The faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs in Parliament and its representative, in particular, in the government, the First Vice-Prime Minister Anatoly Kinakh, will continue to be a consistent priority for the national producer before the import, the continuity of ownership relations in front of the redundancies, the forecasting of budgetary policies against counter-radical changes, the State's compliance with the conditions of investment contracts before their unilateral collapse without any prior analysis and damages. The faction will insist that the entire population of government and parliamentary decisions in the area of entrepreneurial activity create a favourable entrepreneurial climate in this area, because the only real source of Ukrainian citizens' wealth, and I think that no one has any doubt about it, is the national producer, the national economy and our internal sources. And that is why these values will be ensured by the practical work of the parliamentary faction of entrepreneurs and industrialists in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! The speeches by MPs and factions have been completed. We've got about an hour and a half to make a statement. Let us now consider the issues that we have agreed on in the schedule of meetings. Dear colleagues, the first issue to be considered is the incident between the Ukrainian National Deputies and law enforcement officials, which took place on May 21, 2005, in the city of Uzhgrad, which resulted in the use of force to the national deputies. I'd like your attention, dear fellows. - this is a rule of procedure for dealing with this issue: Vojsz Vladimir Dmitrovic - up to 10 minutes, Proskuratova Tamara Sergiyevna - up to five minutes, from the Attorney General's Office - information to five minutes and five minutes - answers to questions. [[I think there's gonna be national MPs.]] The same is true for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and for the answers that are likely to arise in the national parliaments. The rest of the time left is to be discussed. So this is an hour. We agreed, in principle. If you propose something else, let's put it to a vote. Please, Igor Shurma. We have two and a half hours to 14 hours left. Igor Shurma, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u50	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm talking to the faction leaders, I'm talking to all the national MPs who are in the room. This question needs to be fully discussed and expressed. At our request, we ask for further information from the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And as a matter of urgency, we ask that we give the floor to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights. Her representatives were in Uzhgorod, and they studied the matter thoroughly. We ask you very much to give your word to the Authorized One.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, if there are no warnings, let's do it: Authorized from human rights -- I just let myself out of my sight for up to five minutes, and the head of the commission on this subject -- also up to five minutes. No warning? What? Happy birthday, please. Dear colleagues, let's work. This is a discussion. Or come to the Conciliation Council, and we'll agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, as a member of the interim commission of inquiry, I am absolutely in favour of and supported this position to be reported by Victor Musiak, but by that report. The information on this case, though by most votes, is a large part of the MPs who have a separate opinion on how the commission head is going to inform accordingly on this incident. So I'm asking you to give me the opportunity, either from the faction, or from the Rules to speak to me personally. I confirmed that on the committee. On the committee, and the members of the commission supported me to express a separate opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, if there's a separate thought in the protocol, we'll give, if there is, I would like to say once again, the chairman of the panel in the presentation will say that there's a separate thought that's formed, I think we should give the right to speak. So let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, let's not turn. Calm down, please. Calm down. Let's work. All of it. Here comes the job. All right, good fellows! The faction manager, if any claims are made, please pass them on. Please welcome Vojsz Vladimir Dmitrović.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u55	One minute! I mean. Dear colleagues, today. I want to tell you again. Today, the Supreme Council has not decided that all the members of the commission will speak. Please calm down. Please come in. Give me the protocol with a separate mind and he'll be speaking. All of it. Once again, a protocol with a separate mind. Anything, please. 10 minutes, please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I would like to present a chain of events, as an eyewitness and a direct participant, to which I was, first and foremost, a party in terms of the rule of law, rights and standards of human morality. The ex-governor of Zakarpatsky District, Ivan Mihajlovich Rizak, was arrested on 13 May. The way it was done right on the street of Uzhgorod, by the way out of the store in front of the citizens, already shows that the show was playing. It's not an act of justice, it's a demonstration of a policy designed to intimidate the Zacarpathians. What was Rizak accused of? In leading to the suicide of the Rector of the Uzhgorod National University, Vladimir Slivka. How? Ivan Rizak allegedly gave oral instructions to the editor of the Zacarpathian newspaper Pravozhist, Mr. Temnov, to highlight the activities of the Rector of Slivka, who headed the university in a negative light. And it seems that after reading fancy fashion novels, the Carpathian prosecutors conclude that Slivka committed suicide by reading the publications in the newspaper. Who can answer the question: Did Rezak give an order to the editor of an independent newspaper? Apparently, the editor and Temnov themselves are answering this question, and in a public editorial in their newspaper Pravozachist of 24 May 5th year. Where it is explained in the newspaper that not only was there a warrant for the trauma of a late professor, but also the meaning of the publications mentioned in the prosecution’s indictment not to be called travail. The circumstances of Mr. Slivka’s death make you think about another question: Was there a suicide? Why is this version alone considered? The opposite of witnesses, the deceased's wife claims that the professor didn't go to work in the morning, and the rector says he was at work and went home on the phone. Relatives for a long time wouldn't allow the dying ambulance brigade. He was taken to the hospital, not in the ambulance, but in a regular car. On the body of the deceased, several knife wounds and a kitchen knife to the heart. All of this suggests that the prosecution would also be able to consider the murder version. But then an artificial pyramid of charges against Rizak will be launched immediately. And that seems to be in conflict with someone's interests. Ivan Rezak's health condition, which suffered a heart attack in February with a whole bunch of severe chronic diseases, requires him to be under medical supervision. Therefore, after his arrest, with the initiative of the investigators, he was transferred to the city hospital first and to the Zacarpathian district cardio centre, where he was being treated as an arrestee, under the protection of the militia. On 20 May, medical forensics were conducted on Ivan Rezaka's health, with gross violations of article 197 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. Pressure is exerted on expert doctors, resulting in the conclusion that Ivan Rezak may be present at the SIZO under mandatory medical supervision. By the evening of 20 May, Rezak's health had deteriorated, despite this, after 18 hours two men had entered the room, representing the head of the IVC and the I.O. Head of the U.S. Department, militia. They read out the written conclusion of doctors that Rezac could be contained in SIZO. A medical doctor, Konevich, and a nurse, who measured the arterial pressure, confirmed the hypertonic crisis. An increase in blood sugar, according to a doctor, could have led to a coma. People's deputies Shufrich, Proshkuratov and I have informed those who have experienced a serious health condition and that it is not possible at this time at the SIZO stage at this time. These militia officers stated that they would act on the basis of the written permission of the on-call physician, and only on this basis would the Rizac phase into SIZO be carried out. At that time, the on-call physician and nurse gave Rizak emergency medical care, injections, pills, and arterial pressure were measured at 180 per 90. About 23 hours ago, the police said for the second time that according to the findings of the forensics conducted 10 hours ago, they would continue to phase Rizak into SIZO. Then Proscuratov attached handcuffs to his hand and hand and declared a hunger strike. However, Tamara Sergeyevna reiterated the severe condition of the patient because he had a hypertensive crisis, and the doctors injected him to lower the arterial pressure. Despite this, at 23 hours, 40 minutes later, between 10 and 15 people in black masks broke into the Rizak Chamber. At the same time, there was no Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or Chief of the U.S. militia in the room. The people in the masks put me up against the wall, took me out of their arms and drowned, and I started yelling loudly that I was a national MP, so they could tell me who they were, but they didn't get an answer from anyone. I said that their actions were illegal. All of this is recorded on an operational video shoot. At that time Shufrich, lying on the same bed with Rizak, was pulled by his feet from the bed, hit his head against the floor, and hit him on the top. I heard him screaming from the pain. The proscuratou was also on the bed next to Rizak, she was hit on the face, a man in a mask came upon her, broke her hand, she was in a handcuffed, she screamed, then cried out in pain, and her face was covered with a pillow. In the other hand, she held a certificate from the Ukrainian people's representative. The man in the mask cut his cuffs with special clips, pulled Rizak off his bed, held his arms, and pulled his shoes into the corridor to get out of the cardiocenter. I ran into the corridor, but people in masks and forms of police officers blocked me and other people from moving on. All the time, I tried to find out who was in charge of the detention process, but none of the police were responding. At that time, through the window, I saw Rezaka being placed in the luggage compartment of a Jeep-type car and being taken away, not to the SIZO, as determined by the court, but to the ISS, because at the SIZO, at 12 o'clock, the arrestees were not admitted. He was in a state of hypertonic crisis until morning held in an IVC basement without medical care. A man could just die. I went back to the room and saw that Shufrich was in a state of shock, and he was sick of it. The proscuratou was under stress. She had a swollen hand and a mammal on her face. Cardiac medical personnel and Boris clinic staff have provided medical care to Shufresz and Proscuratova. An ambulance was called to transport us to the hospital in Uzhgrad. And there was a survey, and the beatings were taken. Schuffritch was diagnosed with a concussion. I would like to state that we, the people's deputies of Ukraine, did not physically interfere with the police in carrying out their duties. People in masks violated the inviolability of the Ukrainian people's deputies and inflicted bodily harm on us. At the time of Rizak's arrest, none of the militia leaders reported that all actions were carried out by police officers, that masked persons were police officers. No one reported that the police had legitimate grounds. VOC cardiocenter risk in a state of hypertonic crisis. I believe that there have been violations of our rights as Ukrainian people's deputies in connection with our State and political activities to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. accompanied by actions that pose a serious risk to our health. In doing so, article 80 of the Ukrainian Constitution was violated, part five of article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. The fact that the charge of leading to suicide could not be proved was clear to the Carpathian prosecutors. Therefore, the Public Prosecutor's Office had unearthed another criminal sensation in coffee shops that Rizak had claimed bribe from a local business director a year ago. And now he's been charged with bribery in addition. But notice, this charge was filed only on 25 May. This means that the seizure of a special cardiocenter, the beating by the police of the Ukrainian people's deputies who protected the constitutional rights of a citizen, the removal from the hospital of a bare-headed person in a state of hypertonic crisis without the authorization of an on-call doctor, was based solely on an absurd charge of suicide. And this is called legitimate action in the name of democracy? Nope. This is a sudden violation of Ukrainian laws and human rights, a political persecution to intimidate the people of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this egregious case has been an excruciating illustration of the arbitrary power in force. He showed that any Ukrainian citizen could at any time be accused of any fabricated case and without any grounds, only on the basis of the subjective opinion of the investigators had been dropped in the SIZO. He showed that the court could well print out the decision needed to investigate. He showed that even if, at the time of the threat of human life, the people's deputies were trying to comply with article 17 of the Law relating to the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, the law enforcement authorities were attempting to take measures to stop violations of human rights by violence against the Ukrainian people's deputies in violation of article 80 of the Constitution. At the same time, the police do not even care about formal compliance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. This case shows that the police, the prosecutor's office and the court are used by the authorities in the fight against political opponents and dissidents. I now want to look into the eyes of those who dare to claim that there are no problems with human rights violations in Ukraine. I want those who cynically justify political repression to stand up now or raise their hand. I want to look at those who refuse to see Ukraine increasingly become a police state. Dear colleagues, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich. I will be followed by heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. On the basis of their statements, it is clear that they will burn their own, defending the honour of the uniform. But only from the MPs and you, as heads of the supreme legislature, are the people waiting for decisions that will end the rule of law. We must strongly condemn illegal acts and punish those responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Tamara Proskuratov. I've just announced, and we've agreed on all procedures and order, dear colleagues. You heard all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u58	Honorable Presidium, honourable MPs, distinguished journalists, dear voters! It is very difficult for me to speak, so I apologize in advance for my emotions. First of all, I welcome from this high rostrum today all the children of our Ukraine and all the world with the Day of Their Protection. A raspberry bell called yesterday to announce the completion of the school year. And my students, they graduated yesterday. I'm supposed to be among them. I'd like to be among them, but I'm only here today to protect their future, their rights to never, ever happen to them what happened to me on Zakarpatta! Dear colleagues, so much about the Zacarpat incident is a version. I'm putting my hand on the Bible, my hand on the Constitution: I swear in every word of it, because I'm not going to tell you any lies today. I am the most obvious witness because I have been near John Rizak for five days. I saw him first placed in an anti - health room when he was organized in a hallway of a lot of militiamen. Where is it? In a cardiological center where people have a heart attack where people are sick. It's to the honor of the governor: when I asked him to stop, John Rizak was transferred to a normal room, and the militias were replaced by just three guys in civilian. I watched the treatment, and one thing struck me was that he was constantly being taken because he had a heart attack with diabetes, and he was constantly receiving blood tests from his finger. And when the labs took it from the same cardiological center, John took the same blood drop from the same device. And so the doctors at the cardiology center said that he had 3-4 sugar in his blood, and his device was showing 9-10-11. We were advised to throw that device away. By the way, none of the doctors who had treated John for ten years had been admitted to treatment. And when we applied to independent labs, we were brought this document, which made me act inadequately: the doctors at the district hospital confirmed his blood sugar analysis of John Rizak's device. And then I realized that the results of the analysis at John Rizak's cardiology center were just falsified. And the guys, the other militias, they said to me, "Tamara Sergiyevna, they're going to take him anyway." I asked one of them to bring me handcuffs. I acted spontaneously. I didn't know what to do with them. And when I realized that John would be taken away, I cuffed myself to John Rizak and declared myself hungry. I, my respected colleagues, did not interfere with the court, but I acted under the third article of the Law of Ukraine. The Constitution: "The people, their lives, their health, honour and dignity are recognized in Ukraine as the highest social value." And article 8, which states that in Ukraine the rule of law is recognized and the rule of law is in force. And I defended John Rizak's right to treatment. And here I swear that I will now do so in respect of every citizen of our nation, regardless of their political affiliation. I was asked if I was hit hard. I don't know. They beat me for the first time. There's a lot of writing in the press, and now it's in the press, about what. I understand that this is in my address: "Dear teachers, don't go to Parliament, because one day you can stand in opposition and then who knows what's going to happen to you." Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer this with the words of Lena Costenko, although I had the opportunity after the election to go to another faction, to be non-fractional, I will say, "I have chosen my fate myself, and what will not happen to me there, I have none."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u59	One minute, give me a chance to finish. Don't yell, I've heard it without you. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u60	"I have no claim to fate--my chosen one." The people of Ukraine, we respect your choice when you were standing on the field, supporting Yushchenka. You were expecting economic growth, improvement in your well-being, but I'm sure you didn't want what's going on in our country today! I've been talking to the law enforcement agencies, too, the D.A.'s office. One thing I have left is to turn to God. God, if you are, there's a lot our president does for Ukraine's external integration, if because of the economic crisis, the artificial growth of the bracelets, the collapse of the Grindhol on Eurowachen doesn't see it, tell him. And if he, God forbid, is himself the director of the collapse of the party of the Communists, the "Regions of Ukraine", send him good health and forgive him -- he doesn't know what he's doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Deputy Attorney General Shokin Viktor Mikolaiovich. Honorary colleagues, the minister, and the Attorney General are on a mission. That's why we got -- abroad -- we got the right letters from that point of view, the justification. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I don't want to repeat now the chronology of events and circumstances that you know about. First, I want to point out that in connection with these events, the Attorney General of Ukraine personally went to Uzhgrad and was there for a few days. Thereafter, two criminal cases were committed at the direction of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The first case relates to the fact that the employees of the U.S.S.S.S. of the Zakartat region have exceeded their official authority in the execution of the Rizak court order on the grounds of the crime in section 2 of article 3.6. 5 The Criminal Code of Ukraine The second case was violated by the involvement of Ukrainian national deputies in the activities of law enforcement officials. In view of the importance of both the first and the second cases, a decision has been made to bring these cases before the Office of the Attorney -General of Ukraine. I cannot comment now on the course of the criminal investigation, as you yourself understand, but in view of the particularity of these cases that they have to do with you, personal control of your rights is exercised by the Attorney General of Ukraine. This is about what was done urgently. Secondly, I want to draw your attention to a few moments. First. When Mr. Rizak was detained, you know that a criminal case was committed under article 120, that's leading to suicide. 17.05 This year, another criminal case was committed under article 3.6, part 3. 5 The Codex of Ukraine is an exaggeration of power, and he has been charged with it. Also, on May 18, this year, he was prosecuted for bribes. I want to tell you again that I am not going to go into this case right now, but things are very serious. In addition, I want to make it clear to you that, while he was in custody, there was an expert report indicating that on the day of the review of certain diseases, which are the basis for the release of detainees from custody, the diseases that Rizak suffers do not enter. Next. As far as the conditions are concerned. It's in the SIZO cell. The four-seat camera, there's two people for today. He has a color TV, a necessary diet. Moreover, on May 27, he was examined by a medical committee, according to the medical advice given by these doctors, his health status is satisfactory and he has a pressure of 125 to 70 for today. Let me make it clear that this is a very good pressure. This is about this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u63	Do you have everything to do with this? Then the questions, dear fellows. Sign up for the Attorney General's office, please. Five minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Orobec, faction of our Ukraine. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u64	Dear reporter! At the time of the Orange Revolution, a gang was detained at the Avangarde High Town Stadium. I personally recognized those thugs who beat me personally because of gang members. Mr. Rizak and his assistant Chubirk fired the gang, and she ran and now they're on the run. Please tell me, did the criminal case involving the crackdown by Rizakom of the gang, which has repeatedly been fought by national deputies in the martyrdom election, break elections, including in the Tachiv region? On the conscience of this gang loved by Rizak, dozens of beatings by current ministers, governors. Please tell me: Is there an open criminal case against the baptized father of this gang of Mr. Rizak?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u65	Victor Mikolaiovich, one minute, my fellow dignitaries, please, let's use normative language, then "breathing" there, others, people are watching us. Please, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that there is no criminal case like this today. But just so you know, honourable deputies, that the Attorney General of Ukraine has never been concerned with political views. If there are grounds for any criminal offence, it will be violated and brought to a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u67	Yes, Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u68	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro The attorney general, the prosecutor of Ukraine, well, this situation, which is now, is so common to the bourgeois state. The point is, after the victory of a bourgeois clan, there are divisions in society. It used to be in Mukachevo, which is now in Uzhgrad. Please give me an answer. Why are the law enforcement agencies, both the prosecutor's office and the ministry of internal affairs, which must first protect the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, always side by side with those in power? Why do they fail to exercise their constitutional rights, and why do our workers who are wrong before the system today always speak again and again to the public prosecutor and to the authorities of the internal affairs protect the rich? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. So what I want to say again is that the DA's office has never been involved in politics in my time, it's actually a criminal matter when it comes to your question. Secondly, I can tell you that there have been some 700 criminal cases filed by the prosecutor's office today. And these matters concern both Yushchenko’s supporters and Janukovich’s supporters. We don't care who's breaking the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u70	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u71	Please give the floor to my colleague, MP Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u72	Please, Ivan Vernidubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, indeed, the MPs tell me that we are very happy, that Rizak has a TV, the more colorful. But really, well, what is the reason now, what are the motives to keep it under guard, the diabetes that is injected with insulin? Is there any evidence that he's obstructing the investigation or is he still going to run? That's the first question. And the second. In your opinion, what are the circumstances that do give rise to the beating of national MPs? Or in this situation and still in masks, that's all. Well, unless you can say the investigation's coming, I can't answer it. We need to answer that question to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u74	So this is how I feel that no circumstances and no one is allowed to beat the MPs. This is the first time. It's different. It has no meaning in masks or masks. I can finish the answer. It's different. As to the question of keeping the watch. The custody was determined by the court, if you know. And there are all the circumstances that are indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u75	Vladimir Plutinski, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u76	Plutinski, faction of the People's Party. Mr. Deputy Prosecutor, I don't know your name's fatherhood. I want to say one such question, is it proven to be the governor's fault that he killed the rector? A bet? That's one thing. And the second. You said you couldn't beat the MPs. Tell me, is it possible to beat a lineup or impossible to beat our militia? Except for that, we waited for our country to be. I think you need to conclude that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. I answered the honourable MP’s questions, so I told him about the deputies. But I think it's normal for all people to know that you can't beat anyone at all. I think everyone understands that. That's why I didn't focus on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u78	Valerius Chichkov, faction of Tymoshenko. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u80	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u81	Yulia Timoshenko, Victor Terrence. Dear Deputy Attorney General, I disagree with what you're saying when Rizak tried. These thugs, you're talking about how to get rid of them, yeah. You're trying to view it as a political matter. It's an elemental crime. Because you know, read the Internet, in the "Close Zone" it was everywhere, that after the first round of presidential elections, criminal elements in Uzhgrad were supposed to be doing something like Russian Beslan in Ukraine. I mean, take the hostages, barricade them, turn them all into opposition. And you know very well that honest militiamen then arrested these people. But that was an order from above that they were released. We left one authority behind. These bandits, grenades, and rifles remained under arrest. Because it was all in Internal Affairs. And then without the pressure in the sports suit, Rizak came in very well, and the term "breathing" here is absolutely logical, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to liberate these people. It's a clean crime. Why not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u82	I want to stress the next one again. The thing is, law science, here you are a lot of lawyers, and you know that setting up facts and as long as there's no basis for a criminal case against anyone, we are. We won't. There were reasons, cases were broken, cases investigated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u83	Victor Mikolaiovich, thank you. Please have a seat. Deputy Minister of Interior, Verbenski Mikhailo Georgievicz, is invited to the rostrum. Please provide your information on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The role and place of internal affairs in events involving the criminal responsibility of the former head of the Zakarpathian Ombudsman, Rizak, can be defined solely in the context of the implementation of law. A criminal case involving Rizak was violated by the head of the prosecutor’s department of Uzhgrada. The same official was ordered to detain him. On the basis of Rizak’s stated determination, she was detained and, in view of the deterioration of her health, placed in a temporary holding cell and hospitalized at the Uzhgrad Central Hospital and then at the Zacarpathian Cardiological Center, where his protection was organized by militia personnel. On May 16, this year, the judge of the Uzhgorod City Court ordered a decision regarding the Precautionary Action Rizak. Pursuant to the law, the police are obliged to comply with the decisions of the prosecutor, the investigator, and the court. This is also true of the execution of court decisions. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison defines as pre-prison institutions investigators and, in certain cases, temporary detention insulators. The change in Rizak’s procedural status made it necessary to transfer him to an insulator. However, in view of his health, he continued to be treated at the Zacarpathian Cardiology Center. In accordance with the decision of the Chief of Investigations of the Prosecutor's Office from 17 to 20 May, a commission forensic examination was carried out. According to the expert, Rizak’s health condition allowed his actions to be investigated. It has also been pointed out that under the conditions of an investigative isolation, it is possible to provide first and immediate medical care to doctors and, if necessary, to call on patients with appropriate expertise. And the diseases he's suffering are not listed as diseases that are the basis for his release from custody. Thus, the grounds for keeping Rizak outside the prison system were dropped. And the U.S.M. of Ukraine in the Zakartat region was obliged to take steps to transport it to the appropriate institution. According to the court’s ruling and the order of the head of the U.M.S.S. in Zakarpatsk district, a convoy was formed for the convoy, which, after 19 hours on May 20, arrived at the cardiological center to carry out its duties. The chief of the convoy introduced Rizak and those present in the House of People’s Deputies to the content and requirements of the court’s ruling and to the conclusions of the expert opinion. The noted national MPs stated that they would not allow the execution of the court’s decision even by physical opposition. The reality of such intentions was confirmed by the fact that before the convoy arrived, the national deputy Proskuratova attached her handcuffed handcuffs to Rizak’s hand and officially declared starvation. There was no involvement in the convoy at the time. Considering that a court decision could not be carried out under existing conditions, police officers left the cardiological center. In the future, the situation around these events began to get worse. At the heart of the heart, suspected young people began to gather, and five tents in Rizak’s support were broken before the administration. In view of this, the head of the U.M.S.O. was ordered to increase the convoy by the staff of the Special Branch of Sokol and the decision to use the metal cutting tool to disengage the handcuffs. About 23 hours, 40 minutes later, police returned to Rizak’s Cardiological Center. Upon seeing them, national deputies took action to block Rizak’s access. In particular, the national deputy Shufresz was in the last, Vojs hindered the movement of the workers, and Proshkoratov’s hand remained attached to Rizak’s hand. Police officers took steps to remove the blockade, disassembled the handcuffs, and transported Rizak to the service vehicle, where he was delivered to the unit of temporary detention of the Uzgorod City Internal Affairs Department. The individual actions of police officers aimed at removing obstacles to the movement of Rizak into the detention facility, which is considered a violation of parliamentary integrity, have become possible only in view of the unusualness and dynamics of the events that have taken place. When the convoy was under way, the police were armed with sign-plated weapons and had handcuffs, and they had no other special equipment. About three o’clock on the night of May 21st to the Uzhgorod City Department by telephone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u85	Yes, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u86	That this hospital was approached by the proscuratov and Shufrich national deputies who claimed that on the 20th of about 23.45 unknown at the cardiological center they suffered bodily harm. An investigative task force was sent to the scene, but the people's deputies refused to make statements and any explanation. A service investigation is currently under way to investigate police personnel in the situation at hand, during which they are removed from duty. Also, as you have heard, there have been two criminal cases that will answer all the questions raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u87	Thank you. Questions, dear colleagues, to the deputy minister, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u89	Eugene Gorenik, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u90	Your Honor, I'd like to give you an explanation. Against the MPs a year ago in the same Zakarpatta in Mukacheva, against the deputies of "Our Ukraine" was used by force. There were no apologies from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now the minister apologizes to a well-known parliamentary bully, Schuffritch, and there's no telling why, because no diagnosis has been made by Schuffritch. Why does the Ministry of Internal Affairs do this? Apologize for what? Does the MP's mandate for the Esdeans mean that they may not comply with the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. The law must be observed by all citizens of Ukraine. And we are deeply convinced of this, and we will do our utmost to make sure that these laws endure. And the question that the minister apologized to the national deputy Shufrich refers to the minister himself. He acknowledged the situation in such a way that she was ambiguous, and he apologized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u92	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u93	Thank you. I have a question of this nature. Well, I don't think anyone would object to the fact that we have a criminal business. No one can become rich if something has not broken some laws, both on the one hand and on the other. But why were you arresting only the representatives of those political forces who openly opposed Yashchenk in opposition, so - called? Although I never consider them opposition, they support them because they're from the same company, they're from the same street, they're from the same money. But it actually turns out that you're 72 hours away, and then you're only closing one and one. Well, I'm asking you to just, uh, do it, well, lock up someone from that company that's in power right now, and this is all going to go away. No one will fight, no one will nail himself. Understand that this political tension in the state will be lifted! Well, there's a reason they'll be locked up too! You're all very understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. If we're going to go into the emergence of rich and poor, it's important to note that, as it were, organized crime in the state occurred in the early 1990s, and it came about only because some people had power, and they didn't own property, and others had ownership and they didn't have power. So they unitedly created organized crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u95	Please, Komar, the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u96	Now, with regard to the persecution of only one. I'll tell you, if this is about Rizak, we didn't arrest him. It's the prosecution's business, they gave it to me. They broke the case. But I have to tell you that in the introduction of both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there are also cases concerning those heads of the Reichs, which have already been appointed by the new authorities. If necessary, such information will be provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u97	Thank you. The mosquito, the faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u98	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there's a request for you to include a broadcast into the area, because people are standing there and they're worried, they want to hear what's going on in the hall. If this could be done, it would be a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u99	If the Supreme Council doesn't have any objections, let's say we don't have a problem with that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u100	Okay. And secondly, it's a question to the deputy minister. Clearly, those who followed orders in masks and beat MPs would be punished according to the Criminal Code. Who gave the order to beat the MPs? Are these people currently in office, or have they been punished and, in general, will this continue the beating of deputies in the country of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u101	Thank you for asking. Neither the beating of MPs nor the beating of any citizen in Ukraine is unacceptable. And we're going to do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen again. With regard to those who participated in the move of Rizak from the cardiac center to the institution where he was to be arrested, they were all removed from service. Service investigations are completed, criminal investigations are under way, and decisions will be made regarding them. There was no indication of any action by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u102	Mikhail Grigorovich, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, head of the Temporary Special Commission, is invited to the presentation. Victor Lavrentiovich, please, five minutes. Let's not take a break, we have to look at these two questions and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies! Members of the Temporary Special Commission, I, also Mikhailo Dobkin and Mikola Chechel, arrived in Uzhgrad on May 3 in connection with these events that you have just heard about. I'll talk to you specifically about what we found there, what circumstances we clarified on the spot. We met all the people we needed to meet and were able to meet. And here's what I want to tell you. First. Regardless of which faction, whose political power, the national MP was beaten, and what we have objective reasons to say that power has been applied to the deputies, which is excessive, and there are conclusions that are appropriate medical, such as Shufresz and Proskuratov. I'm just talking about not saying that someone is something. We have documents on our hands, and we can say that. Now, about the militia. Police officers say they did it first, the court's decision to take a precautionary action to keep Rizak in custody. Second, they had the appropriate medical expertise to do so because the health condition allowed them to do so. First, I want to say, you know, when Rizak was court-martialed on May 16th, Rizak, when his condition deteriorated and he was taken to the cardiocenter. There, near him were guards armed, near his room where he was. What am I talking about? That, in fact, he had already been taken into custody after the court’s decision had been rendered. So when it came to the fact that the police wanted him transferred to SIZO, she just wanted to change his place under the watch. So what I'm saying is, when we talked about this, I asked him and the head of internal affairs: actually, you could translate it in the morning, let's say. Why did you do it in the north? They have a court decision, they have to execute it. And secondly, the decision, the act of forensic expertise, the act of forensic medical expertise said that by coming out of Rizak's state of health at the time of his examination by the commission and right in the mattresses, it was 20.05, 10:30 in the morning that the following actions could be carried out with him. So, the moment they took it out. 10:30, and it all happened at 11:42. I looked at the operating picture, there in seconds, literally, I noticed all the things, I knew the meaning of everything that was going on. And at this point, in the afternoon, in a few minutes, Rizak's pressure was measured: 180 over 90. It's clear that two shots were done to him right away, and that's what was going on. That's what I'm talking about. You know, I'm not going to be quoting you right now from the Police Act, where it's about humane things, and it's about giving help to the needy and the detained, and so on. This needs to be done clearly. Off the record, a person can be brought in, perhaps not by a person, but by a decision. I want to talk about something else. You know, the very moment that this was all happening, when I was watching an operational shot, and I was watching three different videos, well, clearly, the force was being applied. As for Nestor Schuffritch, I can't even tell you what was going on there, because his legs were the only thing that made him soft. And then I could only bring his testimony to you, and they're all known. That is to say, with regard to national MPs, such as the violation of their right to remain untouched. Here's another moment. The police were acting in masks, they were already talking about it. You know, I've been looking for different normative acts where it's allowed. Well, the law of the 5th article, the Police Act says that when citizens are approached or citizens are entitled, they have to be required to be certified, not in masks. So here they are. Wojsz over there. Imagine the situation, Wojsz yelling, standing there with a lump pressed against the wall, shouting, "Who are you, introduce yourself." Imagine him standing in front of him in a mask and showing him his identification. The point is that we have been applied by so many national deputies during this time of various appeals to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u104	I'm just asking you not to scream, please. One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u105	Various means were used, regardless of what the Constitutional Court’s decision is, explaining what “deputy integrity ” is. And it must be understood that people understand that the integrity of the MP, for the MP who really is a deputy, is acting in the interests of the people, the state, not in order to protect himself in some situation of personal interest, but in order to protect himself from power, when he has honor, conscience, he already has, I don't know, the courage to say things that the authorities don't like. Because you know, you've been getting many. And only because of the intactness of many have they preserved both health and life itself. Well, we have Timoshenko here often, you only know her history. I want to tell you some things. A recent story. The President has always disgraced the Supreme Council and searched for the outpost. The Supreme Council in many things when all power was to blame or, perhaps, to a large extent, the President himself and the executive power. Just remember, Timoshenko, Turkinov, School, Pavlenko, Pavlovsky, Cloud, Teeth, Wolinec, Semenyuk, who was beaten, you know, during the celebration of Shevchenka’s Jubilee, which lay long in the hospital. The terrain was beaten, the workman was beaten. The school had already been a national deputy, and it was still ten days in S.I.A., and it had not been released as a national deputy. The power has changed. Dear colleagues, it has changed, but what has changed? In masks, people are still running. Then they beat those who are now in power. Now the same ones beat others, those who were in power. That's what I'm trying to say. The moral condition of the police. I understand they're always extreme, we all understand. How do they view authority? They get instructions like this. And then they talk to them, let's act like it. This will not be the end unless, of course, steps are taken to change the system of government. I'll talk about it later in the general report. And now I want to say, we need to, now the commission has made a decision, and it is asking you to listen to the report, report or report, Nina Ivanovna will, as she calls it, report annually, necessarily about the state of human rights, the citizen in Ukraine, and listen to the Prosecutor's Act, the Attorney General's report every year. And then listen to the state of protection of human rights and freedoms as a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u106	Victor Lavrentiovich, who will speak with a separate mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, with a separate view, we have three national deputies, members of the commission have declared, even four. So it's Yuri Carmazin, it's Ratuszny and Taran. Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u108	Who will act alone? For one thing, one person can speak only.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, from the commission we did not determine who will speak from the commission, because he has a separate opinion, he has a right. I don't know which one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please don't shout. Let's do this: Honorable colleagues, determine who will speak with a separate mind as long as he speaks out of human rights. Please identify yourself. We always had one person with a separate mind. Please, Nina Carpachov. Please go to the rostrum. Calm down, please. Please don't scream! Dear colleagues, I've read the rules I agreed to with you. I'll read it again. Well, let's do some work. One minute, I'm for those who scream. Here is a document that I have prepared, and I have told you: Wojsz - 10 minutes, Proskoratova - five minutes without question, information from the Attorney General’s Office, Ministry of Internal Affairs - five minutes on the report, five minutes on the question, and others without question. You agreed to it. Why are you yelling now? Please come in. Dear colleagues, enough, have already voted. We've got the procedure! What's wrong? The procedure was agreed. Please come in. Because we agreed. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u111	Now the time is up, it will be five minutes, and I will probably start the performance then. I've got five minutes, right, for the show? Thank you. I think we're gonna keep track of time. Thank you. Dear Head, the distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present in this Hall, the distinguished compatriots! On a large scale, I'm very sorry that you and I have lived together for the past few years. I think we have a system of applying our power to the Ukrainian National Deputies. For both old authorities and, unfortunately, little changes are made for new power. Why do I pay attention? Because if power is applied to the people’s defenses, how can a simple person defend his rights? It's totally flawless. And it's like an authorized human rights officer that worries me the most. You know, I was directly involved in the mayor's election in Mukachevo, I was monitoring as authorized by human rights, I know how many brutal violations there were, but when the beatings of the national deputies of Yuri Orobac began, only in this region. [[I'm just gonna stop at that, Victor Musiaka called the other beatings of the national MPs.]] Crime's broken, I'm in control of it. On the charge. Michael, he's currently being drawn to part one of article 122, and also to part two to three of article 296, and also to article three to part three of the third Ukrainian Criminal Code for threats or violence against a statesman. The case is being investigated by the Zacarpathian District Attorney’s Office, it is already completed by conduct, and on May 27, this year it was referred to the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal. But while the case was under investigation for so long, the three criminals who participated in the beating of the slave’s national deputy disappeared peacefully. That's the first one. Secondly, in addition to Yuri the Robber at Zakartat at the same time, a national MP, a woman, by the way, Maria Marcus, who was present in this room, was beaten. What's done? What's done is what's going to happen today. I take advantage of the opportunity that the distinguished Victor Mikolaiovich Shockin is present in this room, I just want to address you: the figure of the case is famous, but I want to say that unfortunately, the District Attorney's Office handed the case over to the law enforcement officers who were about to control these processes in the polling stations. So there was Baloga, and so, we know by election, there was a force -- the beating of the Polish deputy of the people, as well as an adviser authorized by human rights, who, along with Polishchuk, defended constitutional rights in the elections of Mayor Mukachev. This is for starters. And second of all, now we have a sequel. But nothing changes. I want to say it now. Ivan, I ask you very much: Come on, let me tell you! I'll draw conclusions for you later on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u112	Please! Nina Ivanovna, come on, you've spoken for half the time! Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u113	Rizak’s investigation is known to be conducted by the same Zacarpathian district attorney. And I'm convinced that a legal evaluation should only be made by a court of law. It's sacred things, that's understandable. But what I'm saying is that when I was approached by the Ukrainian national deputies, I was held, and it's not closed yet. On a large scale, I am not obliged to comment on such conduct today, for it is not yet closed, but at the request of the people’s advocates, as well as during the demands of my speech on the Kolesnik case, I am obliged today and have no right to deny you the matter. I'd like to comment on just a few things. First. My doctor, Oksana Konyevich, confirmed that, in fact, on May 20 after work at the hospital, she cared for the fate of all the patients in the cardiocenter. And she was painfully telling us that at her initiative, as a doctor, she was visiting the sick Rizak's room, she was putting high pressure on him -- that's what was already being said today, I'm not going to repeat myself, Victor Musiak reported on this. And she was the same way that the doctor begged the police to leave him in the hospital when he was so critical. That's the first one. It's different. The instruction -- not yet mentioned -- the instruction, i.e. the Order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, number 60 of 20 January this year, i.e. for the new authority in the law enforcement agencies, this instruction was approved, is determined by this instruction that the conscription of persons is foreseen and that the work of the militia from this convoy should be based on the observance of the Constitution, the General Declaration of Human Rights, the laws on militia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u114	Nina Ivanovna, I ask you: we are discussing today the application of force to national MPs. Let us talk about this. We're not discussing Rizak's problem right now, or we're about to turn into listening to your regular speeches. Please, one minute, and finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u115	I repeat that I am speaking at the request of the People's Deputies! My initiative wasn't here!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u116	Nina Ivanovna, please take a seat and take the lead! Please make a statement on the substance of the question that we are discussing. Please. Calm down, please. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u117	I don't touch a criminal case that's broken about John Rizak. I'm leading you to what I've called, number 60, the order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which, first of all, prohibits -- I quote this for all the deputies and, in general, all the listeners, our compatriots -- from transporting detainees and persons in custody during the night. It's written down specifically. Paragraph 1 of this instruction says "only during the light age." From this point of view, law enforcement officers did more than break the law. They broke even the instructions themselves. It's actually an instruction. This is the first time. And such conscription, further in the militia's instructions, is not the responsibility of the sick. I'm paying attention to the opportunity that's being addressed right now, to the affairs of millions of fellow countrymen, because, in large accounts, no one knows about the fate of these people, but they're being used in the same way at night for convoys, and they're being applied to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u118	Please let me finish. Don't scream, please. Dear colleagues, do you want to discuss today all the questions that stand? Do you want to or don't you? So let's listen to what order or turn it into a rally. So let's convert. Calm down! I know your position, calm down! All of it. Please, two minutes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u119	Vladimir Mikhailovich, in principle, I am ready to answer questions. Let's probably do this because it's kind of hard to do this. Every minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u120	We didn't have any questions for you. Please give me two minutes and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u121	Okay. If you ask me how I appreciate the actions of the nationalists. I appreciate that under such circumstances, the national electorate has chosen the only way to protect the sick person’s rights and to protect this person’s rights to life in critical circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u122	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u123	And I want to say that, unfortunately, the law enforcement officers broke both the legislation and their own instructions, and even human ethics, when they did what was already being discussed in this room today. I think that the new power that has come to this day should require law enforcement to act differently, because I absolutely support the position that the authorities have changed, but as the law enforcement officials have done for the old authorities, so they continue to do today, unfortunately, to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We've determined the procedure. Out of procedure, what's wrong? Please turn on the microphone. We've defined the procedure. One moment, please wait. Cowchenko, microphone, please. Calm down, please, what are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u125	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I do not understand that you have deliberately gone to the two critical issues that are being raised today, mixed up and thus addressed the main issue. They beat up the people's deputies. What Moses said was true is that they would be beaten and beaten all the time. Today, as a speaker, you must respond adequately. You took it now, asked two questions. First. It's about an accident. And second. Reported to the Interim Investigation Commission. This is why it is today that you have violated the procedure for considering the issue you are talking about. So I ask, we must finish the first question, make a decision on it, there are questions, and move on to the second. And Karpachov was, in my opinion, supposed to speak on the second issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell Nicholas Kravchenk to listen more carefully to what he announces. No, you're not listening, you're listening. I announced that the first question was under consideration. And the first question is that the first question is also provided by the head of the commission of inquiry. Before that, I said, "Dear people's deputies, stick to the rules, because we're going to have to look at the second question." So I would ask you not to misinformation the national MPs, but to listen carefully to how the meeting is going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u127	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u128	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u129	Can I talk to you already?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u130	Yes, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u131	So the honourable MPs, first of all, I'm saying this is not because I think MPs or any citizen should be beaten. I've just been beaten by the police, and I don't think beating the police has anyone's right. But I think that the Supreme Council commission and the head report have turned, and we've set up a commission to protect citizens' rights and freedoms. In order to protect Rizak’s rights and freedoms, others, not ordinary citizens, whose rights have been violated are quite serious. And now I'll tell you about it. I will read what has already been read in the Supreme Council. On December 28, 2003, about 19th, we need to know the transcript, a group of people started with UDA Rizak's head, a prosecutor by former Lemec, accompanied by the head of the Navy in Zakarpatsky area, knocked out the door. Alexander Kartashova, a deputy of the head, was detained and taken to the hospital. Rizak did this. Scissored by a knife during the election of our former colleague Bondar, beaten by a slave MP, beaten by a former or a deputy, a deputy of Jovetka. I'm speaking with a separate opinion that the MPs didn't show these publications in the so-called pravozhist newspaper. As morally terrorized former rector Slivka, who appears to be from the report, as if he were alive and led to suicide. I would like the head of the Commission to report separately, a report by the Commission on the situation of the beating of members of the people, quoting the Constitution, 120 of which states that judicial decisions are approved by the courts of Ukraine, the name of Ukraine, and are required to be implemented throughout Ukraine, both for militias and for national deputies. I want the report to be on the committee, quoted in the Criminal Code, where article 382 says that failure to execute a judicial decision by the militia is a criminal responsibility. Sadly, though, the so - called report did not contain this objective information, as was not the case with the committee. I realize that there's a lot of confusion, and I realize that it's wrong for my colleague and MP twice, and for a teacher to get involved in a man's game, to put it in this situation. But I say again, I now want to read here the quote that said, and I call the names of those deputies, and I told the committee that we won't let the court order be executed, we'll make Rizak a political prisoner-2, and we'll set up a small playground in Uzhgrad. Majdana didn't work out, and now these deputies of ours are going to try to do a destructive job of transferring the solid, solid work of the commission to the work of the fire team, which is going to save their floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I wanted to. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that we are now considering the first issue of the incident between the Ukrainian National Deputies and the law enforcement officials, which took place on May 21, 2005, in the city of Uzhgrad, which resulted in the use of force to the National Deputies. Once we've finished and decided on the solution, let's move on to the second question. In view of the fact that the performances have been completed, we are now moving on to the factions of the factions on this subject as we agreed. Please, Sergey Gmira. Put the names of the national MPs on the board for the factions. Sergey Gmira, get ready for John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u133	Thank you. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, during the Presidential campaign, Viktor Yushchenko publicly, vividly and clearly formulated his programme of political arrangements for Ukraine: to change staff in the brothel. The programme is implemented, the teams have changed, and the brothel remains a brothel that executes the orders of the criminal oligarchic clans. And where crime and where the oligarchs are, it is inevitable that power and property will not only be beaten but also killed. You know, I look at what's going on, and I feel like nothing's changed. I'm looking at these footage, when it comes to the cops, whether the masked bandits beat the MPs. And I am reminded of 2002 when I joined with the old opposition in the so-called capture of part of the Presidential Administration. There were half a million people there, half-bands in the same masks. I watch MPs beat up in the city of this opposition, right, and I recall that a year ago, when they were beaten exactly the same way, in the division of power and property of representatives of the previous opposition. Stop shot coming up. The Minister of the Interior says "provoked the police". You know, we're in this kind of society where the police are always going to provoke, and she's going to be stupid about following orders from the authorities. There's a man walking down the street, robbed. He's a provoker because he wasn't just walking around, he was pushing his wife home to pay her wages and put her neighbor into temptation. This is the kind of country we've created. And that's what I'm trying to say. The Communist faction is the only faction whose position is clear and consistent. We fought against lawlessness a year ago in Uzhgrad, Zakarpatje, Mukachevo, when the old opposition was beaten. We oppose lawlessness now that the new opposition, the bourgeois opposition, is being beaten. Our position is clear and consistent. But here's what I want to say. Of course, those who order and those who do so must be punished in the strictest way. But this will not change the situation in that country as long as the current regime exists. He hasn't changed in years. I'm not going to say that brothels have to be converted into temples, that's too loud. And you have to make a brothel a regular house where you can live comfortably. And that's what the Communist faction is all about. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u134	Ivan Sidorovich Boki of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Victor Terrence will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, anyone who understands that we are dealing with political provocation, knows who is who in the urban incident. As Saul Kramarov's hero said, "I am not a prosecutor to speak to you in person." And so I can tell those who pretend to be injured: you don't want to be the figures for the Mermaid, the dividends from this story about what your regime gave to the people for certificates, or zero. There's politics here, of course, but what this policy smells like, we all understand. No Ukrainian law, no European, international legal act gives the MP any rank to interfere with the execution of a decision from a court of law. This and that is all we have to do, appreciating the urban provocation, realizing that in this way the past regime protects itself from the law and diverts the attention of the people from the essence of what is happening. Defending the attack, defending the provocations, defending the lie is the method that the oligarchy opposition has chosen in today's conditions, using, let's speak the truth, and the weakness, and the mistakes of the new power. I think we understand that we're dealing with provocation, and that seems to be clear to everyone, and we shouldn't speculate on the words of the genius Linus Costenko. But that we are dealing with the foolishness of those who carried out the judicial approval is more than clear. Only those who do not think about the consequences, and just as provokers, do not respect the law. We must certainly protect the people’s deputies and protect them so that no one else will itch. Those who did wrong acted, forgive, on the brink of foolishness with the same masks. They have to leave both the police and the D.A.'s office. I just don't need a statement about how some of the skins in the hall, the shoulders, is that Minister Lucenko beat up Schufrich and Proskuratov, that it was Henprocuror who took revenge on someone. In the provocation of defeat, there are specific culprits and specific supervisors, and here they have to get the credit. And the Henprocuror and the minister must ensure that the lesson from the Uzgorod incident is adopted by all police personnel, all law enforcement officers, and that the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy is implemented unconditionally, unconditionally and without exception. And cut it on the nose that there will be no distance from this forgiveness. At the same time, we need to draw conclusions and here, in this session room, we need to ensure that this does not happen again. And first of all, I think we need to get to the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Code, because the Criminal Code, which was adopted without this KPC, is said to be "a hall without bread." And in general, let's face it, we continue to live in the timelessness of the innkeepers, and yesterday's creators of this lawlessness are now victims.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u136	Victor Terrence of the Julia Timoshenko block. Prepare Ivancho from Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u137	Victor Terrence, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, friends, citizens of Ukraine! Remember, in October 2003, the Democratic Forces Forum was being prepared in Donetsk. On October 30, the National Deputies Pavlovenko, Czervonenko, and later Philenko and Kachur arrived for an organizational purpose at the Palace of Youths, where the forum was to take place. They were brutally beaten, and Pauline’s MP unlawfully deprived him of his will and kept him in the palace for five hours. On November 4th and 5th, here in the Supreme Council, the deputies of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine blocked the parliamentary rostrum and we talked about a brutal violation of parliamentary immunity. [[That's what they were talking about!]] And then, with a statement from SDPU(o) Schufrich, who said, quote on the transcript about the beating of MPs, quote, "The provocative behavior of our Ukrainian MPs who, using the MP's intrusiveness, defiantly ignored the rule of law, got a strong reprisal in Donetsk." Period. Schuffritch urged, quote, "To attract all lawbreakers, whether they have a parliamentary mandate or not." Quoting the stenogram hall, regarding the blocking of the parliamentary rostrum, Schufrich said: "The SDPU(o) calls on the opposition representatives to block the session's work, to listen to the voice of reason, to remember their responsibility to the electorate, to give up this destructive position. And then Tamara Proscuratov, who was very excited, said at the point of tears when we were beaten, she said, "I, as a woman, as a mother, as a teacher, am extremely sad and ashamed for us, for all the deputies, that at the time when we have to accept the budget, we are solving various political intrigues here. And that's why I'm proposing to pause all of this right now, and I'm going to start talking about the bills." I would like to remind you that last June the faction of SDPU(o) voted in its entirety against the inclusion in the agenda of the agenda of the interim commission of inquiry. People are good! Tamara Proscuratova turned here to God and urged us to look and think about what we were doing, but God is returning each of us to our sins. And here Schuffrich, Proscuratova and their associates should repent for what they said when they beat us, and for the parliamentary integrity, and the blocking of the rostrum. And while they are not, I have no reason to trust a report based on their statements. I can take here the word of the Lion Lucienka, who is faithful to himself, Boris Oliynik, I can take the word of many of you, for whom the notion of honor and morality does not differ with human rights. That is why I cannot trust this report, based on the political conjunctors who today say one thing and tomorrow quite another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u138	John Ivancho is invited to speak from the faction of "Our Ukraine". Next is Michael Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u139	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, present! It's extremely sad to be standing on this stand of the Supreme Council, where we're looking at events that have happened again and again in Zakarpat, in this case in Uzhgrad, because this High Council has already analyzed, initially studied, and evaluated the situations that took place in Zakarpata in the elections of the city of Mukachev, now -- about the beating of the people's deputies in Uzhgrad. And this list could be supplemented by some other specific facts that were not discussed in this room. The actions that are being carried out with regard to national MPs are certainly condemned. It's condemned by everyone: it's condemned by the public, it's condemned by the media -- and it's the right thing to do. With regard to national MPs, violence, humiliation, and so forth cannot be used. Unfortunately, it is still being implemented in our country. And we are witnessing the recent beating of the national MPs when the police prevented us from attending their legal sessions, including me, when they removed me from the line of my MP activity that I was supposed to do. [[It's already been said in this room and today.]] And that was a fact. Sadly, though, in many cases the figures of these matters are the same. Unfortunately, the same national deputies. Please tell me, does a national MP have the right to prohibit law enforcement authorities from exercising their legal rights? To execute a court decision? No! No! None of us have a right. We can press charges. We can do other things that are available to us in ways and methods, but we can do a pear campaign, do it all in order to distract us from the other issues that are now in the order of the day in law enforcement, and many of them. It's direct extortion, it's direct combat, it's abuse, including financial abuse. These are other questions related to the election, their falsification, and so forth. Therefore, national MPs do not have the right to defend these interests. As for Mr. Rizak, his illness. So let's remember from the beginning. Mr. Rizak is not ill today. Mr. Rizak is his chronic illness, unfortunately. We feel sorry for him. But by doing so, he hides himself from the responsibility that he must bear. And it's on his conscience. And God sees from heaven and gives due credit for all that he has done during these years with others. Like him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u140	Yes, Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Next is Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u141	Reverend Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian citizens who listen to the broadcast! Today, the Supreme Council is discussing a topic that, without exaggeration, may prove to be a test for young Ukrainian democracy, a test for the political and civil maturity of our major state and legal institutions. Because the beating of the national MPs, even on condition, I want to stress this, that the execution of the court's decision to take a precaution is a disgrace and nothing can justify it. A phenomenon, by the way, that should have gone back since our last vote -- the election of the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We are all convinced that the modern legal order in Ukraine, its constitutional foundations should rule out the cause as a way of putting into effect the electoral slogans, and more so as a way of political life, in principle. This had a place in the past and, unfortunately, this is happening today. I hope that this topic will be given attention and the head of state in his annual letter to the Ukrainian people, which we all expect. That is why all of us should step aside from trying to give people only spectacles and bread, although the 2006 elections are quite powerful in trying to do just that, and it is necessary to move on to a day-to-day piece of work that we believe is based on the faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs: First. Respect for man and citizen, regardless of their political beliefs, the persistence of property relations and the rule of law, the dialogue of power, business and all other social institutions, as a way of social and public life. And the last. Political tolerance and mutual forgiveness. That's what we don't seem to be doing today. Turning to events in Uzhgrad, I can't help but touch on another topic — the subject of the open faces of law enforcement officials. Obviously, the time has come at the legislative level to ban the use of special forces of the IMF and other forces of masks, except in cases of destruction or detention of armed gangs. Such a bill by the People's Deputies, members of the "Industry, Entrepreneurs" faction will be prepared and will soon be registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Obviously there is a need for amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Criminal Code in order to increase the responsibility of officials to prevent the exercise by the people's deputies of their powers and any physical opposition to it. The events in Uzhgorod reiterate the need to strengthen parliamentary control, one of which is one of the important instruments of which is the parliamentary commission of inquiry. I hope that this bill, submitted by the people's deputies: Karmazin, Oneichuk and Bandurku, will be voted on and supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u142	Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk is invited to the presentation. The right to speak is passed on except the faction, well, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine, the region of Ukraine, the Democratic Initiatives and the Democratic Ukraine, which is 12 minutes. [[united]] And one faction called off, so 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u143	Dear national deputies, Mr. Head, starting in 94 years in this room, we have been constantly listening to such distressing problems as the beating of national MPs, the violation of human rights and freedoms, the violation of the Constitution and the laws. And that's not an accident, because part of the Chamber of Deputies supports the order that was before this and I don't support it, and now part of the deputies support the order that is being set up in Ukraine today. I want to say that President Kuchma's government has not endured the democratic test, and Victor Yushchenko's government cannot withstand the democratic test. This is a real fact. Because the authorities are changing, as the MPs rightly said, and things are the same. I have not yet had to defend the democracy proclaimed worldwide against the new democratic power. Wouldn't it be a democratic state, and its leaders are democratic if people in the country are persecuted for their views, thrown away in prison, beaten by political opponents, not ceremonially with national MPs, fired thousands of workers just for working with Kuchma? As military withdrawals from the fronts of the Great Homeland War from television screens are called the names of people who are invited to the meeting by investigators, set up lines for interrogations, and the society is creating a climate of political psychosis. Nor does the new authorities notice this; rather, they do not want to notice. Such actions have every reason to call it, to qualify as political repression. There is peace and harmony at stake in society, one of the greatest achievements of Ukraine. Taking power, today’s leaders, who have gone to elections under the slogans of solidarity and social cohesion and have accused their opponents of dissipation, are now doing just that by deepening social divisions, creating new points of tension. The necessary, necessary fight against corruption and crime is turned into a political crime show, an image show. In all of this, corruption and bribery flourish with new power and on all levels. In politics, the focus is not on social harmony, but on the search for enemies, there is literally the harassment of the SPDU(o) and the Party of the Regions, and the principle of "whoever is not with us, who is against us" is a well-known principle. The person who voted for Yanukovich is already considered a moral criminal. In the President's speeches, the words "enemy," "thief," "thief." No trial. It is said that wisdom is to make a friend of the enemy and not to make a friend of the enemy of wisdom. The new power actually crosses everything that was before it, denies the very possibility that any positive will exist to the so-called orange revolution. Sadly, however, the state gradually becomes an instrument of political seduction and drifts into a regime where all will be decided by one person or group of persons united by the interests of the family business clan. The president of Ukraine and his team have been unable to endure a test of the ability to organize effective governance. And society is anxiously waiting, expecting everything, believing everything, maybe something will happen for the better. What do we have today? Instead of the increase in production, the gross national product of the decline in its rate, there are signs of an economic crisis that has been so difficult to come up with. Instead of effective power, where the only team of professionals works, there's a lack of a well-designed country development strategy, public show conflicts on the government's Olympics, which cause a lot of reflection, sow boredom and hopelessness. The president, on the other hand, even sees and does not want to hear the immoral acts of the members of the team, creating an atmosphere of permissiveness. There are certain consequences. Instead of upholding the Constitution and the laws, they are being violated by the principle of revolutionary purpose. Legal nihilism becomes decisive in the work of officials. Instead of a social dialogue of power with opposition, we have political persecution of opposition, intimidation of its leaders, humiliation of the dignity and dignity of those who do not deserve it. I would like to remind the distinguished representatives of the new government that revolutions are known to devour not only their enemies but also their children. It's worth thinking about, because it's an experience of the history of all revolutions. You can explain the hatred of the SPDU(s) or the Party of the Regions on the part of the President and others, maybe there's a reason. But one cannot understand why the head of state cannot overcome it in his own environment. Isn't that what our opponents are saying today? Please tell me if there is a democratic government in which a person is filled with hatred for his opponents. I answer, no. Instead of developing democracy in the government of the state, there's a tendency towards one-many power. There is every reason to talk about the desire to reject political reform. If such trends in Kuchma began to develop actively during the second term of office, Viktor Andriyovich had been in office for the first months. What, then, awaits Ukraine? Where is the democracy proclaimed on Maidan? And what happened on the night of May 20 to 21, when John Rizak was taken out of the hospital by force, when the national MPs were beaten, vividly demonstrates the methods by which the new authorities fight crime, do not struggle in this fight against all, including the national MPs, who have nothing to do with it. True, it is not possible to hide from the law by political power, but it is certain that it is not lawful to cover up legal proceedings against political opponents. Justice works on a selective basis: some are released at the highest level and others are arrested on highly questionable grounds. Instead of Law One for All, the rule of "Friends All, Enemies -- a little bit of highly recommended law." In such a situation, the law does not become an instrument of justice but rather a political instrument of dealing with those who disagree. At the same time, the political motivation is 18,000. There's no denying the resignation. On the contrary, it is said that this is just the beginning, because there are only 200,000 officials. Ask yourself, ‘ Why do matters go bad in the department or in the region? Reporters report that not all officials of the old authorities have been cleared. But there is a law on officials that requires motivated action of authority. Who's paying attention to that? Nobody. Because there is a desire to cleanse everyone and bring others to power. I do not deny that these others can rule. There's no such thing. According to the Constitution, after the presidential election, the new head of state appoints members of government, district heads, and district administrations, or several hundred officials. Thousands have been released! There has never been anything like this in Ukraine. It's called political cleansing. But one more thing to realize is 18,000. - It's not just statistics. It is followed by the fate of specific people, their families. How can it be justified to release the directors of institutions and universities, school directors, and schools, and sometimes the chief medical doctors? News recently came that in a school in the village of Volin, the police took the teacher directly in class, in front of the students, because the teacher was on the side of Janukovich when the presidential election was held. In the Zacarpathian region, she recently took her own life in the great village of Olena Yakoubinska, a village head. She could not stand the psychological pressure of the new authorities simply because most of her opponents had won the polls. Take this, isn't it a vivid example of a political fuss around the Dynamo Football Club involving high-ranking officials, the courts? And what is the reason? The owners of the club are not the same. Are there no other problems in power today? Isn't the successful club of the Kyiv Dynamo? Who's paying attention? Is the club not a visiting map of Ukraine in the world, or is it no longer in Europe, to which we can go far and far? Please don't take these words as emotions, criticizing the mistakes of today's authorities alone. It's said that 100 days is not enough to draw conclusions. I'm good. But why were these days enough to make so many mistakes, so much nonsense? Why is there no single point of view on the important issue? In this room, this part of the national MPs convinced me that I was convinced not to vote for the ratification of the EP. I knew without them I couldn't. I knew that when they said the EP was a betrayal in Maidan, I knew it. I didn't vote. But when the President and the Prime Minister say today that this is the strategic line of Ukraine, I mean, dear friends, learn to crawl away from the subject at least diplomatically! You can't do that either! So Kuchma, who made a proposal for the EP, is a traitor, and if another name is already a national hero. I have been and remain a supporter of Ukraine's independence. During my presidency, I did not sign any documents that would put Ukraine in danger. It's happening today. Dear friends, if I were to know in 1991 what it would be like to have national MPs disrespect each other, that the presidents would think only of their own: where to sit and what office to decorate and what palace to go to -- that instead of democracy there would be a home invasion, I wouldn't sign the Billowic Agreement, I'd rather cut it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u144	Let me finish. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u145	That, by the way, was President Yushchenko standing here saying, "I'm willing to give my hand to every faction manager, every deputy." Where's that hand, Victor Andryovich? Where did she go? Or maybe you forgot to say one phrase, add, "I will give my hand to someone who will serve me and, even better, serve me." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u146	Bogdan Hubsky, please, from the "Only Ukraine" faction. Bogdan Hubsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to express my sincere regret that we have to deal with this issue today and be distracted from our main task of working for the benefit of the citizens, passing laws that would improve people's lives. And we have to be distracted by the definition of these political conflicts and scandals. On the other hand, today's debate on this issue gives us the opportunity to say that, indeed, we must democratically discuss in a transparent manner any action that leads to a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the laws of Ukraine. It's precisely today that we determine whether we can achieve a qualitative breakthrough, build a state for a man with a powerful economy, social protection that is truly oriented towards a morally positive psychological climate that would contribute to the intellectual uplifting of the state. And the main thing is to build a democratic state with the rule of law, because that's what's going to happen today, and to bring the face of power back to man, to bring power closer to every citizen -- that should be our alpha and omega today. And that is what the Ukrainians today expect of us, who have advocated their right to be honest. Indeed, today's main issue is socio-economic problems. But with these problems, we should not forget the political aspect. We should not forget the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Today, I would suggest that we reject the political factors, assess the situation, primarily by virtue of the law, because our goal is to build the rule of law. And that's why we, the national MPs, the people who have been elected by law, have to consider this issue from the point of view of the implementation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. The force of action regarding the national deputies is, of course, unacceptable and the status of the national MP, as defined today in the Constitution, as defined today by the laws of Ukraine, must be fulfilled. Of course, the police had reason to arrest them, they carried out a court decision, but the form of such execution was probably, in a mild sense, inadequate. It was gratifying that this was recognized by the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, the minister of internal affairs, and the conduct of the leadership and the minister himself in this difficult conflict, which is precisely what is causing respect and, I think, makes it possible to say that in the future such conflicts will be impossible, and the police should not, I think, become a political hostage in cases of, let's say, political or other conflicts. So, in my view, there should be no conflict in the leadership of the police, but you know, as they say, the authorities have changed, the perpetrators have remained the same, unfortunately. And that's why it's very important today to make sure that the laws and the Constitution are not violated. No one today can violate the law on the status of a national MP. I believe that a proper service investigation should be carried out in this situation. If we are discussing today the issue of conflict with the people's deputies, it should be publicized, in the open mode we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u148	Thank you. We've still got a speech from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak has the floor. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u149	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In a state of hard thinking, I went out to this rostrum. I was the National Deputy of the Soviet Union at the time, I worked in the Sakharov and Yeltsina factions, I was one of the organizers of the Ukrainian People's Movement, and I was a few vocations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I did not do everything right, and I have something to be ashamed of, and I am ashamed of too. But as ashamed as I am today, I have never been. First President of Ukraine to the rostrum. This doesn't work, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, this doesn't come out as the head of the faction of SDPU(o), this is a historical figure. Leonide Makarovich, your name is written on the tablets of history, you're a statesman, you've signed in the White Desert historic verdict, and you should be proud of it, it's probably the only thing worth being proud of in your life. And today you're going to the rostrum, and you're giving up the historical act. For what? How would you do that for some important reason, because Shufric, Rizaka, Proscuratova with tears. Yeah, guys, it's a mess, it's a schnapps! Leonid Makarovich, you're a historical figure. On such an empty occasion, you can't do that if you go out to this rostrum and claim that you renounce Ukraine's independence because of what some have provoked and the other idiots have gone into provocation. It's the right thing for both of us to punish. I don't support today's power, I may be an opponent to today's power, if you will. It needs to be wet, but it's not you, and it's not the way you're doing it right now, giving up your historical act. Leonid Makarovich, you don't have to fall below the level of urban sewerage, you have to have a sense of historical and human dignity, not make a statement that just pisses me off. Parliament is not just a legislative body, it is a political body. There have always been, there will be, and there will be fights, even the Japanese are fighting in Parliament, I don't say Italians anymore. This is the front of the political struggle. And you don't have to make a tragedy out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, please microphone, replica. One minute of replication, Your Honor's colleagues, is entitled, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u151	I really appreciate this performance because it really brings us back to history. I didn't give up my signature, I just said one thing, if these national MPs who are speaking today are demeaning people. Here comes the deputy, says right, but - “Someone there is Shufrich”, “someone there is Proscuratova”, some others. You put the value of a person on your knees. You don't even understand. I'm not talking about democracy anymore. You don't understand what you're saying. You don't understand that. And that's why I say and confirm that if I knew that democracy would bring people who couldn't appreciate themselves or others or Ukraine or its land, I wouldn't sign it, I'm saying it. And what I signed, I did a deed that allows people today, including the unworthy of this high hall, to knit whatever they want out of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u152	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of the matter. Let me draw your attention to this question. Dear colleagues, we're talking about a topic that's very topical, very relevant. But it is obvious that it is not perceived in Ukrainian society. Because people have questions, in average people, in a mere citizen, the logical question is, Who will stand for the common man? Because when MPs can't inconsolidatedly determine their position, what can they do for Ukraine? It is evident that the law is to be in force in Ukraine. The example of the national deputies shows that this is not the case. And that's symptomatic. But at the same time, I want to say, honourable national MPs, it was possible when we shared the Supreme Council, when we were squeezing, talking about the Supreme Council, and we watched no matter what. Some rejoiced, others resented. In principle, we usually manifest ourselves when we are touched by the living, when political interests or personal interests touch us. Another position we have is our house at the edge. And that, I think, should be taken, including to us, by respectable colleagues. We thus encourage our actions to do so not only with the national MP but with other citizens. What do we need for Ukraine’s law to work? First of all, we need to be here in the Supreme Council, objective and unique in assessing what is going on. And give objective grades. Then it'll be okay. The impulses and truths and objectivity should eventually come from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But if you sum it up, you can come to a conclusion. I mean to summarize and discuss this issue that we did not go to a consolidated position in his consideration. But I would like to draw a conclusion from this, taking into account our responsibility for the processes in Ukraine. Now let's move on to the draft decision. You've been given a project by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7554]] You had the opportunity to meet him. So I put to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation in connection with the application by law enforcement authorities of force to Ukrainian national deputies in the city of Uzhgrad (registration number 75540). Please vote. [[13:19:52]] For 227 Decision taken. Let us turn to the second question. May I have your attention, please? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 4; Communist -52; "Regions of Ukraine" - 48; People's Party - 31; Block Timoshenko - 0; SPU - 3; Ukrainian People's Party - 0; SDPU(o) - 20; "Only Ukraine" - 8; "Democratic Ukraine" - 19; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13; "Democratic Initiatives" - 14; non-fractional - 15. The report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen is under review. Such rules of procedure are proposed in order for us to complete our consideration of the matter. Please listen carefully so that there will be no complaints. The TSC head report - up to 20 minutes, answers to questions - up to 5 minutes, inside minister information - up to 5 minutes, answers to questions - up to 3 minutes, information from the Attorney General's Office - up to 5 minutes, answers to questions - up to 3 minutes, a speech by the Supreme Council of Ukraine - up to 5 minutes, for speeches from MPs and factions - up to 3 minutes. No warning? I would like to say, fellow officers, you look at the clock at 15 hours we have to have a parliamentary hearing, and by 15 hours we have to finish our consideration of the matter! What might be the warning?Oh, my God! Please. Sulkowski and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With the previous 20 minutes there, the head, five minutes from the Ministry, from the prosecutor’s office. We agree. The "Ukrainen Region" faction on the previous issue, we've seen that there should be a report from human rights not for five minutes. In fact, she's just starting to tell us something, and we're not giving her the opportunity anymore. So this human rights person, Mrs. Carpathian, needs at least, if she agrees, there's something to say, she would give, say, centrifuge such information from human rights, at least 10 to 15 minutes, if it's theirs. There's something to talk about. Five minutes is nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, we will listen to the Human Rights Commissioner's report, as long as it takes time, we will be determined. We are now considering the report of the Human Rights Commissioner, and we are considering the report of the Temporary Special Commission. Please, the head of the Temporary Special Commission. Please. Dear colleagues, the matter has begun to be considered. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u155	Since the creation of the commission on April 21, 2005, honourable national deputies have received more than 300 petitions from citizens, their claims, complaints about violations of constitutional rights and freedoms. An analysis of these references, their processing, allowed the commission to reach separate conclusions of a general nature. But I'm going to tell you right now that we haven't been able to process all these references and materials thoroughly. So right now, I ask you to support the Commission's proposal to allow us to continue working on these materials so that people who come here really don't get the impression that the Supreme Council is just dealing with the interests of the deputies, not the people. We want to take a thorough look at everything that came to us from the citizens and continues to come. The largest number of references is the Kirovograd region, the Lugansk region, the city of Kiev, the Zakarpatsk region, the city of Yalta and Donetsk. The most frequently raised issues are the failure of the Public Prosecutor’s Office to carry out its direct duties to monitor the legality of the activities of the public authorities, the illegal actions of local authorities, especially in the area of land issues. Many such references, by the way, from Yalta and from the ARC at all. With regard to the adoption of illegal decisions by local self-government bodies - local councils and executives, the failure to execute court decisions by the executive service, the illegal extension of criminal cases by the authorities of the investigation, the question of the restoration of the rights of victims of political repression, and the groundless dismissal from work, mainly by threats and pressure from officials of local self-government authorities on officials with a view to putting their people in office. At the very least, statements came about the question of free will. The interim commission of inquiry carried out a study of materials relating to the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the person and the citizen, the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the Board of Auditors, the tax authorities and the executive authorities, and a review of the judicial practice in the field of the implementation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the citizen. As they studied the materials regarding the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Boris Kolesnikov, members of the commission of inquiry in the investigative unit number 13 in the presence of the lawyer of the arrested and the chief of the S.I.A. interrogated Kolesnikov and examined the materials relating to his arrest and arrest. This criminal case was violated with respect to Kolesnik, the deputy attorney general of Ukraine, Shokinim, on March 25, 2005. But on April 5th, an 18-person task force was already set up. Now, I've been clarifying this morning, or 18, say, 19 people in this case. The following day, on April 6, after the establishment of an investigative task force at 12.30 p.m., the senior investigator in the particularly important cases of the chief investigator of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Chewitz Ukraine in the corridor of the Ukraine's Henprocuratorium, after being questioned by the investigator Rudenko Kolesnikov, detained him with three machine-gunned officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, after which a detention protocol was drawn up. And he was in handcuffs against his will directed to conduct fluorography in order, clearly, to keep him under guard. A study of the detention protocol and the court’s rulings showed that there were no grounds for detention under article 106 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, nor were there any grounds for arrest in Ukraine’s detention, nor were there any grounds for suspect detention, any grounds for suspecting the commission of the offences. We've established a number of other violations, and one of the most serious is the violation of the right to protection, the admission of a protector to a defendant. He was not even informed that he had the right to meet a lawyer from the moment of his arrest, not from the time of his indictment. He didn't know that, well, he was in that state. But he was told "from now on" and he agreed. So I don't really want to talk about the case. Let the investigation go. But the commission of inquiry, you've all heard why, here the Minister of Internal Affairs spoke, told how this was happening and who was injured in this case, but the commission of inquiry has been set up, are confirmed, the materials are appropriate, that a number of facts reported by the People's Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs Yuri Lucenk in Kolesnik's case may be questioned. They don't have confirmation. I want to tell you something else. Yesterday, even the day before yesterday, I received a request to meet again at the station from Kolesnikov. I tried to get there -- I couldn't do it. I've been calling the Attorney General many times, but I couldn't arrange for him to give the order to the investigator. Although I have one thing to say to you: according to the law, relatives and other persons are allowed to do so -- they say. Well, I'm asking the investigator, "Do I not fall for another person?" I'm not saying it's an investigator anymore. temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council. Well, I couldn't do that, and today I have a statement from Kalesnick that yesterday the media reported that the case was brought to trial. He says it's not true, he's not allowed to familiarize himself with these materials, and he hasn't seen these materials, he hasn't met them. And on 31.05, I wasn't handed any stuff. He believes that in this case his rights are also violated. When we studied all these circumstances, we came to the conclusion by the commission, most of the commission, that the existence of a number of serious violations of Boris Kalesnikov’s rights, the existence of circumstances that show that there were no grounds, in our view, for serious reasons. a serious tool to apply to him, we believe that it is possible to change the precautionary approach to him. Even a request was made to the investigator to consider replacing, for example, the amount claimed by the victims in the confession of the victims in the case, even if he is still questioning himself, he rejects in general that they were victims. And he's willing to make that pledge. So far, this decision has not been made. It's about this case. We think the investigation will go according to the law, and we call on the investigating authorities to do so. It goes in the context of all the things that are now resonant, so-called, and it's clear that if the commission continues to work, it will have in mind the matter of Kalesnik. The Commission has also established the facts concerning the deliberate misapplication of criminal law and violations of criminal law in criminal matters with regard to the deputy of the Zaporozhye City Council, a member of the Commission on Municipal Property, Privatisation Resources and Land Relations of Eugene Privin. The commission found that a decision on a criminal case involving a member of the council of the city was made by an unauthorized person, the prosecutor’s office. Since, in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, a criminal case involving a member of the local council may be violated by a court or prosecutor. At the stage of the pretrial investigation, the constitutional right of the Primary to protection was violated. It should be borne in mind that, on a large scale, there is a question about the very fact of the crime in which he is now being accused of taking bribes. The interim commission of inquiry also examined the circumstances associated with the application of precautionary measures to Rizak in the form of security. I think that since this case has now been dealt with carefully enough, there is no need to explain these circumstances now. After the report we'll multiply and give you the text of the report itself, I think you'll see our studies there, their results. But in this matter too, we would feel that the other means of protection could be applied. Next. The Commission examined the evidence of violations of the constitutional right of citizens to work. It's a separate working group that we worked in this direction, and the members of the commission were in Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Zakarpatta, in Žitomir. Meetings have been held with citizens whose constitutional rights have been violated. They supported these facts and claimed that they were under pressure, a threat to them by the authorities to leave their posts. Especially should we turn once again to such a loud enough case regarding the dismissal of the director - general, the artistic director of the Russian drama Lesi Krasnika Reznikovich Mikhail. The commission found that between the academic theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine, the deputy director-general of Ryabin and the company Tiara, a lease was entered into by the Ministry of Art Culture, the holding foundation. The point is that Reznikivići is being accused of being wrongly executed and executed there. The Attorney General's Office carried out a review, a rare case where the Attorney General's Office was investigating the state of affairs in the theater and she prescribed: to consider the submission and take urgent steps to remedy the violations found and to resolve the issue of attracting the disciplinary responsibility of officials who allowed the violations. In the text of the application, the Public Prosecutor’s Office concludes that the violations found are largely due to the merger of two positions: the Director - General and the artistic director of the theatre, which includes Rezniković, which makes it difficult to control the activities of the subordinates. Well, you should point out that if the first, where the lease is concerned, there's still a point that he actually had something personal to do with this contract. As for the combination of these two positions: the Director-General and the Director-General of Art, of course, is no longer the district of the Attorney-General’s Office. This would have to be left to the very people who do art, and it should be borne in mind that from Soviet times all of these experiments have been carried out in the separation of these positions, in combination. And it's only now that the last few decades have come to the conclusion that, if these two positions are combined, the creative community works the most effectively, there are fewer problems within the collective and the disputes. It should be borne in mind that Reznikovich was not aware of how the case was handled by the prosecutor’s office and was not discussed with him. And even he learned about all these consequences from the press, from the media, from the Supreme Council. Also from there was Oxana Volodymyrna Bilozer, who said that he was getting fired or out of office. We believe that given the absence of legal grounds for the dismissal of Reznikovich from his position as Minister of Culture and Tourism, Oksana Volodymyrna Bilozer. There the court cases go, he challenged this release, but recently, as we received reports from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism do not appear in court proceedings. The materials that come to the commission also show that the constitutional rights of citizens, such as the inviolability of housing, the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations, telegraph and other correspondence, the right to self-respect and protection from torture and abuse, the right to freedom and personal integrity, the right to protection from the storage, use and dissemination of confidential information, and others, are violated by law enforcement authorities, which are covered by exceptional circumstances or by the misuse of normative acts. In 2003, the courts of Ukraine granted 40,000 permits to listen to citizens in a population of 48 million. In 2004, about 45,000. For comparison in the United States, 290 million people, just one and a half thousand, and in the Federal Republic of Germany, 80 million people, 800,000 people. In 2004, more than a million citizens were taken into custody, more than 50,000 were transferred to internal affairs, and more than 15,000 were allowed to search private and service premises. More than 11 million administrative protocols were made for Ukrainian citizens. In the media, high - ranking officials constantly announce to whom they have compromising materials, whom they suspect, whom they challenge, who should appear, and what state institution, which is a direct violation of article 32 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 40 per cent of appeals to the President of Ukraine are complaints of violations by law enforcement authorities and 49 per cent of appeals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on complaints of compliance with the law. The constitutional norm expressly establishes that it is not possible to collect, store, use and disseminate confidential information about a person without his consent, except in cases defined by law. To resolve the issue of the person’s guilt, the commission of the crime, to evaluate the evidence in terms of their credibility and availability to qualify the person or to resolve other matters, they are only subject to judicial decision. In this regard, reports of challenges, interrogations, suspicions of wrongdoing are a violation of human constitutional rights. Most of the appeals made to the commission have been considered, are claims and complaints made by citizens to the commission as to the last instance. They say they've been through everything. Now to us, they still hope that we can help them. When people are already covered by legislation, opportunities have been taken advantage of. Many appeals are made about the wrong actions of government authorities and local self - government authorities when illegal orders are made by city, village, and other authorities in the area. This is particularly evident from the numerous statements made by the residents of Yalta regarding matters related to land use. Special attention should be paid at least now only to mentioning arbitrary actions or the inaction of local officials in relation to business entities. This refers to references from the cities of Kakhovka, the Hersonian region, Odessa, the Plain, and so forth, many cities. This is where the complaints come in. shareholders to protect their legitimate interests. These are things that have already been made public by the state in terms of protecting the rights of owners and shareholders in the Lake Dnipropetrovsk market, you know, the Nicole Ferrospoll case and so on. I've got shoes on there, whose shoes, around that question, court decisions are weird. One of the Commission’s work was to consider materials related to the renewal of rights, victims of political repression. From this point of view, the commission received an appeal, most of it from the Lviv region. The interim commission of inquiry on the verification of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens highlighted the need to restore the rights and freedoms of repressed children. This is primarily true of the legislative solution to this problem. It's already decided in Russia and Belarus. It should be said that our colleague, a member of the commission, Viktor Vasilovich Teren, proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in order to foresee the granting of the status of repressed persons to those born at places of deprivation of liberty of women prisoners, were with their parents in exile or in a special population. Honorable National MPs. The statement allows you to say the following. Of course, I can't describe the whole array right now. But if we've talked about this, there's a need to emphasize it again. If the men in the masks took over the market in Dnipropetrovsk yesterday. [[I guess they saw it, showed it.]] It's Poltava-Obelnergo today. If Mukachevo’s deputies were beaten yesterday, has the reoccurrence been repeated in Uzhgrad, is there any real change in the system of the most sensitive links between society and power? The question remains open. If it is not fair and clear to define the real mechanisms that provide such an order of things, the ultimate victim will be both individual citizens and the State and society as a whole. New people have come to power, but in a permanent system of power that has existed for many years and has demonstrated its danger to both individual citizens and society as a whole. Irresponsibility from civil institutions, the inextricability of opportunities, is in fact a conspiracy to use these opportunities silently in their own corporate interests. The constitutional framework of power is generally attractive, but it is followed by an anti-constitutional mechanism of essentially state authority. Everything's beautiful, everything's right, and everything's going in there, inside. Today, all power structures are subject directly to the laws passed by the President of the State at that time. And they're left behind, even though the Constitution doesn't provide for that. The heads of the courts, both general and specialized, are appointed by the President, which is also not provided for by the Constitution. And this affects the state of judicial activity. Directly the mechanism for the operation of the same militia by the prosecutor's office, tax and so forth, is closely consistent with the activities of the courts. The direct administration of this mechanism is not by the President but by those who are not even government officials, government officials, officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u156	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u157	One phrase. They don't have government powers, they have functions to ensure the President's activities, all the other structures of power. But in fact, they run the power, they take all these impulses into the system of power, and they're done because they're used to it: that's right, that's right. And that needs to be changed. So the main factor that can change the situation in the state of power, law enforcement, the judiciary and the whole system of power is the change in this system of power! We started moving in that direction, and the main thing is not to stop. It is necessary to bring the political constitutional reform to an end, and it cannot be stopped. You can't go forward with your head back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u158	Thank you. Sign up for the questions, please. Yes, please, on the board. Kostinuk, get ready to play.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u159	The National Movement of Ukraine, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! In the context of respect for human rights and freedoms, we are approached by numerous voters who constantly ask and ask one question: when will bandits still sit in jails for organizing and ordering known atrocities in Mukacheva, Donetsk, Simferopol and other cities in Ukraine, for beatings near the CLK, for manipulating the CLTC server, for falsification in elections? But if they are, these bandits, they'll be in jail? There is no criminal case against the customers and organizers of these crimes, but no one is forgotten or forgotten. When do you think the bandits will be in jail?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u160	Thank you for asking. Of course, this would be more likely to be the case of the Attorney General or his deputy, for they would have long had to break all of these matters by fact at least for the beginning and then find those people. And of course, when we talk about bandits, we agree on this rhetoric, obviously, while it was so, in the heat, we called it. But only those who have been appointed by such courts should be called bandits. And with regard to specific matters, of course, they should be disturbed. And in terms of, let's say, control from the Supreme Council. You see, we're only talking when we have a moment, we're talking about in the Supreme Council, we have to look at the state of these things. These facts were. And if this commission continues to work, we will certainly turn to them. And that's the question I'm going to make sure of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u161	Please, Oleg Grachev. Get ready for Pellcake.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u162	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Victor Lavrentieevich, as we do not try to talk to you about the rights of a citizen to withdraw from political issues, we see that if there is a power that manifests nationalism, the dynamics of violations of these rights are rapidly increasing. And what do you think, if the Gestapo methods are already being used in detention, what can the Ministry of the Interior and other law enforcement agencies do to make sure that it doesn't, let's just say, go beyond the limits that will say that this power is simply close to the Fascist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u163	You know, I don't think that depending on the oats, there, painting this, let's say, those in power, who have political beliefs, I said that in the end, maybe I didn't focus enough on whoever didn't get this power, this system of power would do it -- and about her! - this system of power will do, already about the horn, the hooves have already spoken, I don't even want to do it again. I'm going to read some interesting things for you. Look, listen: “In the near future, the documents on corruption in the highest echelons of Ukraine will be handed over to the judiciary”, “The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has initiated nine thousand criminal cases on the theft of households”, “Uzbekistan President Islam Karimov: “We are ready to supply gas to Ukraine”, “The President has visited the United States with a visit that is pleasant in all respects”, “Do Ukraine need alternative sources of oil?", "The slave vote is cast by the opposition", "The battle for the Constitution, or the law of the transitional period", "The founding of elections, the awakening of elections. To live when?", "In Ukraine, they're trying to give the dollar a place." That's what I read to you. You think. What did I read to you? I read you the headlines of the 1994 Mirror of the Week. The system of power, if it doesn't change, repeats the same thing. So we need to change the system of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u164	Yes, please, Alexander Pecklushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u165	Victor Lavrentievich, I want to thank you and Karmazin for working on the commission. Only thanks to you today is the report of this commission. Second question. Why don't you call things your names? Why don't you tell us that everything we've been told about the legs that were ripped off has not been confirmed by criminal acts? That's the first question. Second question. As a member of the regional council, Kalesnikov is the president of the regional council, the president of the largest regional party organization in the country, a politician? Yeah. Answer. And if policies are opposed by such methods, the answer is a clear answer is political persecution. We have to call things by our names. Second question. We have said that the destruction of the Supreme Council is under way. A private meeting of the Supreme Council with the participation of the President, the Prime Minister is required and all these issues should be discussed. If we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u166	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, you know why I didn't speak in detail, because there wasn't time, there was something else to say, because the report of the commission wasn't just on one case, but we really got it. Why did I say something with caution that there is reason to question the reason why our Minister of the Interior spoke from this rostrum. It's about these guys. Blow it up like that. the explosions. The thing is, this is really how it works. These explosions seemed to have been, but in 1999 and in a very different case, and when Kolesnikov spoke of this, he told the judge that there was a case where this whole story was repeated literally, after a while, he said that the case had disappeared in Donetsk in 1999. So when it comes to saving the victims, transporting the planes, we're presented with samples for that day: who was flying, where there was a Doña airport, there was nothing like this, that's the details of this order. I think we can do this already, I can't put all these details in the report. As for the fact that the situation requires a lot of thought and readiness for all of us to get together and, without scratching anything and anything here, all of us: The President and the government, and the Supreme Council, may have closed the session and discussed all of these things that relate to understanding what we need to finish. That's how he likes it. They wanted to, and they wanted to keep it. But if we told society that we were going to do something for society, we should do it. And the last. You know, all the time, these moments arise that characterize today's victims. There they are. They realize that they have a political element. But if we say that we believe in something high, if we say that we are Christians, you know, forgiveness for Christians is essential. Then we must not be like those Christians who say that I am a Christian because I love all but those whom I hate. So I think all of these things have to be clearly understood by all of us. People expect us to be here, we're not going to be every single one of us, and we're not going to be able to grab where the power is, everything, and everyone else can be trampled. Everything we've seen is repeated, but it's like a farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich, sit down, please. Mr. Mikhailo Georgiyovich Verbenski, Deputy Minister of Interior, has the floor. Please, five minutes and three minutes. Get ready from the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! As has been said here, I will only deal with the issues mentioned in the report regarding the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The criminal case concerning Kolesnik was violated by a deputy attorney - general. In order to investigate it, a task force was set up, which included the Chevits' investigator, who was arresting Kolesnik. He acted exactly like a member of the task force. Regarding Kolesnik’s fluorography, it should be noted that it was carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Anti-Tuberculosis Act, as well as the joint order of the ILO and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of 331/645 of July 6, 2004 on joint anti-tuberculosis measures among persons held in custody in special institutions of internal affairs. So it's absolutely about every person who's going to delay this procedure and there's no, let's say, special exception to the Kolesniks here. Considering that the case that is violated with regard to Kolesnikov is being introduced by the Attorney-General's investigators, given article 121 of the Criminal Procedure Code, I can no longer comment on it and publish the data that is being carried out in the course of the investigation. Regarding the decision under Kolesnik’s watch, the court ruled and was confirmed by the Court of Appeal. The criminal case concerning the deputy of the Paris City Council of Eugene the Prime is violated and investigated by the prosecutor's office and also to comment on these actions that are being carried out in this case I have absolutely no right and no opportunity. Because we don't have any material on this case. With regard to other issues raised in the report of the special commission of inquiry, there were no specific questions for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and I have nothing to say about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u169	Please sign up for the questions. Three minutes, Gunnery Eugene, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u170	Dear reporter, well, it's not the first time that there's been a question for MPs about the conduct of internal affairs personnel in the course of the investigation. And coming out of a report by the commission's head, it doesn't look like they're gonna be very professional. I'm not saying that there's a political order here and there's a substitution of the notion that just wolves line up in sheep's skin. It is, indeed, a political order, and we will talk about it. But what do internal affairs have to do to make their actions professional and not cause professional complaints, from the point of view of legislation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u171	Thank you for asking. For action to be professional, especially in criminal proceedings: first, it is necessary to adopt the new Criminal Procedure Code as quickly as possible and, secondly, to do everything possible to stabilize the professional core of internal affairs workers. Since the beginning of this year, nearly 9,000 people have been released from internal affairs, and these have been the best professionals working there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u172	Please, Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u173	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I have such a question to ask you, Mr. Vice Minister. In society right now, it's not that interesting a question that we're discussing. Personally, I am very concerned about the fate of the person we are talking about. But the question is, how would you go to the rostrum and say today: this is the main question we have, but here is the major police, the prosecutor's office is doing today, because at some point there's been a decomposition of the land, it's done wrong, the peasant's property pies were given wrong, the farm roofs are taken wrong, the police can't pass through the street today, it was right, you see, we're doing everything, the hatches aren't taking off, the metal doesn't steal, the casseroles are not getting out of the houses, and you're starting to do it for me. You'd say, what did you do about it, farmed, farmed, pies stolen from peasants? Please tell me if they're running factories today. That's when you could talk. And so you've only got Kolesniks and nothing more to do, but you've got nothing more to do, no work to do. You see, there's no business in peasants, no matter how far you go or where you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u174	I owe you one. Thank you for asking. I have to answer the next one. First of all, we didn't get a report from the commission, we weren't familiar with it, we didn't know what the report would be about, in this report from this committee. It's different. With regard to the corruption of the earth and other matters. There are things on the ground. As far as the farm is concerned. I'll give you a list of these cases, they are. As far as businesses are concerned, so are things. But with regard to farming, this may be more social than legal protection. And that's why we need to be more approachable with the involvement of the whole society. And the police won't stay away from this problem. But society should be interested.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u175	Please, Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich. There's a question for the deputy minister. That's the question. Does Kolesnik have any bearing on his attempts at Vladimir Pinchuck and Boris Pinchuck? That's the first question. And the second question. Who threatened to blow up Kiev’s GES, and what does Boris Koleksnikov have to do with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u177	Thank you for asking. I said the Kolesnikov case is being investigated by the Attorney General's Office. And I have no right to comment on any details of the investigation. This is forbidden by law. The case regarding the invasion of Kyiv's GES is also in the run of the Henprocurator's Office. And the investigator only has the right to allow any information to be provided on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u178	Thank you, Mikhail Georgiyovich, sit down, please. It is given to the Deputy Attorney General, Viktor Mikolaiovich Shokin. Please, five and three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u179	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I just heard a report, a preliminary report from a temporary commission, which, unfortunately, I was not previously familiar with. It happened that I did not read the report, and for the first time I heard it just now. So I can only tell you about those criminal cases, that's what I know personally. Well, first of all, this is Kolesnik's business. I think this is the most important thing for this room. The reverend Musiak has just said that the matter is over. In fact, I am informing you that with regard to Kolesnik's criminal case, conduct is complete. He's been charged with extermination, harassment, and abuse of power. [[part of the fourth that was still before that]] [[part of each other]] As far as Kolesnick's rights are concerned as a citizen in this matter. You all know that the assessment of the investigation, yes and all citizens in general, is given by the court. And so I want to tell you a little bit earlier about the fact that this year the Cave Court found the detention and detention of Kolesnik to be legal. The Kyiv Court of Appeal pointed out once again this year that this is indeed legal. So, honourable MPs, let's now give Kolesnikov a chance to get to know him, his supporters of the criminal case, the case is 16 volumes, it's a volume, it takes time to get to know him. Then the case will be referred to the court as soon as they have finished meeting her. We're done meeting him today. They said they'd be worried if they did, for tomorrow, I promise you, the case will be in court. That's why my speech won't be long, because we can't evaluate court actions. I'm asking you, let's wait for the final verdict on this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u180	Yes, please sign up for questions. Three minutes. Sergey Zizko. I'll get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u181	The voters expect the decriminalization of power, corruption, and banditry. And if the new authorities have taken a firm stand for the cleansing of Auggie’s estates that have been inherited from the Kuchma regime, it is only to be welcomed. We expect the Attorney General's Office to take quick decisions to replace the personnel in the prosecutor's system with honest professionals and continue to fight decisively against the criminalization of power. I would like to ask if it is possible to punish lawbreakers without gathering evidence, without delaying the suspects, since appropriate legal action is necessary to carry out this fight. And that's why I want to hear your answer as to how professionally the prosecutor's office is doing today to collect evidence, to do this job that's so important to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u182	Thank you. The thing is, maybe not everyone knows, and I'm smoking all the criminal cases that are being investigated by the U.S. Attorney's Office. So I can assure you that the vast majority of the prosecutions in Ukraine are high-class professionals. The vast majority. I don't mean to say we're all pretty, but I'm responsible for my words: if any of the deputies have any questions to the prosecution's investigators, please, at any time. I accept and will be happy to settle their loving questions. And you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u183	Please, Ivan Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u184	Thank you. Please pass the word to a colleague of Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u185	I thank you, Your Honor Ivanovich. I have a faction. Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist Party faction, Conotapian constituency I have a question for you, Mr. Attorney General. Tell me, please, here I understand Kolesnik's case -- it's a personal matter of a person, a Ukrainian citizen, you should speak in principle here. I didn't get the answer: you support this report or you don't support it, that's the first question. It's different for me. You're a prosecutor's deputy, why are you so small, your prosecutor's office is paying attention because you haven't paid a salary in many businesses, for example, I know in my district? For example, I have a Conotapian car repair plant, six years without a salary. Last year alone, as a deputy, I was able to return one million wages. But all the appeals to the Attorney General's Office and today in other factories, I only get the receipts that it's not state-owned, it's a privatized enterprise, it's infringement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u186	I got you. First. I've already said that unfortunately, I wasn't familiar with the report, I wasn't at all, and I didn't know what was in the report. So I say I can neither support nor deny it. That's the first one. Secondly, if you have any specific questions for the prosecution's investigation, I'll be waiting for you at any time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u187	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Nina Ivanovna Karpachov Please, Nina Ivanovna, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to begin by saying that, unfortunately, one of the fundamental human rights -- the right to freedom of speech and the right to information -- has been brutally violated in Ukraine, which we have repeatedly talked to you about in this room at parliamentary hearings, in particular, and continues to be violated. That is not to say, but the facts show that in Ukraine today a wave of oppression and persecution is gaining hold of the leaders and journalists of the state and municipal media. It would have seemed to me only yesterday that I had to support my colleagues with a television "5 channel" on the day they were supposed to close the TRC "Era" at the request of journalists at 6 a.m. I was already in his television studio. But today I have the same appeal for violations of the right to freedom of speech and the right to information from NTN and Kyivska Russ employees, and the local district media are now working in open censorship, which, unfortunately, is up-to-date again today. Yes, with the visit from the Human Rights Commissioner to the Cherkas region of the homeland, Taras Grigorovich Shevchenka is said to have found that these local publications are particularly under severe pressure. Yes, the editor of The Golden Star newspaper, Olga Chukmarov, the deputy head of the Golden Reich, is constantly intimidated by the dismissal, even though she has only been in office for seven months. Olga accepted the newspaper at a critical time when the previous editor during the first round of elections failed to withstand administrative pressure from the old authorities and protested. Today, the new editor is also forced to give materials for censorship and even dictate the subject. Especially. The editor was officially noted that the newspaper had little to say about Euro-integration, and that was when in the area of problems I was at least scratching. But what happens when they change the newspaper’s editor is that if they change it, Goldilocks probably integrates into Europe right away. The same situation in Cherkaszczina alone today has been the case with the editors of the Malostáristé district newspaper "Zara" Olga Lavra, which has already been tested by both the CIA and the tax collector, and even the SBA, because the editor writes through. as she thinks and tells her her own and professional conscience. With the joint information of the head of the national community of journalists and the Commissioner for Human Rights, the same is happening today, and so is today, the freedom of speech in Hersonian, Ravenska, Cherkaske, Sumski, Luganski, Kharkiv, Poltavski, Hmelnicky, Žitomirski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Lvivsky and some other areas of Ukraine. I mean, freedom of speech as one of the fundamental human rights of today is still in danger. I have to remind myself that in a democratic country, no authority, no political power, has a monopoly on the right of people to information and freedom of speech. Victor Musiak gave information in his report about illegal release, and today I can say that I am authorized from human rights because of the check that we carried out, just after the illegal release of the director of the Russian drama of the Forest of Ukraine by Mikhail Reznikovich, I absolutely confirm that. Details will be separate, running the Authorized takes time. I can't stress another release of the director-general of the National Film Studio of Victor the Comedian's Debt. His illegal release had already been brought to trial, and on May 27, the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev reinstated the alien at work. I cannot help but mention today that I am dismissed and separated from the scientific research of a serious scientist, the most prominent Ukrainian textologist, the director general of the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk Sergey Galchenk. In order to avoid similar situations in the subsequent authorities, we must act only within the limits of the law. Both friends and opponents are the law. I would like to say that the issue raised in the report on human political rights regarding the activity of the authorized person is that the appeal of our citizens has increased seven times on political rights and their violations. 66,000 people asked the Commissioner to protect their election rights. During the entire period of my life, I have sought the interests of the electorate of one thousand and seven hundred and forty - seven national deputies. It's actually four convocations. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u189	Finish up, please. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u190	Thank you. Today, you know, under the walls of the Supreme Council in the morning, there was an action by 30 political parties to break property prices, which is really a discriminatory and barrier to political parties. And this is a problem for the Supreme Council to finally change the Elections Act. I cannot help but say today that the furious pressure and persecution of the executives began with the doctors. That's how we went to Winnitzkin. The entire region today is covered by the release and harassment of the hospital’s chief physicians. We were contacted and personally received by a doctor at the central district hospital in Tristanz - Ludmila Czernovecka, Czervonetska. And we went out at her request and found out, unfortunately, that, just like she did when she was being harassed after the electoral race, that's what they did to the chief doctors of Latin, Pistachian, Teplic district, the heads of the provincial district children's hospital, the psychological hospital -- the question of liberation. But for these people, according to doctors, not just the teams of doctors, there are now hundreds of thousands of patients with the same unwary effects. Today it was said that teachers were being released. I can give these examples, you know that. But it has already begun, in fact, to deprive this category of people of their right to a profession. I was approached by the school's director, Vasilina Dudkovic, who worked as a simple teacher in Old Kosovo for 26 years and led this school team in Ivano-Frankowish. She was released without even giving up the bet of a private teacher. Who's gonna teach our kids tomorrow that started harassing teachers today? Only because she was on no commission, even the electorate did not take part, but she did come for one project, which was then proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Is that okay? And are we not obliged to respond? So I would like to say that I advise people who are being forced to write discharges today to apply for release at their own request, not to do so, but to continue their struggle. And I think it's important for the authorities to remind them that in a democratic country, the main function of power under the Constitution is consolidating, not repressive. And that is exactly what Article 11 of the Constitution obliges. It is particularly important to understand that the heads of local government, who in fact were keenly involved in the clearance of the personnel of government officials and farm managers, despite the valid Constitution of Ukraine and the national legislation, are reminded that under the Constitution, article 119 is their primary duty to ensure respect for human rights and freedoms. I cannot say today that, despite the public condemnation of the illustration by the leaders of the state, this process is ongoing at local levels. Compilation and publication of so - called black lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u191	Nina Ivanovna finish, you're already two rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u192	Okay, thanks. I'm done. The creation and publication of so - called black lists, the calls of people for questioning through the media, have fueled a society’s climate of fear, intolerance, and political hostility. I think if I'm given one, the head didn't offer to answer the question, let's say, if the hall is careful, I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u193	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Chubarov's lineup and let's move on to the discussion. Please, just a minute. Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have high regard for my colleague Victor Lavrentiovich Musiyaki, but I must urge him to speak out of the Supreme Council's rostrum with those or other motivations to find the very ones that would not contradict us by religious or other signs. So Victor Lavrentiovich, calling for honesty and forgiveness, stressed that if we are Christians. Excuse me, if it isn't the Christians. I am sure that Victor Lavrentiovich has no doubt that the same qualities are common to believers of other religions as well as possibly atheists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u195	I think Victor Lavrentiovich, well, got word as they say. Please, the Musiyaki microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u196	I totally agree with you, and I apologize to you, and I meant those who claim to be Christians who love all their neighbors, except those who hate them. That's what I meant, not about. I'm sorry, if that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u197	I think it's all in place. Yes, 30 minutes to discuss, statements from factions. Please, the Final Valery of Gabrielne, the faction of Communists. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u198	Respectable friends. I have been working for almost 40 years at the theater, and I have been pleased to hear from the reports of both Viktor Lavrentievich and Nina Ivanovna, that many places have been allocated to the heroic struggle of our Ministry of Culture with different theatre and cinema actors. Unfortunately, in Babichuca's time, Rostislav Vassiljevic, Ukraine, did not fool around with the ministers of culture. It is they who have turned the Ministry into a testing ground for mockery of Ukrainian culture. Ministers were changed very quickly as gloves, but each of the following officials tended to be worse off than their previous ones. And finally, we've completely fallen down, so we're already in a mess. I mean, it's our current, today's Minister of Culture who's even more sorry about her environment, I'm sorry. The feats of Oxana Bilazir, fearless, uncompromising in the fight against prominent cultural figures who think differently from her, are written many times. The fight against Russian theatre, cinema, artists, exhibition pavilions, circuses and, finally, the total failure and the unprecedented disgrace to the village of Ukraine at the Eurovision competition. The new minister of culture as a person and as a professional, I think, is also characterized by yesterday. I mean, when we discussed the theater and theatre law here. Because some time ago, literally a week ago, I was in her office. She swore that the law needed a country, needed a theater, and that the law had already been discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers, and yesterday I found out that she was lying. Because the position of the Ministry of Culture was quite contrary to what I heard in the Ministry. And that's why I have a question. Is the minister capable of telling the truth? Since yesterday, I'm sure she's always lying, sorry, and everywhere. She's also lying about the Russian theater, she's lying about the cinema, she's lying about the great talents of the Greenjoules. He's lying to everyone and everything. And of course, I have a question: Does she have the slightest idea of conscience, honor, dignity, and decency? Does she have the ability to critically evaluate her achievements by sitting in her ministerial chair? Does she love Ukraine and know it? After yesterday, I'm sure by answering all those questions, she'll be lying again. So, excuse me, I'm standing here on the rostrum and I want to address the President. Dear Victor Andreevich! Enough scandals with us, enough repression in the spirit realm! We've had enough of Grinjolov. If you want to leave the memory page in our Ukrainian culture, immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u199	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u200	I repeat, remove your best man from the Ministry immediately. Thank you for this, of course, not the Grinjoles, but the true talents of our Power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u201	Victor Taran, the faction of Tymoshenko. Prepare Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u202	Victor Terrence, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Here Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk spoke and accused Viktor Yushchenk of not taking the test. I quote, "We couldn't take the exam." And that Yushchenko didn't keep his word and he put his hand on the cut here. Well, I don't know if I should give you a hand on a cut or, I'm sorry, in the same lexicon, I'd like to do the character work, but Leonid Makarovich here was acting like a judge. And the rhetorical eternal question of "And the judge who?" As the head of the Watch Tower Society, I could remind Leonid Makarovich of his words when he spoke to people, at least to remind them and encourage them to keep coupons in the Savings House, and all this money will be multiplied, but all this money is gone. And this is a human right to a normal life. I could remind Leonid Makarovitch and Blasco and the Ukrainian fleet, but I'll go back to the substance of the conversation and tell Leonid Makarovitch that comparing the actions of those who block the rostrum today with us who fought the Bush regime is an invalid comparison. Why? Because of Shufresz and Proscuratov’s deputy, they called and did everything they could to ensure that the court’s decision was not executed. Right? That's right. We demanded that the judgment be executed. Yulia’s test, Timoshenko Hennadia Timoshenko, is pulled from the operating table and thrown into the WHO. There was a court decision on his release. We demanded that the judgment be executed. Belarus’s brain cancer is thrown from the hospital in spite of the court’s decision to release it. At that time, we demanded that the court’s decision be carried out. And that's why there are two fundamental differences: some demanded that in this country, not Kuchma, not Yushchenko, not Kravczuk, but the President was the law, others demanded that the law not be enforced. And so when I ask rhetorical questions, if the police are so bad in Uzhgorod, I ask, who loved her, this militia? Scissor. And if this militia is released, will it not be treated as new political repressions? And so once again, speaking to Leonid Makarovich, those MPs who protected Rizak here, I remind you that the concept of human rights, once again, should not differ with the notion of personal morality and honesty. And when you tried to quote Lena Kostenko here, by your permission, you who protected Rizak, I want to quote also one poet -- Boris Illich of Olives: "The people will not take on the poppy, that is, he feels the act, and who is his son by spirit, and who, in truth, the son of a bitch."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u203	Yes, the faction of the Social Democrats is passing on the word "Regions," so that's where Raís Vasilovna will be speaking for six minutes. And now I invite you to speak from the faction of socialists, Michael Vasilovich Melniczuk. Prepare Igor Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u204	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear friends, reverent radio listeners! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has acted and advocates for the constitutional rights and freedoms of individuals and citizens. We have done everything in our time and will continue to do our utmost to secure the rights and freedoms of people in Ukraine. We've taken a courageous step with you -- we've changed the power of Kuchma in history, and we'll deal with him. And today, of course, such work is being done in Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party stood up for the rule of law and the equality of all before the laws. Clearly, it is not easy to do so. In every case, we would not want to appear as judges and prosecutors. The court and only the court will put a point in the matter: guilty or not guilty of the person arrested today or under investigation. But we need to understand clearly that the legacy of Kuchma has been difficult for us. We know about the theft of state property into billions, the acquisition of enterprises belonging to the Ukrainian people. The list here is large, and God willing to let both the investigation and our law enforcement authorities put the dots on this. But life goes on, and we can't stop at the case that is today. More recently, I visited Montenegro in the Visnik and Putill region. I'd like to say that, if this is how we keep moving, where the people in these areas are, we haven't done anything with you, and we probably won't do anything if we don't say today: we're able to do better for those people to live in these regions of the Chernobyl region. Dozens of calls from the Viennese region in the Lopushnian oil fields. Oil is coming, taxes are not being paid, and 22 million a year taxes are not being paid. It would seem a step--not done. In the Putill region, the Vichy region was introduced today, either by a state committee or by a tender for logging. Thousands of entrepreneurs have lost their jobs. That's where the field of work is. We believe that what we are discussing today is important, but it is important how people live today, and what the authorities are doing to make them live better. This is the position of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u205	Igor Jeremeyev has the word. Six minutes, because he's being handed his word "Democratic Ukraine" by Nightshenko. Please, six minutes. Prepare for Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u206	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The People’s Party faction does not question the right of the winner of the presidential election to form its own command. A change in management elites is a normal phenomenon, which is a positive development, the effect of fresh blood, of course, if everything is done in a civilised manner, in compliance with legislation. But today’s human resources vachanalia, which is unprecedented on a scale, does not fit any standards. Labour law is openly burned, and constitutional rights of citizens are violated. In fact, we are dealing with political corruption. This is the term that best describes the results of human resources clearances that have been put in place by some governors and heads of district administrations, forming teams of loyal subjects. After all, new appointments for all management positions usually take place by category: one’s own, another’s own. And the professional level, the experience, the moral qualities of a person, their authority, all of this, as they now say, is resting. Some heads of government make decisions and recommend to members of the People’s Party whom to choose as leaders of regional party organizations. Today, there are hundreds of facts, appeals, statements, practically all regions where people complain of illegal dismissal from work, persecution for political views. They are often forced to write release applications simply because new owners need to make friends, besties, friends. In many cases it's kind of under the mandate of the orange revolution, but it compromises the new power, brings discontent and disappointment to society. Recently, the head of state, reporting for his first 100 days of work, reported the dismissal of 18,000 officials — an impressive number. But does the President know how many have been released from breaking the laws? This is what one of them, director of the forest management company of the Pritulovsky district of Cherniewec region, deserves the forestry of Ukraine, deputy of the district council, Mikhailo Petrik. "Six years ago, I accepted a decommissioned woodshed, where 70 people worked. Debts of 1 million 300,000 dollars. People have been poor for months without pay. Today, agriculture is one of the best in the region, it has stable profits, it pays taxes well. In addition, 330 jobs have been created and suddenly I am summoned by the head of the regime, Mr. Lukan, and in a categorical form requires that you write an application for release. You won't write, you'll have big problems. And then there's revisions, there's tests, there's trying to get me to write my own application and go." In a similar situation, our one-party, now the chief physician of the Kagarlic district of Kyiv, Roman Milewsky, ex-chief of the agricultural administration of the Jarmolinsky regime of the Hmelnicke district, Yuri Rezun, his colleague from the Krasnopol region of Suma region, Vladimir Kolodzny. This list is very long. According to far - reaching information available to the People’s Party Secretariat, 400 members of the party have been unjustifiably relieved of their work in Ukraine. Of course, these people are not as familiar as being reinstated by the court as the director of the motion picture studio called Longenko, or the director of the capital theater called Lesi Ukraine, but they are honest, decent citizens who have the right and desire to live in a democratic state, I repeat: in a democratic and civilized state where the law prevails. As I was preparing for the presentation, we received information from the Plains region. Today, he was arrested in the Rivna district of Rokitna Rudnický Viktor Anatoliyovich, who created the Aberdeen Tribal Farm in the Polish zone. The charges have already been filed several times, and they are unfounded. In this regard, we have a responsible and authoritative claim that the People’s Party and the Parliamentary faction will protect the social rights of each of them in all legal ways. We will support the proposal to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry, as documented by the faction of illegal dismissals and political persecutions of citizens today, we are sending to the commission of study to make appropriate decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u207	Thank you. He has the word from the faction "Our Ukraine" Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u208	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, first. I would like to make a statement on behalf of our faction that Sklar, Rybikin, Bichkov and Topolov, who are not present today, voted united Social Democrats with their cards. Because of this decision, all of this is invalid. The other one. On behalf of our faction, I want to state that I am personally, and our entire faction is that in our country where we live, there is opposition. And the opposition is strong. Because of this, if there is no opposition, the government will surely do stupid things and stupid things very big. It's an absolute axiom, and once again I say, me and all of us for the opposition and for the law on opposition to be passed and for it to be implemented. One more. Do we have opposition in Ukraine today? I don't know, maybe someone sees her, I don't see her. We have to make a very clear statement today, whether you like it or not, but a huge group of bandits, and bandits are the ones who have millions and billions today, you see, in order to protect themselves, they send teachers, doctors ahead. It's like they're protecting only them. Once again, I am not an apologist of Yashchenka and I am not an apologist of the new authority. They've done a lot of stupid things, and what Yushchenko and Timoshenko have said is that the focus on the EP is going to be very critical. I'm sure it's a huge mistake. Just like Yushchenko claimed that the Gongadze case was being investigated. I say again, I'm not idealizing and I'm never going to idealize this power, I think it's perfectly clear, but today, if we don't ask the question as it should be, we will definitely lose. Think about it, people are good, people know that out of 47 million here, 450 are the wisest. Everyone seems to think so. What the common Ukrainian thinks today, listening to us. What are we talking about, Rizak has a color TV that he's receiving through a satellite or not? What's that guy they're throwing at today? How does he feel about the problems that parliament is solving today? Another is the militia. Yes, I agree. And Lucenko did the right thing by apologizing. But where did this police come from? And I see these faces right over there on Mucak's night when these guys were smoking, and we MPs were fighting the bandits. These are the same ones. Because of this, bandits should be in prison. It's the bandits, not the teachers. Teachers must be protected. If the bandits don't sit in jail, they'll sit in Parliament, they'll sit elsewhere, and we'll have a colony. And the fact that Proscuratova fell on Rizak and got pressure on him, if she fell on me, I'd have pressure too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u209	Last name. Vladimir Yavorowski’s last name was not called. So no replicas. Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, Democratic Initiatives. Prepare the City Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The main problem with Ukrainians is that we do not know how to learn. At first, Marks and Lenin, acting now in military communism and trying to prove to the weak who is in Ukraine the host, by the power of the winner. We cannot learn from Adam Smith, who spoke of the fact that only under conditions of free competition, based on the right that flows from the natural right of man to rights and freedoms, can a powerful nation be built. Perhaps we are taking lessons from Darwin, whose laws in the lion’s midst are that when a herd is forced to leave or be bitten by its rival lion, the next owner of this great flock, who lives according to the principles where one lion and all the rest of it are subject to it, eats up the next offspring. Do we not want to eat the next Ukrainian offspring in this way? Will we teach the next generation today — on a child’s day — whether we can give it? No doubt not. Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko won precisely because he declared liberal values that united most of the Ukrainian nation, hoping that just after his victory we would experience a new one in Ukraine. Did he take lessons in Leonidas Kuchma? I think it's extremely difficult to talk about this right now in the conditions in which we're discussing today. And quite adequately, when we hear that there are political persecutions in Ukraine, only on the one consolidated nation, we can build an effective European democracy. Here in Ukraine not to run to Brussels from Strasbourg, not to bow down to Moscow, to other capitals, but here in Kiev to mention that we are descendants of the Greatest Russia, the mighty ethnicist, the oldest in Europe. I'm sure it's important that we sit at the only table right now, make a deal. So I ask Adam Ivanovich to include a draft ruling, an appeal to the President, to meet immediately with him, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council and the faction leaders, so that this lesson of today's hearing in Parliament is known to the President, so that, not because of the tight filters, the information comes to him, but we tell him: remember that democracy is not perfect, remember the fate of Socrates, who was not executed in dictatorship, and that's when he wrote his philosophical stories, and that's when we heard about him and we're hearing about him until now. But democracy, which voted twice in the Finnish congregations, executed him, condemning him to drink cinnamon. A few days later, his executioners were executed as well. To prevent that from happening in the Ukrainian State, we remember that we are strong only when we are alone. We are weak when we are scattered among ourselves. I urge everyone to be united and to understand that once we are done with this weakness, we will become.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u211	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party, prepare for the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I wasn't in this room when the orange revolution happened, I was on that side of the wall. But I'm listening to some speeches right now, and I think it's a terrible dream. It's some terrible dream, those who broke, used force, lied, confirmed the Supreme Court, and now act as the unfortunate persecutors. I don't know where the representatives of this force are, unfortunately, from the Ukrainian People's Party, which Midan actually brought to power. It's not true what you're saying. It's not true what you're saying. The Ukrainian People’s Party stood in the position that such a commission should be created. But the commission to investigate the rights and freedoms of not two citizens -- one from Donetsk, the other from Uzhgrad -- namely, freedoms and constitutional rights of citizens. I don't know why this report was ready today at 8:30, but why isn't it handed out to the national deputies? I'm talking about regulations. Here 80 parts of this report describe the rights and freedoms of two citizens. How about 48 million?? Our position that truly violates those freedoms, rights and freedoms of citizens. The Ukrainian People’s Party reminds us that as a legacy of Ukraine’s former authority, it has a fifth place in prison and in the SZO for 100,000. Population. But listening to all this, I think that unfortunately, the Supreme Council has given in to this, these emotions and those who are most involved, have been and remain in violation of the freedom of citizens of the Ukrainian people today, acting unjustly as prosecutors and prosecutors. I'm also not satisfied in our secretariat with the fact that I'm addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs as a new one -- Lucenka, who is illegally called to account for the responsibility of a citizen, a graduate, an adversarial of the Shemeric Kharkiv Academy. And my address is to investigate the criminal case that I'm accusing the investigator. I also don't like that the past authorities killed a member of our party, Gaudid. I know she didn't want to investigate the murder of a member of the Ternopil district council, and now the current minister is writing off that there was no murder, but there was an accident. But I wonder why the Ukrainian People's Party today is voting for the position that bandits should be in prison, and the representatives of the faction headed by the minister today are voting for the violation. It seems to me that this terrible dream must be stopped. And the forces that represent the Orange Revolution here should be more responsible not only in the offices where they were brought, but also in this room, so as not to betray those people whose rights it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u213	The word is Raisa Vasilivna Bogatyrova, faction of "Ukraine". It's six minutes, they're handing it over to the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Before I speak, I would like to address all those who now listen to us on the radio and watch the evening on television and the audience in the audience. There is nothing funnier and dirtier when a colleague insults a colleague who is absent in the hall, demeaning her honor and dignity. I want to remind everyone of Churchill's famous words, "If there's no argument, add a voice." And I'd say, and demean a man, a national MP, a woman. I apologize for my colleague to my good colleague Tamara Proscuratova. And I want to say, this is for our electorate: the great and wise Peter I said, "Give the word to man, that every fool may be made manifest." And that's going to be the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to do what we did in this room in 15 years of the National Parliament, by reaching out to every deputy, regardless of the colourful political orientation, even the colourless: we each have our own truth and each claim to the truth, this property of human thinking and behavior often undermines the possibility of making the right decision, especially, this danger is credible today, when we are with you trying to determine what is true and where is the truth in Boris Kolesnik's case. First of all, it is absolutely right that this matter has become a subject of attention to the higher representative body of the people of Parliament. This is due to a marked trend in Kolesnik’s practice of gaining and becoming a habit by illegal acts of national power. In any case, the right solution is the right methodology for the analysis of events. If everything that happened after the change in color, the national idea from blue to yellow to orange, we're going to evaluate in the sense of the parliamentary elections in 2006, we're going to have a chance to see the real goals and the causes of the events. This is the method that must be applied to the analysis of Boris Kolesnikov’s case. As we know, yesterday the CDC filed charges against Kolesnikov. The Criminal Code provides for punishment for the actions he is charged with, ranging from seven to 12 years of imprisonment. I'm not a lawyer, I'm a parliament, not a court, so the Supreme Council is no doubt not a place to refute the evidence base of Kolesnik's investigation and defence, but I have to quote the conclusion of lawyer Kolesnikov, Andry Fedur: "In Kolesnik's case, direct language, there is no criminal, only politics." I'm not going to qualify as a professional lawyer. Let me remind you one thing: he is the one who, in 2001 and to this day, almost alone, does not allow the Attorney General's Office to abuse and prosecute people politically in another murder case, George Gongadze. Kuchma's mode, today's Yushchenka's regime. The killing of journalist Gongadze and the Kolesnik case - what is there to do with these events? Is it? Yes, there is. First, as a result of independent circumstances in the Gongadze case, directly and indirectly in the Kolesnik case, he has a personal responsibility to the people and the world for the results of the investigation, and the President's image today was heavily dependent on the actions of a citizen of Piscon, reinstated as Attorney General outside the will of Parliament and the acting Head of State. Second, both of these cases are the same as Piscoon’s prosecutor and Fedur’s lawyer. In view of this situation, I will allow myself this statement: It is quite obvious that the truth about the murder of George is on the side of Fedur. As for the investigation carried out by the U.S.I., it is disputable, discredited. And I have no doubt that the summary result in Kolesnick's case will be similar. And the third. Those who are now in charge of these two matters have determined the same goals that should be achieved in total. Cynically and brutally, these things have been turned into tools for the prevention of opposition political leaders: in the case of Gongadze, this is Vladimir Litwin, in the case of Kolesnikov, this is Viktor Janukovic. And finally, let me give you some advice. First. The Supreme Council. In connection with events involving the arrest of Rizak and Kolesnikov, it is the intention of Parliament to vote in connection with Piscoun’s mistrust. Given the existing realities, the decision will not be made by the majority, and this will essentially be the quasi-legitization of the status of Piscoon as Attorney General. So the main claim to this person will be eliminated. So let's not do this right now. And some advice to the authorities. The purity of political personality and authority in the state and in the international arena is not achieved by giving half a kilogram of Eurobian gold, which in civilized countries is simply a party rather than a hypertrophobic national event. So is the participation of the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u215	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u216	The only thing that will remove all doubts about the sincerity of power and will lead to all those who took part in the revolution, that the hegemony of your orange revolution was the Ukrainian people, not the holdup of the world hegemony, and that the rule of law in Ukraine is not sleek. And yet a European model.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u217	Dear colleagues! The time we spent discussing it was exhausted. One minute, a line. Who's the Social Democrats? Storm, please, microphone and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u218	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] I would like to stress your attention to the fact that four "our Ukrainians" voted in favour of the ruling. And to say that someone voted for them, that's not fair and that's true lies, because 15 minutes before that, "Our Ukraine" voted in favour of changing the rules and it was voted Atroschenko, Baloga, Greens, Yehanurov, Žebrovsky, Yvchenko, Katerinczuk, Oilynik, Pinzenik, Polischuk, Stacks, Stojko and Bondar. I've been telling you for a long time, ask your fellow MPs to form the mandate of the national deputies and not to falsify any election in the Supreme Council. And today your colleagues voted in their place. And as for one writer who's jumped five parties or four, and he's proud of eloquence here today, for a lady to fall on you, she's got to be crazy. Crazy to go away or not think about the future at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-01-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, as you can see, the discussion of the issue has shown that there is a problem and virtually all speakers have talked about what really exists, and you and I have created this commission in vain, and we see its results, and we may have to make a decision to keep it going. There's a verdict. I'd like to make some adjustments if you don't mind. First. Irregular report. Well, it's a little bit, I'm sorry, the cut. It's just a report from the board. That's one thing. And the second. In the second paragraph, consider it necessary to continue the work of the commission. When we listen to the next report, let's figure out, so we're not writing about July yet, but we're writing that we're "considering it necessary to continue the work of the commission" and put a dot. With such additions, I am voting on the decision to be taken. Vote. [[14:52:56]] For 204 The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 8, the communists are 52, the Ukrainian regions are 33, the People's Party is 27, the Timoshenko Block is 0, the Socialists are 16, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, the Social Democrats are 20, the One Ukraine is 1, the Democratic Ukraine is 19, the Industrials, Entrepreneurs Party is 11, the Democratic Initiative is 6, the Non-Factional 11. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again what we have to vote on: take the commission's report to a known audience, but first. The second and second points are: Consider it necessary to continue the work of the commission. And put a dot. No politicians, let's vote again, dear colleagues. [[14:53:59]] For 218. Let's do it. Oh, again on the factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 3, the Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 43, People's Party - 29, Block of Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 17, Ukrainian National Party - 0, Social-Democratic 18, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 6, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please listen to me. You know, I'm not breaking the rules. You know, you know, it's a problem, it's been a problem for more than a month that doesn't allow the regulation to work properly. And if we don't take it with you now, so to speak, a neutral decision, then, of course, tomorrow we'll start our work with another blockage. I don't think it'll make us beautiful. Let us take this decision: Take the Commission’s report to the public and consider it necessary to continue its work. Please vote. [[14:55:37]] For 237 Thank you. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -2; communists -55; "Ukraine regions" -45; People's Party -29; Block Timoshenko -0; Socialists -27; Ukrainian People's Party -0; Social Democrats -19; "The only Ukraine" -5; "Democratic Ukraine" -19; Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -11; "Democratic Initiatives" -13; non-fractional -12. [[With each vote everything decreases]] At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Four minutes later, we begin the parliamentary hearings related to the problems of the Budget Resolution.
