ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:01]] Yes, there were 385 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, our colleagues Kirilov Viktor Dmitrovitch and Mironek Viktor Andriyovich. Let us welcome them, wish them good health, and long years of life and productive activity. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In the towers of the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is an exhibition of embroidered paintings entitled “The Flowerful Environment” of embroidery, authored by our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Proskuratov Tamara Sergiyovna. So, honorary colleagues, the authors and organizers of the exhibition invite you to attend this exhibition to get a lot of good impressions. Honourable National Deputies, on October 24, 2005, the Central Election Commission registered with the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kobec Olga Semenovna in a multi-mandatory national constituency constituency from the election bloc of political parties, the election bloc of Yulia Timoshenko; Tatuseka Sergija Pilipovich in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency constituency from the political party 'For Ukraine'. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Ukraine’s national deputy Kobec Olga Semenovna is invited to take an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, and to taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let us welcome our colleague and wish us fruitful work. Let's say hello. To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Tatusek Sergey Pilipovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Sergey Pilipovich. Honourable National Deputies, two factions according to the regulations, the factions of the Ukrainian People's Party and the People's Movement of Ukraine are proposing a 30-minute recess for consultations. But it was my understanding that the faction was ready for the performance. On behalf of the two factions, Dmitry Pavličko will speak. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u6	Honourable National Deputies, a statement by the Ukrainian People's Party MPs at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Party of the People's Movement of Ukraine. On October 30, 2005, the throne of Cyril-Methodium Temple at the Ostroza Academy of Patriarch Philaret was sanctified. Because of the Loyalty of the Holy Church of Ostrog, they showed a desire to move to the Kyiv Patriarchate. The Kirilo-Methodiah temple was neglected and only by the efforts of the faithful patriarch of Kiev was it reborn. And the fact that the Ravenna government has contributed to the rebirth of the Cyril-Methodium temple and the peaceful, legally impeccable transition to the request of the Church of the World to the Patriarchate of Kiev, 96 percent of the parishioners by their signatures have testified to this, is deeply appreciated by the believers. Instead, the priests of the Moscow Patriarchate, their mercenaries, the brothers of Korchinsky and the supporters of Vitrenko, who were brought from Odessa and Crimea, the paramilitary anti-Ukrainian organization "The Breakout", attempted to provoke Ostroz. “Songwriters” was delivered by a party of the Regions, personally Viktor Janukovic, who is trying to play a religious map in the election campaign in 2006. To the honor of being careful, they did not give in to the provocation of foreign emissaries. On the basis of the foregoing, we request the Attorney General of Ukraine to reopen the criminal case concerning the events of April 30, 1999, in Mariupola, and to criminalize all organizers and perpetrators of the criminal attack against the patriarch Philaret and the faithful Kyiv patriarch. We condemn buyers of mass forgery during the 2004 presidential election in Ukraine and the organization of interfaith hostility. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a moment. Today, on November 1, 1918, as a result of the Ukrainian rebellion, a rebellion against the Austro-Hungarian captives was created in Lviv. I ask you to honor this historic date in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u7	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kobec Olga Semenovna into the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, two factions, in accordance with the Rules, are asking to announce a recess, namely the factions "One Ukraine" and "BUT". They want to use this right to make a statement. Bogdan Hubsky will make a statement. Please, Bogdan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to point out that the Yulia Block Timoshenko and the One Ukraine have consistently advocated the need for a return to state property of illegally privatized objects. And the sale of "Cruvoristals" for 24 billion at an open competition once again confirmed the huge economic potential of our state. Money from the sale of the “Criminals” is only part of the funds that have been cynically stolen from the Ukrainians in their time. We believe that now is the time to repay the debt. This is primarily the case with contributions to the Savings Bank of the former Soviet Union. These savings were largely owned by pensioners, disabled persons, and veterans. These people were openly robbed in the 91st year, deprived of all their hard work. I will give just a few examples of those tens of thousands of letters that come to us as national deputies. Zosymanko Nadia Stepanovna from the Ivanks of the Kyiv region. A 36 - year - old woman worked as a milkmaid in a cologne, suffered from a Chernobyl accident, and was evicted from the Chernobyl area. He now suffers from severe illness and is constantly in need of medication. I lost all my savings. Helen Grigorovna from Suma City A retired woman who suffers from a severe illness, a varicose dilation of the vessels, is constantly in need of medical expenses. She lost all her money in savings. And such examples are millions and millions of letters throughout Ukraine. After all, this money has been earned by hard work. People have put them away for almost the rest of their lives to provide their children and grandchildren, to build homes, to enable their children to live in Ukraine. These costs were accumulated at the Savings Bank of the Soviet Union. These funds were used in the Soviet Union for investment. These included factories, factories, and power stations. And I would like to emphasize that Krivoristal was being built on savings. That's why right now, we think we need to do social justice and give back to people what they've lost. We insist that all 24.2 billion dollars that have been paid from the sale of Krivoristal should be directed towards compensation for the money savings that people have lost in savings. Because it's blood money, honest money. The Yulia Timoshenko and “One Ukraine” bloc have prepared an appropriate bill. The adoption of this bill will allow for the restoration, I stress, of this word, of social justice, of an act of mercy. Therefore, the position of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the “One Ukraine” is clear – it is necessary to put this law to a vote, vote “in favour” and return the money to the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, once again, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, ask for a suspension to reconcile the positions of two factions: the faction “Ukraine” and the Communist Party of Ukraine. They are willing to make a statement about their position. Who will act? Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens. The faction of the Party of the “Regions of Ukraine” raises concerns about public authorities and the public. We are informed that in the Plains region, where the religious situation was still difficult, and after the appointment of Basil Redonia to the rank of the Plains Authority, mass artificial oppressions of interfaith relations began. And what the predecessor said today is that there is agreement, and citizens make decisions is not true. While President Viktor Yushchenko claimed that the state would not intervene in church matters. Basil Reddony, head of the government, gravely violating the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, issued an order of 413, 415, 417 on September 9, 2005. On October 20, the order is issued under No. 497, 498 on compulsory services and on the transfer of temples to the Kyiv Patriarchate, the Holy Council in Ostroza, the Holy See of the Church in the village of the Great Mezirichi of Corytsky, the Holy Church in the village of Dorogobuschoszczenski, on the return of the cultural buildings of the Holy Church in the villages of Velika Omeljana and Grušviska of the Plain region. In the same way, as head of the government, he provoked Orthodox citizens of the Plains into unrest and bloodshed. So in the town of Ostrigue last Sunday, at Thursday at 6 a.m., an unknown patriarch from the Kyiv patriarch led by the head of the Osrizk Reich administration by Chumak Yuri and began to drive the UPC community away from the temple, Chumak Yury, head of the Reich, sealing the temple with the seal of the Osrizki Reich administration, which has no bearing on the territory of Here, the battle began, Jurchuk Natalija, Karpenyuk Love, Mandebur Bogdan was seriously injured. Near many temples, the Orthodox temples are protected round the clock. Red gives orders to amend and supplement the statutes of religious communities without the consent of citizens. Literally, yesterday, the head of the department of religion of the Raven government was released, reformed the branch office in the sector and appointed priest Marin Stepan Mikhailovich of the Kyiv Patriarchate. And then, dear friends, we understand, the faction of the Party of the “Regions of Ukraine” invites you, honourable national deputies, to create an immediate commission of inquiry, to study.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u11	The point is, yesterday we arranged for the Conciliation Council to consider any decision taken by the committee. You just registered her yesterday. With regard to your ruling on the commission of inquiry, we'll be discussing organizational issues on Thursday, where we'll be putting in order of the day and making decisions. I want to say again, we've agreed, we'll figure it out, we'll wait till Thursday. Well, Pavel Gnatovich. Please. I want to say again, you registered yesterday, the committee has to look into it. Well, listen to me, too. The committees are meeting tomorrow, the committee will consider, we'll make a decision. What do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u12	I want to say it again. I understand, but what do you suggest? We decided at the Conciliation Council that the committee would consider Wednesday, Thursday we would make a decision. What do you want? Honourable National Deputies, a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 has been announced for consideration. [[re-read]] This rule is proposed, and we agreed to it at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, taking into account the fact that we have already discussed this project. He is now updated on the basis of comments made during the first reading, a report by the executive head of the Committee on Budget Questions in 10 minutes, answers to questions in 10 minutes, a statement by the government of Finance Minister Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich within 10 minutes of the decision being made. No warning? Thank you. Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna is invited to the report, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the results of further drafting the State Budget Act 2006 and making appropriate changes to our conclusions and proposals. The Budget Committee on the implementation of the Supreme Council's mandate of 20 October has been working with the authorised representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to conclude and propose a committee to the draft State Budget Act 2006 and has submitted a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the approval of conclusions and proposals to the draft Law for 2006 in exchange for the previous one. In the process of furthering conclusions and suggestions, we met with representatives of MPs and groups. Also discussed are the statements made by national deputies on behalf of factions and committees during the discussion on October 20, this year. The committee concluded that part of the proposed proposals had been reflected in proposals for a draft law. But it needs to be stressed that proposals from factions regarding the specification of budget indicators can be considered in the process of drafting the State Budget Act on second reading. And the result of this consideration is to approve the budget balance and other indicators. At the same time, the budget committee also studied the government’s comments. Unfortunately, we have a new practice of communicating between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers when he tries to evaluate a document that has not yet been accepted and voted on by the Supreme Council. I can tell you that this is already becoming a practical practice, and communication is done exclusively through the newspaper. What principles regarding differences between government requirements and our conclusions have we worked out today? The government disagreed on the increase in deficits, and we heard these statements from factions. The committee agreed to reduce the government budget deficit to 3 percent. We're leaving this indicator at the level foreseen by the budget resolution, which is up to 2 percent of GDP. This gives us an extra 500 million dollars in the government budget. The committee also agreed with the government’s initiatives to reduce the remuneration of the payroll fund. In principle, the Supreme Council and the Committee believe that the tax burden on the payroll fund should be reduced. But this reduction should be systemic, and it should not be spent for just 1 year in order to get pear support in the media. We believe that it would be appropriate to develop a program to reduce tax pressure, to approve it on the Supreme Council and then, by making appropriate changes to the basic laws, to determine the amount of insurance contributions to compulsory state pension and social insurance in terms of year-on-year dynamics. The committee disagreed with the government’s proposal to abolish customs congregations for 2006. We think that customs congregations of 0.2 percent don't affect economic indicators and jobs, respectively, businesses. But they're a tax collector. By the way, I can tell you, dear colleagues, today customs custody costs the country more than a billion dollars. Therefore, the appropriate customs office is the compensator for which the appropriate customs office should be financed. That's why we think that refusing such revenue can cause a loss of revenue in the State budget. This is not the introduction of a new tax, it is the continuation of certain articles of the Customs Code for the following year. The government is motivated by this by the introduction to the U.S.S.A. The committee made the following comments: If we join the WTO, we will be ready to consider cancelling the appropriate customs congregations. The government also fundamentally disagrees with our proposal to remove from the draft law the rules relating to the sale of land. But, dear fellows, it's a requirement for everyone without excluding factions. And the committee couldn't help but take that into account. We believe that the sale of land needs to be arranged, but we need to make direct changes to the Earth Code. Moreover, there are many comments about the need to delay sales, sales and categoricality of the requirements for the further sale of land under privatized objects, since, for some reason, respected colleagues, since the government’s proposals contain the following: if an object has been privatized and the land under it has not been privatized, bought out and for some reason not purchased directly by the owner of these privatized buildings, he proposes to place such land on auctions. What can this lead to? Before the owner of the land is one and the owner of the property is completely different. This will lead to complete vacchanalism in legal relations and may block the work of many thousands and hundreds of thousands of small, large and medium-sized enterprises. The committee agreed with the government's proposal to exclude from our proposals the standard for granting a loan to Ukraine, although when we introduced this proposal, we were based on the fact that, within four months of the following year, the Supreme Council would work for objective reasons in a less tense regime, as elections next year would lead to a three-month break in the work of the Supreme Council. If the government doesn't have to build roads, we won't insist, we agree. In addition, the committee agrees to remove military property for military personnel. In principle, honourable colleagues, this position should not have been considered in the Budget Law at all, since there is a basic law. And in this basic law, honourable colleagues, it is clear that the entire order of sales of military property is solely determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and that it is not necessary to involve the Supreme Council in disputes between the various ministries – the Ministry of Finance, Economics, the Ministry of Defence in determining the order of use or sale of these objects. It should be noted that the draft State Budget Act 2006 is another position that we have considered according to a letter from the government. The government didn't agree that we offered to direct 5 billion dollars to local budgets, but this is a position that is now the position of everyone, without excluding factions. And so to say that these costs are consumption costs that are absolutely not true. According to Minfin, even drinking is worth over 80 percent of the local budget expenditure. According to local authorities, in some cases such expenditure will amount to 100 percent, that is, we believe that additional resources must be directed directly to local budgets. Attention should be paid to the honourable colleagues, regarding the draft State Budget Act, the Cabinet of Ministers had to submit several normative acts to the Supreme Council. First of all, this was highlighted by the Economic Policy Committee, a project of the State's socio-economic development programme for 2006. Project of the State Privatization Program. Bills amending tax legislation, as well as legislative acts that are not secured by the resources of the 2006 budget, are unfortunately not presented. We've identified the basic priorities, the honourable colleagues, on the basis of your suggestions. The first is the provision of the necessary funds for the execution of delegated powers by local authorities, which is $5 billion for local budgets. Predicting expenditure on the development of the agrarian sector as determined by the budget resolution. For carbon finance, plus 1.1 billion, it'll only allow you to pay the wages and there's no development costs. In addition, taking into account the proposals made by deputies and factions, the committee proposes to transfer to local budgets for socio-economic development investment projects, including housing-communal reform, an additional 1.4 billion dollars for the renewal of mobile transport. So to the level of 2 billion dollars. And in the end, we think that we should submit, the Cabinet of Ministers should make the necessary changes to tax and other legislation, process our proposals and give this law back to us accordingly. In addition, I would like to point out, at the suggestion of Deputy Homutinnik, who spoke from the Financial and Banking Committee, we have also withdrawn proposals to increase the appropriate taxation of taxes and to expand the number of local taxes and assemblies and to introduce real estate taxes and to increase the minimum border rates of the single tax rate for small business subjects, fixed taxes and the payment of a commercial patent. Please, Your Honor, support the conclusions and suggestions with regard to the changes made and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u14	Yes, Ludmila Pavlovna, do you have anything else? Is that it? Questions, please write down your esteemed colleagues, 10 minutes per question. Put the names of the national MPs on the board. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u15	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, Cibenko, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. I'm asking you again. Once again, how do the conclusions of the budget committee highlight the problems of the least protected categories from the point of view of social protection, namely veterans, pensioners, military pensioners in terms of the elimination of pension insurance imbalances, the Chernobyls, which, together with veterans, take care of the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, young people? And the second question. Article 71, paragraph 17-18, on children of war, as well as the Law on the Status of War Veterans. In the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, how is this problem reflected? So the suspension of these documents is eliminated, is it not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u16	Dear Peter Stepanovich, very good point. And I have to say that the committee, just like you're saying right now, has taken these proposals into account. First, we disagreed with the suspension of the law on children of war and the commission and conclusions of our budgetary committee include the following: “The Cabinet of Ministers will introduce phased funding in 2006 for this law.” So we removed it from the text of the law. And we think that stopping in this form is not going to suit the interests of the citizens, nor will it fit the faction's position. Because all factions, without exception, insisted that this norm should be excluded. As far as funding is concerned. I can say that in some cases the government has taken into account the standards of the laws in force. But he didn't increase the cost of these payments in line with the increase in inflation. We believe that this is unacceptable in the conclusions and suggestions that such a standard is contained. So we've taken your committee proposal into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u17	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u18	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Sophia Pauline, three brief questions. Forcing land to be privatized to bought-in enterprises is nonsense. That's understandable. In your opinion, will a separate mechanism be developed? Because we're going to get in a lot of trouble. The second question. Where's the money? Why so far no funds have been allocated for the elimination of technological consequences and investment commitments, including in the Zaporozhye region. It's still in 2005. Will it not be the same for 2006? The deposit didn't get a penny. And the third question. Please say inter-budget relations. Wouldn't it be like this year, that the cost is only enough to pay and that's barely enough? Will the year 2006 allow medical attention, for example, to increase food, not a penny, at least a bracelet, or be able to buy medicine? Will we be able to buy equipment? Will we spend money on just the wages of completely neglecting both medicine and education, inter-budget investment commitments and the earth’s ransom, so called?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u19	Thank you, Jaroslav. As far as the earth’s ransom is concerned. At the suggestion of committees and MPs, we removed this rule from the State Budget Act. We believe that it can only be applied in the form of the following: sale of land under new privatizing objects. When it comes to objects that have already been privatized, there is a need for a reassurance that if a person privatizing this object requires local self - government authorities or the Property Fund to redeem this land, he has no right to refuse them. This rule should be applied in an orderly manner. And we need to draw up appropriate legislation, and we need to try one moch, without working for 9 months on legislation, now to change the laws of the State Budget Act -- this approach of the budget committee didn't support it. As far as social and economic development costs are concerned. We're proposing not only 5 billion transfers to level inter-budget transfers next year, but we're offering to give the region money for socio-economic development, that's: both for capital repairs and for construction, and for the acquisition of appropriate medical technology. So all that's going to predict the region in the form of subsidies. The total amount of such subsidies should be 2 billion dollars. With regard to inter-budget transfers, you know that our budget resolution called for the government to form a budget based on social services funding. Unfortunately, nothing was done in seven months. Now the government is trying to accuse the Supreme Council of misjudging and suggesting that it is trying to increase the State budget. We are not trying to do this; we want only one to be brought into line with the budget law by Ukraine. And in order for the government to stop being a statistician who distributes the money that comes from taxpayers to work for Ukraine's economy, to help this economy get more income, then more income will be in the State Budget. We don't have any proposal for legalization of income, we don't have any proposal to get the wages out of the shadows. And we made that clear in our conclusions and suggestions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u20	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u21	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Ludmila Pavlovna, the Pension Fund's budget this year is 16 billion, for the coming year it is projected to be 20 billion. Please indicate that the Kabmin proposals include an increase in the deficit of the Pension Fund through natural sources, a reduction in natural sources. How is the budget committee considering this issue and whether there are any alternatives? Because, after all, God forbid, this could lead to a shortage of the Pension Fund and therefore not to pension payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I'll give you a few numbers of statistics. It'll be interesting for everyone. In 2004, the amount of money the budget spent on pension payments amounted to about 6 billion dollars. In 2005, the amount of money we spend on pension payments is almost 16 billion dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, for the next year, pension payments for pensioners will be budgeted at 30 billion dollars. This is practically a complete crisis in the pension system. In addition, absolutely, no proposal is made by the government as to how today to give economic incentives for the legalization of wages so that we can stop this payment procedure in envelopes. In order to do so, we propose to reduce the tax burden on the payroll fund, but at the same time increase the liability if such payments are not made. Even basic things can be foreseen in the budget or in the law, it is mandatory for employers to inform the employer of what contribution the employer has made to the Pension Fund, even if it would encourage employers to pay such contributions directly. According to the government, the National Bank has a shadow of about 35 to 40 percent of the economy. But finding out the fact isn't the solution to the problem. A statement of the fact should move the government to make proposals. There are no such suggestions. They are more populist: to reduce by one year the pension fund and the corresponding social insurance funds, such losses will cost us about 3 billion dollars. So the government is proposing to reduce the amount of money that will come to the pension fund from the sale of the currency, reducing the rate of such a fund from 1.5% to 0.75. And he's proposing to reduce the transfer of funds to the pension fund by 1.5 bracelets. Once again, we support the system's position on tax reduction, but in the way it's proposed in the budget, it looks like a huge populism, just because it's called today's election, because 2006 is the year of the election. And we need system changes. And that's what the business wants to see, because without honest, open-minded conversation with entrepreneurs, with employers, we'll never solve the pension fund's problems, and we'll push the situation even further into a deadlock. The conclusions of the Committee of Budgets contain a clear position of the Committee regarding such reductions in tax burdens. We support lower loads, but we want them to be systemic and ultimately increase the income of the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u23	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, to me, I have three very short questions for you. First, how do your approaches and governmental approaches to the very corrupt tax in Ukraine change to the value added tax? When are we going to call it off? Can't you see that this is exactly the source of the shadow economy? And today, the continuation of that tax head that is today, Mr. Kiriev, once. Second, how are your approaches today changing, your committee to compensate farmers for the technology they have acquired? Because they're walking along the thresholds right now, and yesterday I had a delegation from the Kirovograd area, but they're not being compensated, not until they say the funds. And thirdly, you ask the question that the government is again planning to abolish the other legislation that we have adopted regarding the financing of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u25	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich! As far as VAT is concerned, our conclusions and proposals include the following: We suggest that we review the order of payment at the added cost and introduce taxes for certain types of activity. It will help to avoid illegal, permanent VAT compensation under fictitious schemes. Unfortunately, it's still working, it's hard to see it in official documents, because it's closed enough, but we see it on the basis of letters and references that go to the committee. I wanted very much not to see the government canceling the rules of the Added Cost Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and others, directly under the Budget Act, but to make changes to the Tax Law. You know, we have the Tax Code, which is actually ten months without movement, and that would be the basis for a good readjustment and budgeting on a new tax base. With regard to compensation for technology, really without financial support from the village, to actually acquire technology today, none of them are able to do so, so we proposed to the government this year, in order to lift the pressure for 2006, to give special transfers to support the village, to adjust the price for the holding and agrarian fund, as almost all factions require, this was the point. Giving the right money to get people to buy lysing technology, under 3 percent of the year's money back into the lysing fund, but for 7 years, it's real support to the village, without technology, without equipment on the naked enthusiasm, the village won't survive. And with regard to the repeal of individual laws, we only supported one proposal regarding changes to the tax burden on the pay-for-work fund. Because it is just today that the government has not yet given us a systematic approach to reducing such taxes. And the second position that we have supported is the extension of the Customs Code law, which deals with the preservation of customs congregations for the following year, all other laws we propose to exclude. The government insists that it has the right to include in the budget law that it can repeal laws and the budget law and that it does not set us up. We proposed in our budget conclusions, that we put these rules into a separate bill, and that we submit them to the Supreme Council for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u26	Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u27	Thank you, Reverend Ludmila Pavlovno. National Deputy Suškević, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I would like to point out that no proposal on the issue of disabled persons is taken into account by me as a national deputy or by the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. I want to point out that 50 percent of the people with disabilities who need prosthesis next year don't get a wheelchair or a prosthetic. Ludmila Pavlovno! In all, I point out to you that the Budget Committee is proposing, as a matter of priority, that the government should pay attention to and support local zoos, as noted in your conclusions. And support the modernization of TE-64 tanks and the purchase of new Oplet tanks. Ludmila Pavlovno! I respect you very much as a person who works professionally on the Budget Committee. Ten offers for disabled people, none included, none included, tanks and zoos.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u28	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I would like you to take a closer look not only at our conclusions, our proposals, but also at the tables. At the committee meeting, we paid special attention to the situation that has taken place today to ensure the protection of persons with disabilities. In fact, we know that there are about 100 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general Today is not enough just to provide basic means of transport. So this table, where the proposals are included, contains the following, the proposals are partially taken into account. And I'm asking that we go back to this issue during the first reading of the project. If there is a need and a need to insist on an appropriate committee, I would consider it appropriate in my conclusions and suggestions to support a single line, to write the following, Valery Mikhailovich. Support proposals for channelling at least 100 million dollars. additional social protection for people with disabilities. If such a proposal is supported, it can then be incorporated directly into the text itself and transferred from the table to our conclusions and suggestions. This is exactly what the committee will support, and, I'm sure that the approach to disabled people will satisfy, directly, and the Committee for the Protection of Pensioners and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u29	Thank you, Sophia Pauline. Please sit down for a while. Finance Minister Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich is invited to the rostrum. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, dear compatriots. What has changed in the process of processing the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budget Issues? We were able to compromise on a number of issues. In particular, we were able to exclude from the budget the opaque schemes for the exchange of military property for housing, similar schemes for Ukraine's oil-gas interconnectors, which created potential opportunities for abuse and corruption. Also supported is the government's proposal to cut down on a two - percent wage fund. Unfortunately, this is the only supported proposal, from a package of government initiatives to reduce the tax burden. The Budget Committee is proposing to reject our proposal to abolish the customs union, to reduce twice the currency-sales congregation, a congregation that affects every Ukrainian enterprise that exports or imports products. The government will insist that all these proposals be put into effect to reduce the tax burden from 1 January 2006. Because we view this decision as an important element in achieving the planned pace of national economic development next year. By the way, land privatization is under privatized objects. Since the entire resource comes from such privatization, the government has proposed that investment projects be implemented. Let me remind you that the government's budget project had a 1.9% deficit in GDP. The first version of the Committee's conclusions predicted an increase in the deficit to 3% of GDP. In a new version of the conclusion, this rule is excluded. Instead, the government is simply proposing to increase the budget deficit. This would seem more compromising, but unfortunately the norm is not in line with the government’s conclusions, proposals, and assignments. What are we talking about? Let's make a simple comparison. The government has submitted a draft budget with the following parameters. Budget revenue of 120.3 billion dollars, budget expenditure, please return the first schedule, budget expenditure of 130.2 billion, deficit of 9.9 billion or 1.9 per cent to GDP. The budget balance for the conclusions and proposals of the committee to vote today looks like this. The budget revenue is 122.7 billion dollars, and the cost is 203.2 billion dollars, 80 and a half billion dollars more. This is 15.7% of the gross domestic product. In other words, the government is asked to increase the budget deficit by eight times compared to the project we have presented. Such an increase in deficits is due to an increase in expenditure of 73 billion, including 10.4 billion direct proposals for increases in expenditure; 2.7 billion orders for accounting; 60 billion proposals included in the table of amendments to the text of the law. The government is offered to form a budget that is 80 and a half billion or 66% higher than its income, while taking into account the need to lower taxes on the economy in full. According to the government’s proposal, expenditure exceeds income by 83 billion dollars or 69 percent. The deficit is 16.2 percent of the gross domestic product. Let's compare the end figures of the government's budget deficit and what's proposed for the vote. You can see the deficit that we started looking at the budget is 9.9 billion. Now we have the critical size of the deficit, the deficit with which the country can't survive. To cover it, there is not enough funding from the privatization of several “Civoristal” factories. The government is convinced that everyone in and out of this room understands the situation. The Committee’s conclusions and proposals lay the groundwork for possible further opposition to the work on the budget. Because the government cannot, does not have the right to make a second reading of the draft law with such imbalances and a serious threat to the financial destabilisation of the country. And everyone in this room is well aware that on second reading, we will introduce a balanced income and expenditure budget project, which must be different from the committee's proposals. Because you can't spend what you don't have. The government wants to stress again. We are willing to seek a reasonable compromise. And that's the way it is. We've talked about them in our preliminary consideration of the draft budget. A possible compromise and an acceptable correction of the deficit, provided that such a correction does not first push the country on the path of living in debt. Secondly, it affects the increase in investment budget expenditure, which pushes the development of the national economy, and thus creates conditions for the steady growth of citizens' incomes each year. Thirdly, it does not create budgetary problems for 2007 and the following years. I stress my interest in the timely adoption of the budget. But it's about a quality, balanced document, a document that the country needs, an economy, and, above all, its citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u31	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich, they want to ask questions, if you don't mind. Five minutes to ask. No warning? What, 10? Please, for 10 minutes, we've arranged to have parity opportunities. Sign up, dear fellows. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u32	Victor Mikhailovich. Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. I have a first question with regard to your proposals for changes in tax legislation. It is known that in Ukraine today there is a flat rate of taxation on the income of natural persons of 13 per cent. They pay millionaires, billionaires and people with low wages. Is it time to amend this law to establish a progressive scale of taxation, as is generally done in many countries that think about their populations? Second point in terms of investment. We talk a lot about the fact that we have 90 per cent of the core funds in many industries. In fact, there are no capital investments in industries and infrastructure such as housing and utilities, agriculture, machinery. What are you planning next year's draft budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u33	Dear friends! I would like to emphasize the fundamental thing about taxes. The draft budget does not contain any changes to tax standards. The only thing that it contains is a reduction in tax rates: a reduction in the rate of payment for the payroll fund to cancel the customs assembly and a reduction in the two-fold currency-sale assembly. Today, the government has submitted proposals to Parliament that tax laws should be amended by a separate law. And the proposals that you're talking about, which relate to the income tax, we can consider on the second reading of the draft changes to tax legislation. As for the second question, it's a problem that needs to be addressed, and I think in the second version of the budget, or the second reading, we're going to take some initiatives in that sector that you mentioned, for the consideration of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u34	Vitaly Homutinnik, "Regions of Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u35	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, the budget committee's mandate is to increase funding for the coal sector by 1.1 billion. Money, as well as increased funding for capital investments in the regions. What is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on these issues? What will happen in the coal sector? What's your position? And that would depend on a very principled question for the MP's corps, the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u37	And also, I apologize for the special fund for financing the coal sector. There was a proposal by the People’s Deputy Turmanov to transfer all coal expenditure to the general fund in order to finance 100 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u38	I'll start at the end. First of all, we're funding in full terms of commitments that relate to mining problems. And that's one of the first funds we've been spending every month since the beginning of the month, including signing a treasury commission for the first decade of November this month. Secondly, we can find compromises, including on coal miners, including on rural issues and on other issues that you raise, but on one very important condition. I think everyone understands the nature of the contradictions that have arisen. We have an additional budget of 23 billion next year. The money that we give wisely is how much for miners, how much for wages, how much for pensions, how much for the village, how much for housing and utilities. I said we could make a gesture about budget deficit issues when it comes to things of an investment nature. But the problem is that they're giving us orders, not 23 billion dollars, but 73 billion dollars more. That's why we call on all the national MPs once again. If we act from a resource that we can really give to society, we will always find compromise, including on miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u39	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u40	Thank you. Kalinchuk, Odiščina, faction of the People's Party of the Volodymyr Litvina People's Block. Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give my word to my colleague on the faction of Vladimir Mystrishkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u41	Volodymyr Master's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u42	Victor Mikhailovich, I understand that politics is happening here today, because when you talk about 80 billion today's budget deficit, let's remember, our understandings on the budget committee touched on what we asked you to learn about increasing the budget deficit to 3 percent. And that's why 16 percent of the budget deficit I'd stop so a little bit. That's the first one. I would like to ask the Prime Minister at all why he is writing a letter to the Supreme Council today, including in the “Governmental courier”. That's the first question of the plan. Are we today seeing all the investment elements that were promised today just what we are collecting from the entire economy today? Costs. That's what they're worth today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u43	Vladimir Yakovic, you know perfectly well, and you can do the math yourself. Indeed, there is no deficit in the draft regulation. There is simply an entry “increase. ” But the budget committee, these conclusions that are given, and the proposals are included in the comparative table, and try to do the math without us. And the sum of these proposals, unfortunately, is the exact figure that we talked about, is 73 billion dollars of extra budget expenditure. Well, the country can't spend twice as much than the budget!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u44	Ivan Ivancho, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Ivan Ivancho, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Victor Mikhajlovich, I would like to draw your attention personally to the approaches to the development of local budgets for 2006, in particular to the calculation of incomes based on local budgets for the following year, are overstated, especially for cities of regional importance and especially for the Zakarpathian region, more than six per cent -- seven per cent. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to review the calculation of the amount of taxpayers' taxes, income, excuse me, from natural persons. And the third. Not included in the budget for the following year is the funding of local education, fire protection, and other sources of funding for vital programs for the local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u46	We're ready to respond to any questions that arise from places, and we're ready to look at the calculations on each of the 690 budgets that the State Budget has to deal with. I'm asking you to transfer your materials to the Ministry of Finance. We'll see again in the relevant department the budget calculations on which you're asking the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u47	== sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u49	Vladimir Mihajlovich, they're asking to include a broadcast on the street. Dear Victor Mikhailovich. [[The raven. Look here.]] For two consecutive years, funds were made available to build a fleet for the Ukrainian-Dunaisian steaming plant at the Killian Shipbuilding Plant. This year, for some reason, you'll come back with a plan for next year's line, and they wrote, "credit allocation." The credit of the Ukrainian-Danube Shipping, which, you know, more than $500 million lost as a result of the war in Yugoslavia, will never be taken. That's why I'm asking you to leave the line again. And your opinion? The second question is the question of the construction of the Danube-Black Sea Canal. This year, there were few but no exceptions, but unfortunately, two lines have now been matched: operational and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u50	Dear Yuri Borisovich, I think the project of the second kind that you've touched is important for the country not only in terms of the economy, but in terms of much more important things, and if there is a need to divide the program, we can take this step. As for the construction of vessels. It's about manufacturing commercial activity, and the government is going to be moving away from free budget funding for the lending regime, because then these costs are going to go back to the government's treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u51	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u52	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Victor Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. We can accept the government’s attempt to reduce tax burden. But the question is, why is the wage fund taken as a tool for this reduction? So the source that the social funds are filling today, including the pension deficit of almost 10 billion, we're reducing the direct source of these funds. If we're talking about discounts, let's do it. about VAT, we wanted to reduce it from 20 percent to 15 percent, so let's give it a chance in three years and take it down in this, next year we take it down by two percent, the next two and so on. This will, indeed, be a direct statement, leave the Circumstances in the subject of farming. Or let's expand the gross cost institution, too, to raise the business activity of economic operators. Why it's only taken into the pay fund for one and a half percent, I think it's some sort of half-pint and it doesn't lead to much, except that there won't be any income for the pension fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u53	First of all, I'd like to correct the information that came out here earlier in the hall that we haven't made any proposals to reduce the tax burden for years to come. They're in the second volume of material that's given to you by the government. We can have a discussion about how to lower taxes in 2007. It's different. When we count the country's finances, we don't share the problems of the pension fund, the government's local budget, we're looking at the problem of the general balance, and in this balance it doesn't matter whether we're lowering taxes, whether it's VAT, or there's no wage bill, because we're making a general balance. I would like to point out that we don't share in the first stage of government or local budgets, why we make the first reaction to the wage fund because the social taxes in Ukraine are very high and we have to make the first gesture in this direction. And why it's important for us to do this in the budget balance, because we understand very well that by lowering rates, we're losing the income of the Pension Fund, but we don't have the right to leave Ukrainian pensioners with no pension costs. That's why in the budget balance we've taken into account the total amount of money needed for the next year to fully pay pensions to Ukrainian pensioners in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u54	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Time's up, sit down. I'm asking the secretariat to invite the National Deputies to the session room. We're about to make a decision. The closing word asks Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna to generalize all these proposals. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, in order to sum up the draft law that the government has put forward, I want to draw only one conclusion. This bill violates legislation for 80 billion dollars. It's not the Supreme Council that requires extra money to finance the economy. These are the requirements of the law. In large numbers, we would have to put this worthless document back into government at the outset, and I think it would have found support for the entire hall, 400 votes, including government factions, but given the difficult situation when the previous government resigned, and this was only working for five days, the Supreme Council accepted the document. Why? In order to make the right conclusions, it does not fit with reality, I officially declare and stand up for this position in court, if necessary, that we are trying to increase the budget by 80 billion. We have suggested leaving behind a deficit that is projected by the budget resolution to be up to two percent, and I can say that in a few days, the government will itself address the issue. And then we're going to ask him, why does he increase the budget deficit? Because it's impossible to do that, to leave it at that level, because we got money from privatization. And once we start spending them, the deficit will officially grow. I would very much like to be true to this situation. And today, when factions that don't enter and form government are trying to solve the problem, the factions that enter the government are blocking the situation, they don't need the budget. They need to continue the 2005 budget for 2006 so that they do not have to be held accountable for anything. I officially say that we have offered to increase the revenue of the state budget by only 3.2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. And these are objective things. This is a tax operation this year. We offered to support the cancellation of taxes on the payroll fund. And this is also reflected in our conclusions. The government doesn't want to work on the laws. He won't accept it. He doesn't want to give money to local budgets because he wants to tear up these elections and ruin the economy. I hereby declare once again that I will stand up for every word in court. And please support the Supreme Council, our conclusions and proposals. They are formed solely by your peers, on the basis of your observations. And nothing else the committee added here, not a word. We have generalized your proposals and they are reflected in our conclusions and suggestions. Please be supportive. If the government is unable to do so, let it rest, let those who comply with these requirements of the budget resolution, the laws of Ukraine, and this budget come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! Can I have your attention, please? Yesterday there was a meeting of the Political Council with the President of Ukraine. Questions were discussed, including budget adoption. I then asked the question at this meeting in this way: "Let's answer the question - does Ukraine need a budget?" And judging from how the government feels about the preparation of the budget, how it works with the committee, is there a clear belief that this budget, which was proposed by the Supreme Council, has been proposed in such a way that the Supreme Council has not accepted this budget, and then will be able to translate all the blame for the failure of the budget process into the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because compromise is accepted in this way if they agree to the government's proposal is a compromise if the Budget Committee proposes to find an acceptable solution, which is not accepted, it is accepted at the level of the Bagnets. So, fellow Members, we need to determine today whether we accept the budgetary conclusions, the recommendations that are being made so that the government can continue to work on the budget or the responsibility that the Supreme Council, by adopting the budget, does not take any further steps. Moreover, local authorities have supported a fully worked project by the Committee on Budgets. We now need to allow the government to continue its work on the budget with the committee. Otherwise, our actions will not be understood. With that in mind, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for five minutes of motivation and then we'll vote. Please sign up. Petrov, the Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u57	Petrov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u58	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u59	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Dear colleagues, I would like to highlight three obvious things. First. Indeed, the government does not need a budget. As they go to the polls, they want to manage the government pocket manually. First. The other one. The Communist faction supports the trend set in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, and we are not all set up. But we support and support the trend. That's a second. And the third. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to amend the Budget Code. For several years now, by approving the conclusions of the budget committee, the Supreme Council has extended the budget option that the people of Ukraine do not need. So we need to make changes in order to divide the conclusions of the Budget Committee and, in fact, the document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u60	Alexander Korsakov, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u61	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please pass the word to Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u62	Please, Bronnikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, Bronnikov, Zaporozhye, “Region of Ukraine”. The faction fully supports Ludmila Pavlovna Supruna's hot performance of our Pavlovna Grounder. He believed that the country could not live without the budget. But the faction disagrees with the fact that a country may live with a government that is unable to prepare such a budget. Therefore, the faction of the Regions will only vote in favour of the budget if we tell the President that the government has to resign, the government cannot handle the budget and only then assume responsibility for the finalization of the budget as needed by the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u64	Basil Nadraga, please, microphone of the People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u65	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, today our faction has studied in great detail the issue proposed and discussed today under the 2006 budget. Our experts explained that it was natural not to adopt the budget committee's proposal to disrupt the entire budgetary process in the State. And whatever good intentions are made today and there is no justification for not adopting the budget, we can undermine the social obligations of the State next year, education, health care, the thermal security of the housing complex and the fact that, in large measure, it is the urgent needs of the population, not the politicians themselves. The faction of the People's Party of Lithuania has therefore voted in favour of the budget and will vote. We believe that we must give our proposals to Kabmin and get what we have proposed and process it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to train the government to comply with the budget resolution. This is for you, Your Honor, a plan as could be a code of honor. I understand that this budget came from the government of Yulia Timoshenko, and I know that, and that's why I want us to now accept the conclusions that Mrs. Suprun has reached today and the Committee on Budgets. And they predicted that the State Budget Act could not be repealed by other laws, that today all those so-called benefits could not be abolished, but that compensation could actually be paid to both the military and the pensioners, and to all those who were deprived. Come on, people, you can't do this. We have to vote for the conclusions, and Mr. Pinzenik please take into account all that has been said and do, indeed, the normal budget law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u68	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u69	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Kirilchuku Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u70	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u71	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Kirilczuk Evgen Ivanovich The faction very carefully analyzed the budget, and we came to the conclusion that, first of all, the pace of the economy being driven out of the shadows, the old schemes of money theft are being restored, the old holes in the borders of smuggling. So the government isn't set up to seriously increase gross domestic product by getting out of the shadow sphere. In eight months, was it possible to increase the budget by two and 100 billion gross domestic product? So why can't we do this now? We suggest we get him back to the government for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Once again, dear colleagues, we've adopted the Budget Resolution, we've accepted it by a constitutional majority. Unfortunately, out of the 112 provisions contained in the budget resolution, 36 were not counted by the government. But the budget committee did everything to remind the government that we need to implement the budget resolution together. In this regard, we need to accept the document proposed by the Budget Committee. This is another attempt to come to an understanding and an acceptable decision with the government. Taking this into account, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the budget committee for the adoption of the draft Supreme Council Regulation of Ukraine as a decision on the approval of conclusions and proposals under the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006. Registration number 8,000-P. Please vote. [[11:17:53]] For 270. Decision taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction is 56. “Ukraine” -29, National Party - 44, “Our Ukraine” -40. Block Timoshenko - 0. SPI-0, Ukrainian People's Party 22nd. SDPU(o) – 1, “Go ahead, Ukraine!” – 19, “Trust of the people” – 15, “Reforms and Orders” –2, “Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, “The People’s Movement of Ukraine” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 12, “non-fractional” – 13. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u73	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think there was a vote that was going to happen. And on behalf of the faction, I ask that the results of the vote be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine so that, let's say, the country knows who wants a normal social budget and who wants no budget to manage government money manually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, don't you have such an offer? I think it's going to be a good election material. We're going to publish. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. A draft Law on the administration of public property objects is being published for consideration. Reporter Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u75	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies, People of Ukraine. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Management of Public Property Objects was adopted on first reading on 20 April this year. The second reading to the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property, Investment received 115 proposals, most of them submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Twenty-three proposals were rejected and the rest were taken fully into account and some were taken into account editorially. The Committee considered the draft bill prepared for second reading on 21 September and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the Act on the Management of Public Property Objects on second reading and in general. Since the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council made a number of comments on the bill, the Committee reviewed it on 19 October. It was decided to accept some of the comments of the Legal Office and to introduce drafting in those bills. At the same time, the Committee reaffirmed its previous decision, to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council for adoption on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u76	Yes, let's do the repairs, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u77	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, 15th Amendment Are you insisting on her, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it doesn't. 20th, Sergey Zizko. Are you insisting? Makeyenko, 21st Amendment. Rudzkowski, 22nd you insist on her? There's Rudzkowski. Yuri Carmazin, 28th Amendment. Yuri Anatolyovich, Yuri Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I propose that paragraph 5 of Part 1 in Article 5 be supplemented by the words “the leaders of the largest state-owned enterprises and shareholders’ associations, and the authorized persons whose list is determined by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. Do you understand why I'm doing this? I do this to make the management of state property more transparent, more predictable, and not to be the case with Krivoristtal when certain forces used such serious objects to their advantage. So I don't understand the reasons why this amendment was rejected and I would ask, after all, to accept it and agree with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u80	The amendment is purely populist, so we propose to take into account the amendment made by the Cabinet of Ministers on page 8, on top of amendment 6. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u81	Amendment No. 28 of Yuri Karmazin, page 8. [[11:23:10]] For-30 Correction not accepted. Amendment 34 Carmagine on page 9. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u82	There was another 30, which is written in part, that's actually very small. But in the 34th, which is also rejected, I propose paragraph 10 of the first part of Article 5 to put it in the following wording: "It decides to sell in a period of time the shares, the parts attached to the state property or parts thereof." So far, it has been written in this case, and so far it has been taken into account, "He accepts the submission of the State Property Fund of Ukraine". It's practically reflected, but in the 1930s, in the 30th amendment, where it was a matter of alienation from state property, transferred to the administration of state corporate rights or the commission of actions that could result in the alienation of these corporate rights of state property on transfer in accordance with the law of state property property to municipal property, that is, consent to transfer objects from municipal property to state property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u84	Amendment 34. Someone has to make proposals on the early sale of the stock package. We propose that we leave this to the State Property Fund, which is perfectly logical for all and legal rules and so on. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u85	Amend to vote. So it was partially accounted for. Well, we'll come back if we put the 34th amendment on the vote, then we'll go back to the 30th. Amendment 30 of Yuri Carmazin, page 9. [[11:25:28]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Let's go back to the 30th Amendment. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u86	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's very important that life has shown that actions that result in the exclusion of corporate rights from state property, they take credit, and then, you know, the court's decision and so on, they're reprimanded. So I asked a question to stop it. I have expanded what is now and recorded "the decision to alienate state property transferred to the administration of state corporate rights or to take action that may result in the alienation of these corporate rights from state property, the transfer of property in accordance with the law of state property to municipal property, gives consent to transfer the property from municipal property to public property." You see, it substantially expands the guarantees of the integrity of that state property. I don't understand why the committee rejected this amendment. You know, it's purely legal that it doesn't allow you to steal any further schemes that are still being used. Look what is happening in Naftogaza. That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u87	I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u88	The 30th Jury Karmazin is amended to vote. Dear colleagues, let's keep working. [[11:27:07]] For-22. Correction not accepted. Let's move on. Amendment 47 of Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, this is page 14, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u89	It's about changing the article six. Dear friends, I see the approach of a hall such that it is indifferent after the adoption of the budget. But it's a very important law. I'd like to put it this way. They transfer the functions of managing state-owned property to households and authorized persons to contract and manage their property and monitor the efficiency of their use, execution, and implementation of the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's very important that it's about what they're doing and controlling and making deals with property management. And I think that would improve the law. I don't understand why the 30th amendment was rejected and not counted. I just don't understand the committee's motives, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u90	In order to understand, we need to attend a meeting of the Committee when invited. That's the first one. Second. On this issue, we have consulted with the General Legal Office. The General Legal Office also concurred with the Committee's view that, in this case, the contract was more consistent with the spirit and style of the law than the management treaty. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u91	Amendment 47 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:29:01]] For-28 Correction not accepted. Amendment 59, People's Deputy Žizko. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Let's move on. 69 Amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on her? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u92	Dear friends! I wish we didn't contradict common sense. In part one of the first article 10, I propose that the following should be made: “The authorized persons shall perform the functions of administration of State corporate rights in accordance with the property management contract, which shall be made up of the authorities responsible for the administration of public property or the National Property Fund of Ukraine with the authorized person.” What happened? This happened, for example, as the "Blasko" Courts were preceded, they were buried in a pattern: one ship, one company, everything they did and the offshore and the contracts they did not make, and where they were concluded, no one controlled them. So I'm writing right now that the authorized persons are doing a management function according to the contract so that they can't do something on their own, manage the property that's being deposited, or there's Mintrans, or there's another ministry, or the State Property Fund with the authorized person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u93	The answer is the same as the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u94	Amendment 69 of Yuri Karmazin, page thirty-three, is put to the vote. [[11:30:57]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Michael Dobkin, amendment 71. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin. 75 revisions. You insist. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! I propose this same article, article 10, to complete part seven and to make it as follows: “ Without the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, state corporate rights granted to an authorized person cannot be alienated from state property. And for them, those to whom they are transferred to government cannot do anything that could result in the exclusion of these corporate rights from state property. This is actually a continuation of the line to cover up the possibilities of the oligarchs to be taken into office, and there are still such factories today, and then to be alienated for their own benefit. Today, this is done in the alcohol industry practically around the world, making it a waste in other fields. That is why I believe that this should be completed. In a different way, I don't see this law if it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u96	In fact, this amendment is taken into account in article 11, which is referred to as “Government of State Shareholder Societies”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u97	Amendment 75 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:32:50]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Amendment 78 Victor Mironka. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Ludmila Polakova? Larissa, I'm sorry. Larissa Polakov, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. So, Polakova doesn't insist on repairs. Yes, Alexander Frost amended 94. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin. 105 revisions. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist? The '90s? Let's go back to the '90s. Yeah, the '90s. Carmazine, overruled. Yeah, I missed it, I'm sorry. 90 repairs to Carmazine. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I am drawing your attention to article 11. I propose that part four of this article should be drafted as follows: they cannot be alienated from state property until the prohibition of their privatization is lifted, or by virtue of the obligations of the authorized person, which may result in the alienation of such shares. This is one of the guarantees that I see these actions done to them, according to the law, transparently and for the benefit of our people. That's why I'd like to count it. But the committee, if it takes the same position, then please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u99	The Committee proposed such an edition, and the return proposed an edition that was presented in a different way. : “regardlessly, they are not acting, which may result in the exclusion of these shares from state property until the ban on their privatisation is lifted”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u100	Yes, this is Amendment 90 of Yuri Carmazin, page 39. [[11:35:19]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Amendment 105, Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u101	I ask the question that we have article 14, which is called “Remuneration to Heads of State Enterprises”, which is written “according to the decision of the body authorized to manage public property, managers of state enterprises may be paid a reward on the basis of the financial and economic performance of these enterprises on the basis of their net profit. The procedure for awarding, conditions and specific amounts of remuneration shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and shall be an integral part of the contract of employment, the contract with the Head of State Enterprise.” I think that this article should be excluded because everything is provided in the contract and there is some additional prerogative in relation to the manager, in relation to the employees of others who are still in a worse position as a separate article. So I'd like to delete this article, but it's in the new edition, in the 19th, it actually went the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u102	Well, she's left behind. By the way, it provides that the Cabinet of Ministers constitutes these conditions of encouragement, and these are part of the employment contract with the head of the State enterprise, that is, what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u103	It's the vote of the 105th Yuri Carmazin, this is page 53. [[11:37:11]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Zaplański – 107 amendments. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. All other amendments have been voted on. What a proposal for a committee, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u104	Let's take it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. A committee proposal is put to the vote: adoption of the second reading as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on State Property Management. Registration number 6027. Please vote. [[11:37:59]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 36, the People's Party 28, Our Ukraine 3, Block Timoshenko 0, SPU 24, the Ukrainian People's Party 22, SDPU 0, Forward, Ukraine! - 1, “Trust of the People” - 3, “Reforms and Order” - 0, Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 10, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “One Ukraine” - 3, “Postfactional” - 5. What's the committee's offer? Who's in charge, please! – to go back to the second reading question? Registration number 6027. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:38:57]] For 210 Dear colleagues, all the comments, all the suggestions made by the people's deputies have been considered. There is no reason, then, for us not to consider this law. Please invite the national deputies to the session room, your honor, we need to make a decision. Dear colleagues, please come forward, the vote will now have to be voted on, I beg of you. The bill is now being voted on, please come to me. Dear National Deputies! Who's to go back to the draft law on the administration of public property objects registration number 6027? Please vote. [[11:40:07]] For 235 We're back. Who's to support the committee's proposal for adoption in second reading as a whole as a law? Draft law on the administration of public property units registration number 6027. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:40:36]] For 233 The law is passed. Thank you. The factions, please. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 44, National Party – 41, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU-25, Ukrainian People's Party – 21, SDPU (O) – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 0, “Trust of the People” – 6, “Reforms and Order” – 0, Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “One Ukraine” – 12, non-fractional – 13. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the National Manufacturer from Dempping Imports, Vladimir Demjochin, registration number 7117, has been announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Dear colleagues, we need to consider in the second reading, in addition, another bill, please mobilize for fruitful work. Let's go straight after the repairs. Let's do the repairs and all that one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u106	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Since 1998, the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of National Producers from Dumping Imports has entered into force. The draft Act 7117 “Protection of a national producer from dumped imports” is purely procedural and changes related to the incorporation of certain aspects of national legislation into world standards. According to the bill, the Committee received 24 amendments, of which 22 were fully taken into account. Drafting with legal rights is one and the rejected amendment of the Noshchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u107	Mikola Petrovich, are you insisting on your amendments? Turn on the microphone, please. Amendment number four, part two of this amendment. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u108	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian National Block. It would be good if the reporter said that 18 of my amendments were taken into account, or he focused on the fact that two of them were off-limits. We are now looking at one of the effective market mechanisms that has an impact on cases where the prices of imports into Ukraine are underperforming. And this question is put on the intercom. Therefore, my amendment to the status of this commission. Because in the case of disagreements between the owners and the commission’s decision to appeal to whom? To the Ministry? It's not the Ministry's decision. The commission headed by the deputy minister of the economy also lacks the status of this commission. That's why my amendment was made. But given the fact that the commission considered it without my participation and I couldn't convince them, I'm taking this amendment down, and I'm going to insist on amendment number 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u109	Dear Nikolai Petrovich, the point is that, of course, I could list all the amendments that we have considered, you have actually participated actively, but today it is only those amendments that have not been taken into account. And I agree that the twelfth amendment, if we were to work more actively with you in the preparatory phase for second reading, might be a positive decision by the Committee. I therefore believe that we can support our amendment, the twelfth and would like to request the people's deputies to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the number 12 amendment of Mikoli Petrovich Noshchenka is put to the vote. Please vote. What? Change the vote. Noshchenka's microphone. Change the vote. Did we get something wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u111	No, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I didn't argue with the twelfth amendment. I took the fourth one. And the 12th, give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u112	Then, please, argue with the twelfth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u113	Nightshenko, 160th constituency, Sumstina, Lithuanian People's Block. The twelfth amendment. Its essence is that the previous anti - dumping measures are applied for four months and stop after four months. But there are sad times in life when after four months the commission does not meet and the decision is not made, and immediately there is a hole on the border through which the discerning owners oppose their goods. As a result, my amendment, the essence of which is that the previous anti-dumping measures continue to be convened by a committee, a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u114	The committee supports, I understand, this amendment. So I'd like your attention, Your Honor. The vote is amended as follows: 12 Santa Claus. Please vote. [[11:45:51]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Other amendments are all included. So, dear colleagues, please, the Cabinet of Ministers is very brief on the question: Do you support this law? ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ It supports the Cabinet of Ministers' support for the bill of amendments tabled by the People's Deputies, which it considers to be very important in the context of the protection of the national producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, here they insist another 197 on the 12th amendment to vote once again. I'll put it to a vote. Who's to go back to looking at the 12th amendment? Please vote. [[11:46:57]] For 221 The decision is not taken. I can't put the vote again. Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Submits to the vote a proposal to the adoption committee on second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the National Manufacturer from Dumping Import, registration number 7117. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:47:34]] For 291 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on special investigation]] Registration number is 7127, second reading. All the amendments are counted here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u116	All of them. One rejected, 13, of the People's Deputy, because this amendment is irrelevant to the rule of law. Dear colleagues, please support the bill on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u117	Mikhaylo Zyjinov, insists on his amendment? No, it's not. I'd like your attention, dear colleagues. Submits to the vote a proposal to the adoption committee in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of special measures for imports into Ukraine. [[on special investigation]] Registration number is 7,127. Please vote. [[11:48:43]] For the 320. The law is passed. So, your honorary colleagues, we passed two Soviet laws. You see, if we find a common position worked out, we don't have any problems. Dear colleagues, let's begin our consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[new editor]] Viacheslav Koval. Who will report from the committee? None. Then let us now go to the draft Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6450. Reporter Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyovich, are you ready to report? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. So it's suggested that, honourable colleagues, five minutes to report on the law, three minutes to answer the question, three minutes from the committee, and another 15 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u118	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear National Deputies, you are offered the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I am deeply grateful that we have finally reached it. The authors of the project are people from different factions, except Carmazin, Bandurka, Onichuk. Markusz, Moroz, Pisarenko, Potemenko, Ratushnjak, Musiyaka, Zarubinsky, Gurov, School, Nadraga, Melniczuk, Rudzkowski This law, I report that, in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution, it is established that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, within its powers, may establish temporary special committees to prepare a preliminary examination of the issues and to conduct an investigation into issues of social interest. He creates temporary commissions of inquiry if not less than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for it. The findings and proposals of the interim commissions of inquiry are not decisive for the investigation and the court, and the organization and order of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its temporary special and temporary commissions of inquiry are established by law. The adoption of the project, which we are now proposing, is aimed at legislative regulation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established by article 89 of the Constitution. This project also takes into account the proposals made by the President for similar projects, which were repeatedly considered in this room and which were presented by the Legal Policy Committee at the time, including me. The new edition of the project, which is now being submitted, takes into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Academy of Law, the National Academy of Law, the Yaroslav Wise, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This Law will not require additional financial expenses from the State Budget. He foresees that special commissions of inquiry are being set up, a special interim commission of inquiry to investigate the removal of the President from office in the order of impeachment is a collegiate interim body of the Supreme Council, whose task is to investigate the facts set out in the signed majority of the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition in the application for the removal of the President from office in the order of impeachment in connection with his treason or other crime. The interim commission of inquiry is a special commission of inquiry, and this is a temporary commission of inquiry, which is a college temporary body of the Supreme Council, whose task is to carry out parliamentary control by conducting investigations into issues of social interest. The temporary special commission of the Supreme Council thus differs from a special, temporary commission, as it differs under the Constitution. The Commission, in accordance with article 3 of the draft, is accountable to the Supreme Council and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, except for the impeachment commission, but no later than 6 months after its creation, is given a written report to the Supreme Council on the work done. This law also provides for the financial and material and technical provision of the work of the commission, for the order of participation of experts on board, for the guarantee of the protection of the labour rights of those persons who are involved in the work of the commission. He foresees responsibility for violating the requirements of this law and fully regulates the activities of the commission of inquiry. Provided that the grounds for the appointment and conduct of parliamentary investigations may be reports of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, laws or other legal acts by the authorities of the State, local authorities, their officials, business leaders, institutions, organizations of any kind of property on matters of social interest. The commission of inquiry details the order of the establishment, the order of the meetings, and the rights of the commission of inquiry. In accordance with the draft, in the order set out in the Information Act, it has the right to require the information necessary to investigate information from the authorities and local authorities, their officials, to consult documents that have a direct or indirect relationship, to delete documents necessary for parliamentary investigation, except where these are concerned. these documents have been requested by the court or the judicial investigation body, or copies thereof. I want to tell you that the activities of the commission with the activities of the law enforcement agencies are being developed. And the responsibility is for the commission of inquiry: both to keep records, and to record all the information, to collect information. It's all foresight. We also predict that tests will be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u119	Let me finish Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u120	The project envisions honorable national MPs, the activities of the impeachment commission, the specifics of material accumulation, the powers of a special investigator, and the mandate of a special prosecutor. And I want to tell you that we have this situation in the country right now, that if the Attorney General committed a crime, no one can investigate anything today. Do you understand? So what we need to do is make it clear. And so I would ask you, it's a small law, but without it today, all the commission investigators formed by Parliament are practically unable to work. So I'd like to vote for him, and then I'd like to make the proposals you're going to have to unlock this process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for a question to Yuri Anatoliovich. On the board, please show the names of the national MPs who have signed up. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u122	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Nigga. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, indeed, such a law is necessary and I believe that it can be supported in the first reading. But please tell me, where are the guarantees that these commissions will be read by both the President and the law enforcement authorities and the Cabinet of Ministers, and so on? Today, we can see that they are merely acting against, refusing to work and, in general, ignoring the decisions or conclusions of these committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u123	Thank you for the professional question. Indeed, obstacles are being made today and materials are not being provided, but only because they say, “There is no law on the commission of inquiry!” But without the law on commission investigators, there is criminal responsibility for failing to meet the requirements of the commission of inquiry. But we had a “hand” attorney general, specifically the person who occupied it. Therefore, no case was taken for failing to meet the legal requirements of the commission of inquiry. They refer only to the absence of a law, “let there be loving law, and then we will do it.” They want the law, let's give them this law, which is what I'm talking about. Thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u124	Vladimir Pehota, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u125	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vernidub John.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u126	Ivan Verni Dubov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, in fact, the greatest difficulties in the work of the commissions, arise in relations with the law enforcement authorities, especially with the authorities of the pretrial investigation. They really don't give anything, they won't even let you know about the documents, even though they're not secret. But once in this bill, you're avoiding the term "law enforcement" at all, and it's only him there once. Is it conscious or faulty, is it really enough, in your opinion, that all public authorities give guidance to the commission? I think we should say it anyway, and because the CPC does not allow it, it's clear that the law enforcement authorities have to do this, that and that. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor, Ivan Vasilovich. Who, as it were for you, the Attorney General, would know what was going on, what the perceptions of the adoption of this Law and on the basis of the expert conclusions that we were given. Unfortunately, all they wanted was to limit the rights of MPs. I'm sorry. And so, in article 23, we foresee the obligation of witnesses to a commission of inquiry, that is, all citizens and officials of the public authorities, and the law enforcement authorities are the authorities of the state, obliged to appear at the challenge of the commission of inquiry and to give a true witness to the circumstances they are aware of on matters that are the subject of parliamentary investigation. And, also, they are obliged to provide documents. If you want to specify this, let us specify and write what is the responsibility of the preliminary investigation body, which is the responsibility of another so - called law enforcement body. Since law enforcement agencies are now involved, not everyone can be called a law enforcement agency. So let's take another approach to the constitutional definition. And the Constitution defines an “investigative body” or “court” or “prosecution”. These are the definitions in the Constitution. Therefore, precisely because of this, the word “law enforcement” is not really available in this text of the law. But I think it's right that it's missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u129	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we'll announce a 30-minute recess until 12:30. After the break, the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules and MP ethics, Gabrieluk, will speak. And before we go into the discussion, Vasil Onopenko will speak, which has a draft decree on inadmissibility. Then we will vote on this proposal, and if the decision is not made, we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u130	Yes, dear fellows, we are continuing our meetings. Please, Gavriluk Vasil Vasilovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u131	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, introduced by the draft Ukrainian Law, registration number 6450, dated 11.04. In 2005, a very important, necessary solution to the work of temporary investigators and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided for in article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which sets out the following. The organization and organization of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its temporary special and temporary commissions of inquiry, is established by law. As you know, the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1995 with the latest changes to it in 2000, while the Law on Temporary Investigators and Temporary Special Commissions is not available at all. You remember, my friends, that I may have recalled that the bill was voted on three occasions in the previous call, but unfortunately the president did not sign it. First. The other one. Perhaps one of you is a member of one or other temporary investigators or special commissions, perhaps a few. Still, you feel the need to regulate the legislative activities of these committees. Third. We are constantly confronted with the fact that unfortunately, no executive power, no other branches that may not be responding today. And we're all talking about strengthening parliamentary control. In the view of the committee, this bill on temporary investigators and special commissions, which is the author of not only the national MP Carmazin, but also many authors, co-authors, is very important in terms of strengthening parliamentary control. There is, and unfortunately, a misunderstanding from the point of view of the Rules violates the second part of article 6.2. 3 Rules and 6.2. 7, i.e. there are no conclusions on financial and economic justification, nor is the Supreme Council's proposal for a project that we should accept with you. But given that the previous comments that our committee made and the Scientific and Experimental Administration had all been taken into account in the advanced version. The committee suggests that the first reading be based. The Scientific and Experimental Authority also believes that it is possible to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u132	Yes. Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Any questions? None. Sit down, then. Please. It's not a shortened procedure. Vassil Vasilovich, one down, the other up to the rostrum. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. There is a decree, a draft decree on inadmissibility. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u133	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Remember the desire: between two Vasili Vailovichi. Dear colleagues, of course, it's an excellent idea. For good reason, former President Leonid Danilovich promised the bill five times. But I would like to say or recall what our wise Ukrainian people are saying, that the good intentions may be the high road to hell or to lawlessness. So when we adopt this bill, we have to think about how well it fits the Constitution and the current legislation. It should be noted that according to article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the state authority in Ukraine is exercised on the basis of its division into legislative, executive and court. If you read the bill carefully, such as articles 14, 22, 23 and some others, you will see that it does not even smell like the Constitution. Because the project is designed to provide temporary investigators and special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with such powers as access to information, to invite any person to explain, to demand a witness from even those who have obligations under the law not to disclose certain information, to remove any material, to decide on the removal of the relevant officials from office until the investigation is completed, and so on. Moreover, it is trying to transfer the powers that are now part of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Security Service and other law enforcement agencies, and those that are governed by the current Criminal Procedure Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Prosecutor's Office Act, the Security Service, the Operational Investigations Act and so on. And I'm even really worried, and I'm getting out of the broad pants, as the saying says, one book that's interesting is the Constitution of Ukraine, which says that no one can be searched any other way than by a reasoned court decision or a home invasion, by a reasoned court decision. [[Constitution, Article 30]] Today we try to pass this on to the future of the law. And the commission is the subordinate body of the Supreme Council, and there are no such functions in the Supreme Council. And what many of my colleagues, my friends, signed this bill doesn't bother me, someone didn't read it, someone didn't read it. As in that discussion, you may recall when the chief signed an order without reading the document about his release. So let's read the papers. I think the draft decision I made is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u134	That's a good reminder. Even better, the army says: “The battalion commander wrote to the platoon commanders on the plan of training, that the convoy will be killed in these exercises.” And the truck signed the schedule. Yes, please, 15 minutes. Please Puzakov, the Communist faction. Behind him is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u135	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council exercises parliamentary control over the constitutional rights, freedoms and duties of citizens, and respect for the laws and other acts it adopts. Today, parliamentary control is essentially carried out in part. The specially created control institutes of Parliament -- the Human Rights Commissioner, the Chambers of Auditors -- often run into misunderstandings, or even open opposition from executive authorities. There's only one thing I want to do. I am a member of the Communist Party faction, which is constantly in opposition and at the time of the start of the pre-election campaign, restrictions are being made on the activities of the opposition and, in particular, on parliament, which is seen not as a political opponent, but as a political enemy. The rights of the opposition are constantly being violated, and its shares are being blocked. However, the pro-President factions and groups representing powerful financial and political structures live damply, use both public and private electronic media, and the opposition does not have access. So why is that? And that is exactly what should be followed by the temporary commissions of the Supreme Council. During the election campaign, the Supreme Council should be the guarantor of the democratic process of parliamentary elections. Control issues are the most important and at the same time the least legislatively regulated. Legal regulation, the exercise of parliamentary control continues to be fragmented and requires immediate improvement. Today calls for more effective parliamentary control. But, as life shows, turning parliament into a controlled body is the last bastion of democracy in Ukraine. In order to do so, it is necessary to amend the Constitution, which gives the Committees of the Supreme Council the right to exercise control over the implementation of the central and local executive bodies of the Constitution and laws in the relevant spheres. The bill can be adopted in the first reading and elaborated, as it allows for a number of serious inaccuracies that may hinder clear and unambiguous application of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u136	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Prepare Solomon Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u137	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We understand that today's bill, which has been tabled to Parliament, and the purpose of this bill is to regulate the powers of the Supreme Council as defined in articles 89, 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the creation of temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know that we are hostages, and for more than a year now, the Supreme Council, we national deputies, when we are simply being accused of, "Well, what do you do there, and why aren't they being enforced?" And so, let's say yes, executive authority in places. On this point, they're shifting the arrows on us, on the people's deputies, which, you see, is the Supreme Council's fault that these laws are not being implemented, not us. And many examples from. I will not go far, as they say, by example. In the Chernobyl area. These are the meetings that were held both in the Klmeneck district and in the Krasnoylsk Stóżenecki region, and other, other settlements where people just stand, say, “Look at the way things are done! ” [[Bernovo]] And we're being blamed. Thus, the commission’s investigators, who had been formed by the Supreme Council until now, had not established their legal basis. And normally, here's the commission that led me and the national deputy Gabrieluk as co-chairs, investigating the abuse of grain and bread in Ukraine, we had a lot of material stored up to let the whole of Ukraine know why the price went down. But to whom could we inform? How could we report it if we didn't have the right conditions for it. For work is effective. And so there is no doubt that the many creations of these committees have virtually no effect. And that's why Parliament is a hostage of a situation where we can't control where laws are being enforced. And that's why the heads of district administrations and some district administrations just wave their hand when they see that, for example, Ukraine's law is not being implemented. Commissions can strengthen the enforcement of laws in Ukraine. And so the faction of the Socialist Party will vote to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u138	Mikhail Vasilovich, I don't think they'll be waving their hands since January 1st. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Sergey Zizko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u139	Thank you. Head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Beresovski-Jushchenko. Dear colleagues, if 21 million dollars had disappeared in any state without a trace, that would have been the basis for a criminal case. The question is rhetorical: The interim commission of inquiry in the protocol of October 6, the joint protocol with Mr. Berezowski, noted that such money was being sent to Ukraine from two Latvian banks, but it was in Ukraine that the traces disappeared. That's why our commission officially asked the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the border, the State Committee on Financial Monitoring to provide us with legal support and assistance in finding traces of this money in Ukraine, who were recipients of this money, and how this money was used. And we've already received the first answers from these important institutions. From the Attorney-General's Office, Mr. Medvedzko, who is currently being proposed for the post of Attorney-General, is responsible for: “I report that the reasons for the investigation by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine concerning the illegal involvement of Berezovski Boris Abramovich in financing the election campaign of the President of Ukraine in 2004 are not seen.” Thank you, of course, Mr. Bear. Next. The Ukrainian Security Service reports that the investigation of offences in the area of electoral law enforcement has been referred to the exclusive competence of the prosecution’s investigators. We're going back to Mr. Bear. At the same time, we report that the execution of the request for a deputy head of the service as a permanent representative at the Interim Commission of Inquiry for the organization of the interaction is possible only after the legislative determination of the powers, organizations and procedures of the interim commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, Your Honor, these are the important structures that should provide all the help to the Supreme Council in the form of a temporary commission of inquiry, have sent us where? It's a known address. So without the law that's being proposed, despite all the shortcomings that our lawyers have been looking for there, I personally think I'm asking you to adopt this law in the first reading as a basis, because any committee, however much we don't create, and even if we have 5 or 6 more proposals on this subject, will be exposed to the absence of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u140	Yes, Sergey Zizko. Something I can't see. Yes, please, Sergey Sass is the same, in charge. Vladimir Cherniak at your disposal, Alexander Tkalenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u141	Alexander Tkalenko. A faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Of course, the Law on Temporary Investigations Special Commissions is extremely relevant, and we, I think, have to accept it, but it also has flaws, particularly those that Vasil Onopenko was talking about. I mean, the rights of those committees must certainly be regulated and brought into line, to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to talk about other flaws. Inadequacies about the formation of these committees. Today, according to the Rules, temporary investigators of special commissions are formed in such a way that they are composed of representatives of all factions. So if a faction wants to puzzle a question, it's just a representative who doesn't give it and there's some kind of legal conflict. Next. This bill provides for the election of the head of the commission by the Supreme Council, and the deputy head of the commission, the secretary of the meeting, the organizational meeting of the commission of inquiry. At which point the right of priority has fractions that are in the minority. I absolutely don't forgive this position, but I think on the second reading we have to take these nuances into account and make them more transparent. In general, the faction of the National Movement of Ukraine will support this bill in the first reading with further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u142	Yes, thank you. All those who wanted to speak took this opportunity to vote. In accordance with the Rules, I am the first to put to the vote the proposal of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council, registration number 6450/P1 in relation to the violation of articles 89 and 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine. We're voting for inadmissibility. [[12:50:41]] For-44 It's not an unacceptable decision. I am betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 6450. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:51:13]] For 197 By factions, please: communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 39, National Party - 4, "Our Ukraine" - 21, Block Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 0, Social Democrats - 0, trust of the people - 4, "Reforms and Order" - 1, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 13, "One Ukraine" -5, non-fractional - 5. Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[12:52:04]] For 224 Work, dear fellows. Work. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7613, is being complied with. [[new editor]] Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u143	Viacheslav Koval, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The need to adopt amendments to the current Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee Act does not call into question anyone who uses this legislative act. Its legal standards are outdated and do not fully comply with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and require systematization for convenience of use. In the context of the transition of Ukrainian society to a proportional electoral system to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the corresponding increase in the impact of the political component on Parliament's work, it is particularly important to ensure the proper level of work of committees as constitutionally defined bodies of Parliament. In addition, in the context of constitutional reform, which will result in an increase in Parliament's weight on the President-Parliament's power axis. Parliament itself is more focused on objectifying government and executive evaluations. And in this matter, the key role should be the profile committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The practice of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4 as the source of the rules has also demonstrated the need for a clearer legal regulation of the committees’ activities in position and the organization of their work and the determination of rights, obligations in legislative organizational control activities. In connection with the above, the members of the Rules Committee, the parliamentary ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the Chief Legal Organization and Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Institute of Legislation and the UN Programme, a draft of the Ukrainian Law “On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” has been prepared. [[in a new edition]] The committee sent this project to all committees of the parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council, to the Chief of the Apparatus with an offer, to make their proposals to the draft law. It should be noted that all 12 committees that made comments and proposals to the draft law gave him general approval. And at the same time, these proposals allowed me to improve the text of the law. A total of 263 suggestions and comments were made to the committee, the vast majority of which are taken into account by the committee. The draft law will also be worked out by the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Following the introduction of the draft law to the committee, it came to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which made comments on the structure of the draft law and its individual conceptual positions. The members of the committee submitted a draft law on the results of the work, submitted a draft law in exchange. This bill is based on a project prepared by committee members and takes into account the positive work of the structural units of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council (in a new edition) is to implement the legal rules of the law in force in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, to define the rights, responsibilities of the committees in their legislative, organisational and control activities. Unlike the current law proposed by members of the drafting committee, the draft law has a clear structure, consisting of 7 chapters, whose legal standards are grouped into chapters and given a separate article, each of which has a name that greatly facilitates the use of the law. It should be noted that for the first time, the legal term “the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, its legal status, the more fully regulated order for the creation, liquidation, reorganization of committees, the delimitation of their publications are defined by the functions and mandates of the committees. Much attention has been given to the mandate of the committee to prepare for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's consideration of the issues that the Constitution of Ukraine refers to parliamentary powers. Controls of committees are defined. The draft law makes more clear the legal rules governing the organization of committee work. For example. Our committee, according to the subject of its knowledge of the appeals made by the National Deputies, has repeatedly dealt with the legitimacy of some committees’ meetings. It means holding meetings without proper quorum according to the statements of the Ukrainian national deputies. Article 46 of the draft law lays down requirements for the submission of applications by members of the Committees who are absent without valid reasons for meeting the Committee and for the procedure for examining such applications. The efficiency of committee work also depends directly on the quality of committee planning. Article 40 regulates the legal requirements for committee planning. According to members of the Committees, the adoption of the law in the new edition will contribute to the improvement of the constitutional law in the process of state-building in Ukraine, and increasing the effectiveness of the committees' activities on legal principles will accelerate the positive socio-economic transformations in the country. Please support the bill in the first reading with appropriate changes and then in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u144	Thank you. You want a question. Well, three minutes, please sign in. Yes, please. Samuel Catherine. Communist faction, Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u145	Dear colleague, you think that really what we're going to see in this visiting law, the legitimacy of holding a committee, that it's really going to have some effect. We have the same people, I'm the third vocation working on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and two vocations on the Youth Committee. And it's like the stars in the heavens of our state, but the constant committee meeting, the committee meeting, they don't visit it. Moreover, I even made my own decision about the prize and so forth. But to smell all things upon them, they came, that there might be a roof for them in the Supreme Council. And that's why it seems to me that in the bill, well, as you do, it seems to me that I should accept, if you'll excuse me, more repressive measures regarding those who came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to work, but simply to sit back and have a roof over their heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u146	Thank you for asking. Dear Mrs. Catherine, I agree with you, with your assessment of what's going on, I agree. But as we move on to an extremely proportional election system with which the next Supreme Council of Ukraine will be formed, this part of the definition of those people who will enter the Supreme Council of Ukraine will already belong to the parties. And so the parties will be responsible for their work, including the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for their visits. For example, I can give my example, my committee, we don't have that kind of problem. I don't know what the question is, aren't there any stars you're talking about? But we always have a quorum, and we never failed a committee meeting, so the adoption of this law needs more, why is it necessary? Because there's gonna be a procedure. We can all have our own personal problems and not be present on that committee, but a national MP can file a statement. Each committee considers this version of statements differently. So this bill, it's going to write a procedure that's going to better organize committee work. It is not a panacea of what problems there are, but it will improve a little bit, including the legislative work of the committee, one or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u147	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u148	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions. The Honourable Viacheslav Stanislavovich, of course, needs all the approval of your bill and the legislative initiative itself. The bill of adoption is clearly because much of the work, the working time of the Ukrainian National MP, belongs to this obviously invisible work on the committees. I have a question for you. After accepting it as a basis for second reading, do you consider it appropriate: First. To amend the Rules so that the committee has the right to cut off bills, which then here in the session hall make laughter when they take four votes? Remember, we once had a bill that won two votes? I mean, don't you think it's appropriate for us to make changes to the Rules so that we can look at those bills that went through professional expertise in the session room? That's the first question. I fully support the thought and concern of Catherine Samuelk, a colleague who spoke of undisciplined Ukrainian national deputies. Unfortunately, especially in committees such as social policy, pensioners, or spirituality, and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u149	Dear Mr. Jaroslav, on the first question. Every Ukrainian national MP has the right to legislative initiative, the rule of the Constitution, and we cannot change the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the other hand, I don't rule out what might be a procedure that exists, for example, in the German Parliament, where 40 deputies seem to have to sign under a certain legislative act, a draft legislative act, and then it's under consideration by the Supreme Council. So maybe something needs to be predicted in the process of preparing for the second reading to make it impossible for you to do what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u150	And thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes. Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you to adopt this law because both the principles and the order of committee creation and the order of elimination of the powers that are foreseen are absolutely in line with the Constitution and the place in the society that the Ukrainian Parliament is holding. So I would like to publicly disagree with the findings of the Scientific and Expert Authority that the Committees of the Supreme Council are empowered to monitor compliance with and implement the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to the executive authorities and local self-government. Moreover, I am confident that if the Committee on Budget Affairs had met this requirement, which is in the law in force, then probably the government did not create that how many violations are allowed in the implementation of these laws, including the budget. When implemented, there are funds to build a castle in front of the President's Administration to destroy the road ahead of the President's Administration and build a club there. Where were the funds for this? They're gone, they're overdressed. So Parliament all over the world controls the government, controls the President, controls the judiciary through budget issues. So it's very right that we write this down, thank God. Next. We need to ensure that these decisions are implemented by the committees. And I believe that in this case, responsibility must be foreseen, including failure to meet the requirements of Parliament's committees as a higher legislative body. Next, I would like to make sure that we have written in this bill that the committee is responsible for studying all the bills and trying to systematize and codify them. You see what we're doing, the changes to the customs tariff one by one go, the changes to the value added law, the changes to other laws. And in fact, we're making a grid, we're patching up, when we get there, a legislative field. So I think we need to be completely different about this and give the committees more autonomy here. In general, I will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. And I'd like us to step up the demands of the committees and their rights, but more often, we've heard them, including reports here, from the Supreme Council's rostrum. It should be predicted that six months from now, each committee head should report to everyone who knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u152	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, behind him is Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u153	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill presented in the first reading. Of course, it must be worked out and there is no doubt about it. I'd like to point out that I'm in charge of this call, this is already the second committee, this agrarian committee, where I work as a committee member, this is in the State Building Committee, and I want to say that the agrarian committee is working effectively and not because I'm certainly a committee member, but because this is the most powerful direction, we're going to talk about how the APC and the activities of the committee are aimed at adopting those bills and strengthening those laws that are adopted on the support of the agro-industrial complex. But, anyway, is it going to answer today's adoption of this bill, or is it going to be adopted in a second reading as a law. Will those recommendations that are being implemented by the Supreme Council’s own committees be effective? I'm just going to touch on the proposals made by the Agrarian Committee in relation to the 2006 budget position. And I would like to tell the radio audience again why the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine did not support or vote in favour of the 2006 budget proposals. The issue of the APC, which is 14 billion, remains fundamental to us. Basic to the faction is the support in the budget of the adopted Ukrainian Law for children of war, which is fundamental to us, is the local budgets, where today the race is about 10 billion. And if we leave that, when we adopt the budget, there might be a situation where we say that for six months local budgets will have to have funding, you have to think about where to get the money. And the basic thing for us is to finance education. As a result of these positions, the faction did not vote in favour of the budget committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u154	Yes, Anatoly Orzhachowski, please, the Communist faction. Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u155	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Respectable national MPs, respectable heads, voters. Finally, a bill was introduced to the Parliamentary Hall, which was to inhale a new life into the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I, like the faction of the Ukrainian Company, consider it possible to adopt this bill. This is our organizational regulation document. In most articles, it is well written. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has established and operates in the Supreme Council more than 20 parliamentary committees, a commission. Their efficiency, unfortunately, varies from one activity to another. That's how we have the opportunity to analyze it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over. We also understand that the main functions of the parliamentary committees are legislative, organizational, and supervisory. At this stage, I believe that responsibility needs to be strengthened with responsibility for those who lead the committees and those who work directly. I mean every national MP. After all, there are many problems with both appearances and other questions. In organizational terms, I think that responsibility should be the one that my colleagues, Dry and Samuel, said that if there are no deputies, it is not worth playing at, but it is worth taking responsibility for, either administrative or other. I find it appropriate today to write down in this bill the features of the committee's exit meetings, as well as to provide for action when the committee, the subcommittee, has been unable to gather for some time for no reason. Next. That's a very important question. If there is no committee head, who should call, hold meetings? It is said that today the deputy has become so. But they are usually ideologically different, and we face what sometimes prejudiced decisions are made. Next. With regard to voice transmission. It is wise, when the quorum is determined by the actual deputies rather than by the votes cast, to make a statement. Paragraph 4 suggests not to include the missing members of the committee when determining the quorum. In the next, only “for”, “against”, “retained”. The logic is here. However, the committee’s decision may be in three five votes, and the deputies may be in each committee 10, 15, 20, and so forth. What, then, is the efficiency, the quality of the documents that are proposed for submission to the session hall. So I also urge you to support this bill for second reading so that it can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u156	Basil Nadrag, please. And the next one is Onopenko Basil, you're on your way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u157	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, of course, this bill is of natural interest because it concerns a very important legislative element in the work of the MP. Because when an MP works on a committee, he's qualified, I'm not afraid of that word, he's doing his job. Why did I say I'm not afraid of that word? Because, unfortunately, a number of our colleagues on their committees can be searched even by a search engine. But I would like to take more than the responsibility of a deputy. Although I am deeply convinced that we must also think, speak and make appropriate decisions on this subject. Because so often in this room and in this life we hear about the rights of MPs, MP factions and everything else on this subject. Regrettably, it is not often that we hear of responsibilities and MPs and MPs for our activities. Let me give you a little example. I work for the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans. There are as many as 10 representatives. My dears, 10 out of 450 are dealing with social issues. It is clear that participation in the Committee on Budgets, in fuel and energy and in a number of other areas where, I beg your pardon, there is always more priority to be shared. And I think that the law should spell out, including a rule that would oblige the subject inside the parliamentary life, in this case speaking of the MP factions, to give representation to all committees. This is not normal when, once again, I emphasize that 9 out of 450 people are involved in the work of our committee, pensioners, disabled persons and veterans. And that, I think, is the problem. Based on this logic, I believe that the responsibility of those governmental institutions of local self-government and other bodies and organizations for late decision-making and response to requests, requests, requests and comments of the committees should be raised accordingly. Why? Because, unfortunately, I will again refer to the work of the Committee on Pensioners, Persons with Disabilities and Veterans, decisions that we have taken, which have dealt with a number of executive bodies, local self-government and so on, often remain good wishes. But we didn't ask anyone for any extra money, we didn't ask anybody for coal, metal and everything else, we asked people to pay attention to the disabled, the pensioners and the veterans. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania will support the bill. But we strongly believe that this bill, once adopted on first reading, must adopt mandatory elements that will increase the responsibility of factions and individual deputies for their activities, as well as other institutions and organizations, including the executive branch, to respond to the treatment and request of the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u158	Vasil Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u159	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I think it's an extremely important bill, and it allows for the most difficult job in the future, the biggest job to be transferred to committee work. That's where the necessary work, the analysis of the drafts, the improvement is to be done here in the Supreme Council, and we're going to have to adopt fast, well-balanced, well-thought-out laws. But, my fellow Members, I don't think we can agree that committees in the future have the right to monitor compliance with and implement the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, as well as the control that is appropriate for executive authorities and local self-government. If you analyze the Constitution and the authority of the Supreme Council, you don't have the authority of the Supreme Council. Tell me, can the legislative body delegate a proper function to its subordinated body — committees in particular? What she doesn't have. I don't think that's going to fit the Constitution. But this can be improved in rereading. We also need to consider what recommendations the committees have the right to issue. Because it may be that of the 20 committees or more, recommendations will be made, and one recommendation from one committee would be contrary to another, or perhaps ten recommendations and clarifications. So I think we should think about that too. In general, it would be nice for the committees to take a closer look at the bills that are being prepared for the second reading, because, let's say, today we have about 15 laws on judicial matters in the Committee of Legal Policy, about 18 laws on the status of judges. The question is, How can they be systematized? How can one be made perfect when the authors of the legislative initiative refuse to do so? So I think that in preparing for the second reading, the committee should analyze this work and make appropriate suggestions. This will enable us to save time and more perfectly at a more professional level to adopt appropriate laws. Thank you for your attention. And the faction's proposal is to support the first reading and we'll work it out on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u160	And that's the right offer, because that's the same proposal the profile committee is making. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 7613. That's what directly applies to the organization of our work. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:19:05]] For 319 Thank you for understanding. There is a question of the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Honorary Literacy and the Gramatoma of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 6543. Reported to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Viacheslav Stanislavovich Koval. Please, this is already a reduced procedure. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Rules, MPs and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council prepared for your consideration a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On Honorary Literacy and the Gramatomat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", aimed at enhancing the status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and improving the order of awards by virtue of the Honourable Literacy and Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project proposes to amend the current decision "On Honorary Literacy and the Gramat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine", adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 5, 2001, No. 2541. You are also invited to consider the project of Ukraine's new position on Honorary Literacy and the Gramatoma of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These changes relate to the proliferation of entities that may be rewarded with the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, they can be rewarded by the marks of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by working groups of enterprises, institutions, and organizations. In addition, the list of criteria for the award of marks by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been greatly expanded. It is proposed that a significant contribution be paid to any sphere of activity of the State, a significant social and political activity, a credit to the Ukrainian people, a strengthening of Ukraine as a democratic, social, legal state; action to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens; the development of democracy, parliamentaryism, civil strife in society; the strengthening of economic, scientific and industrial potential in Ukraine. It should be noted that with the introduction of the proposed changes, the procedure for the consideration of candidates for the award of the Honourable Literacy and Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being improved, namely: a collegiate consideration of the awarding of the awards by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of nominations to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The award issue will be considered by the awards commission with Honorary Literacy and the Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will act if the draft decision is adopted on the basis of the Order on the Award Commission with Honorary Literacy and the Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to this position, the commission is made up of the heads of the commission, the secretariat, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of the Rules, the parliamentary ethics, the Heads of the Committee on Legal Policy, the Heads of the Committee on State Building, the Head of the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council, the Head of the General Organizing Authority. It will be more legal to replace the words “countries of other states” with “foreigners”. That is, the country's distinguished national deputies, according to the committee, will not contribute to the promotion of the status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the further development of the states.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u162	Please sit down, Vjacheslav Stanislavovich. We're in for a shortcut, Your Honor. We're in for a procedure. And we'll discuss it if we have to. But I'd like to ask you very briefly, dear colleagues. Yeah, right now. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. It's a shortcut there was no question procedure here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u163	The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u164	It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u165	I am addressing all of our deputies, the radio listeners, that, in fact, in Soviet times, the Honourable Literacy and the Gramot of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was important and people who or groups who received knew that their work, their efforts to live better and to build a country of the Soviet-Ukraine, were “encouraged” and rewarded with such literature. And I know a lot of people who talk about it, that it is necessary for the Supreme Council of today's composition to have such an honorary degree that it would be primarily the honorary people working in our Ukraine today. But the reward process itself, unfortunately, does not reflect the mechanism that should be with rewards. And the faction of Communists supports the amendment to the Supreme Council's decree on Honorary Literacy and the Gramat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where most specifically and clearly define the order of irregular concern and submission of awards. The creation of a Commission on Rewards, and the main thing is to conduct a procedure for giving Gramot to the Supreme Council, which should be for either people or for the collective a significant event of use. Thus, the Communist faction considers that the decision should be accepted in general and with changes. But we're talking today about the prizes of the Supreme Council, but we need to know and be clear about the events that are taking place in our Ukraine, because many of the national deputies are also rewarded with the letter of Honor or with the Gramot of the Supreme Council. But when we work in places, we are asked what you have done to ensure that there are no situations of conflict that arise all the time. That week we had work in the districts and I worked in Chercas and, really, people are asking questions that are still pressing constitutional rights in Chercas. This is the construction of fillings on the street of Engels, the Sumgailian, and today there's a new object on the street of the Sumgailian and the 30th anniversary of Victory. I'll make a request from that question tomorrow. Also today, I am being approached by the employees of the Cherkas Hemvolocne in connection with the planned reduction of two productions and the reduction of more than a thousand people. The president of Ukraine is talking about creating jobs, and we're in Cherkas, and we're going to cut down on the very famous Cherkashimwokno business itself. For this reason, I would like to ask you, with my partner, Omelan Nikonovich, Bondarczuk, at the request of our workers in this factory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u166	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please turn it on. Prepare Yuri Salamathin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u167	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that this question shouldn't look like a line, that is, it's a big prize, it should be compared to a state reward, because I really support my colleagues when they say it's not an event -- a reward. So we don't see any rewards that are actually celebrated in a group that are actually celebrated among individuals. That's the first one. The other one. I think we need to do everything that our faction supports and will vote in favour of this law, and we need to think first of all about what criteria are. In fact, we can write the criteria if it's new for the collectives, or for the individual person who works in manufacturing or in agriculture or in some areas of the economy. So there you can count his winning work, his winnings, and so forth, all of that. And if this is about civil servants, or if it's about government officials, it's about MPs, let's say. After all, MPs are also often rewarded with this supreme letter of credit. What can be a criterion? The number of speeches, the number of bills written, the number of bills passed and they were adopted by the Supreme Council, or other officials. So there are some criteria that are blurry. And I think that if we vote, and this is what the first reading might be, then we have to work out the very topic of the criteria so that we don't have to raise the questions that have just been said in the previous speech. What, though, can be done, and what are the winning gains? Indeed, this national reward should be underestimated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u168	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u169	Yuri Solomatin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you my little impressions of the mechanism of consideration and decision-making on the committees on presenting the award-winning letter or honorary letter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As the highest in the nation of the legislative body of others, we have no reward. These are the only two: litigation and honor. When we received the information, at our request, the Chief Organizing Authority gave it to us, because in a year people are rewarded with literacy and honorary literacy, as is happening in committee cuts, I was impressed by the fact that there are certain committees that literally print the word. And it makes this impression that anyone who can get some kind of information about what they can get, and if they have a member of parliament that they know, they're definitely going to get into the process. And according to the formal criteria that exist today, it will pass through this circle and will receive the proper reward, the determination on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I support the proposal to set up a reward commission with a focus on it. Let the committees do this, and the committees will make appropriate recommendations. But in the Council there must be a reward commission over all the committees that will act on the basis of a balanced position and the requirements that are generally rewarded with state signs. And last of all, maybe before that. I would consider it appropriate to foresee a limit to the number of awards awarded by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't know how many of them have to be -- 100, 200, 300, 500 or 1000, but a certain limit, along with certain criteria, was a certain warning on the path of reward, forgive me for such words, and candidatures, which are not very likely even worthy. And the last. The reward always provides for certain social benefits and compensation. Not everyone knows that something in this regard goes both for the community and for the honor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'd like us to sort this out more thoroughly and more representatively for our Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u170	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Nightshade.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u171	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, we are considering today the issue of honour, the literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to point out that, to date, the credentials and credentials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should indeed be raised as status to the appropriate level. After all, we have today an honorary letter and a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers. You see, it rewards her, sometimes such an impression that she gives a man a prize that goes beyond all the mental and unthinkable orders and medals in our country. If you look at the situation, how do ministries and departments have their rewards? We have local self-government with rewards. And most amazingly, the less the person who makes the award, the more fun, the more important, the more often the richer the reward. The question is, What is the prize of the Supreme Council? The Supreme Council is the supreme organ of the representative power. Accordingly, the status of this prize must be duly respected and the procedure should be followed, and people should understand that, when receiving the Honorary Letter or the Gramate of the Supreme Council, a person receives a mark of distinction that shows that he has done something that has been evaluated throughout the State. Therefore, based on this logic, it is absolutely right to consider that we must expand the range of citizens and organizations that are rewarded for the reasons for which they are rewarded. There should be an ad hoc commission to review proposals and comments accordingly. But once again, I would like to address the executive branch, in this case. We must, on the one hand, address the systematization of the prizes that exist in our State and see how fair and objective the awards of ministries and agencies are being made. For there are not only rewards for those who know carefully, but for those who know that there are also very expensive watches, which are so-called memorials, addresses, rewards, whatever kind and mass of all things, including flesh before weapons. In view of this, it is thought that, with regard to the Honourable Literacy, we should be clear about the Gramat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine — a reward that should actually be dear to both man and society. And based on that logic, we must support this decision. In any case, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u172	Yeah, we've got it, so we don't have a black guy. Please, Nightmare. And invite the national deputies to the session room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u173	Mikola Nightshank, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Litvina People's Block. Of course, these rewards should take their place in a list of government awards and do good glory, in the honor of a man of work, who is respected by all society. And today, the fact that literacy and honorary literacy are given solemnly, personally, by the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you do well to make time, remains a good reminder for the teaching of the growing generation. But a few critical comments and suggestions that need to be taken into account when working on the second reading. First of all, if you take it and examine it in detail, the language is that the Honourable Literacy and the Gramat of the Supreme Red will only be given to you at your place of work. What about those who no longer work or retirees? I think it needs to be rectified and determined: who's still taking care of the pensioners for their community service. The second, somewhat organized in the very position of literacy between submission and difficulty, is incompatible with paragraphs 5 and 6. The sixth paragraph says that the National Deputies are filing a committee, a parliamentary faction. And in the fifth paragraph, these submissions, the problems are being considered by the same factions and the committees may be. The next, somewhat narrowed down, is the tightening of the powers of the executive superiors. To this day, the Ministry can reward only employees of ministries and departments. And what about hundreds of thousands of employees of subordinate departments, institutions, institutions. Yes, they can be submitted through the decisions of the local sessions of the national deputies. But nothing will hurt each other if we write out the options. And we also need to think about paragraph 16, where it's about the award-winning people who are invited to Kiev. What are they going to do? What's the status? And will this be considered a mission? I propose to adopt the draft decrees in the first reading and to allow the national MP to work out, according to current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u174	Dear national MPs, all of them. Where is Sergey Ivanovich? One minute, turn on the microphone. I'm just looking here, by the way, I'm sorry. Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich. And the people's deputies, please come into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u175	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this bill must be adopted in the first reading, and all decisions must be made by committees in the relevant field. And now I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Samylik, to Catherine Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u176	Samuel Catherine's Symphony.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u177	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and distinguished colleagues! I want to point out that this is the only reward that can be won and those who are in power and opposition. Because sometimes opponents are really Ukrainian citizens. And by fighting for justice, they will benefit more than those who steal, those who are in power. And so, I'd still be in the first reading to accept, but not to organize what we want to do, a very bureaucratic procedure where a normal person, a normal citizen of Ukraine, will never have this reward. I'm just talking to everybody, think!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A proposal is put to the vote for a committee on adoption on the basis of a draft regulation amending the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Honorary Literacy and the Grammar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 4563. Please vote. [[13:40:07]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it says here, in the conclusions of the committee, were to be accepted in general. Who denies it? Is there a denial? Everything, there's a denial, so we take it off. I'd like the committee to work on it and bring it up to speed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 7602. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u179	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Bill 7602, prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies for the purpose of harmonising Ukrainian legislation to international and European requirements, is also in line with the Ukrainian law on the quality and safety of food and food. First of all, it takes more account of the requirements of the International Epizootic Bureau’s Health Code, the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures. Thus, the draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act contains 16 reviews, 109 articles, 11 chapters, and 40 articles in the current law. It includes new chapters: the principles of the development, adoption and application of animal health measures, including risk analysis and management, protection, health and animal quarantine, the regulation of animal circulation and goods under the control of the State Veterinary Service, the regulation of the production and circulation of veterinary products, feed, international trade, etc. Involvement in the bill is more detailed and transparent. international legislation will contribute to the revitalization of international trade. At the same time, it should be noted that the bill fully meets international and European requirements and has fully integrated the terms of the land animal health code of the MEP. The bill proposes 117 terms and concepts against 46 in the law in force. These include basic international terms, which means those listed in the health code of ground animals of the MEP, namely: veterinary administration, state veterinary health service, veterinary measures, etc. An additional article deals with important issues and harmonizes the proposed bill with international requirements. These are articles such as 21, 22, 45, 47, 54, 55, 65, 66, and 88. It should also be noted that in the bill submitted by the national parliaments, most articles are greatly expanded, state service, veterinary medicine, and tasks, as provided for by international legislation. This will help to avoid double legal treatment of the content of the Law, which in turn will facilitate the development of regulations on veterinary medicine. In view of the above, we believe that the draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act, which we have proposed, is most harmonised with international requirements, including the European Union. It will also allow for the further maintenance of a stable incident situation and ensure that goods are imported and exported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u180	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please, the names of the national deputies who are registered, please show. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin invites us to prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that my father, who was a veterinarian, did not live to adopt this Law, and he kept saying, “Why don’t you make a comprehensive bill?” So what I'm saying is that this complex bill is before us today. It seems to me that it is a comprehensive bill introduced by the people's deputies Claudia, Melniczuk, Bartsziv, Borzih, Pulkowski and Tereshuk. I just want to thank that this bill, really, can be called a bill and it foresees all the cases, including that the obligation for legal, for natural persons to comply with the requirements of state inspectors of veterinary medicine, to report on the sudden loss of animals as a result of disease. And, I think that if it works fully, this bill, and I'm going to ask you to prepare it as quickly as possible for consideration and acceptance in the second reading, we're not going to be intimidated by the chicken flu by simply lobbying animals from abroad. Actually, that's what they're doing right now. I think that that understandable apparatus, the definition of basic terms, although there are observations in the Scientific and Experimental Authority are certain, but a very serious comprehensible apparatus and I will ask you to adopt this law in the first reading and the very fact that today this serious, fundamental bill has 109 articles, it deserves respect. Not because of quantity, but because of their quality, I repeat. But what worries me is that we write in the final positions that it takes effect from the day it was published. It's confusing because there's going to be a budget coming and spending there, so we need to ask the budget committee now, and ask the government to anticipate funding, because if it's not foreseen, we're not going to have these conclusions, unfortunately, we're not going to be able to put it into effect so quickly, so I would ask that, given what's foreseen here and all the restrictions on imports of different products, I hope that it will be limited and imported by the Bushes, which they are now insisting that they enter into us and that mutant products, because otherwise they cannot be called what is being produced there now to protect the safety, health of our Ukrainian people. That's why I'm behind the adoption of this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u182	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u183	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. I'm already, if I'm right, it's not the first time we're looking at this bill. And sometimes all the time, we don't have enough votes to be able to accept it. In fact, both the national MP Carmazin and the colleagues who reported on this law were clearly identified. And the Veterinary Medicine Act is practically in operation in all European states. We can't just leave this important law to us and it's important to society. Because they threw up, they say, a bird flu. Who will fight? How do we determine how to do this? On what grounds? What is foreseen in the State budget for these purposes, others for veterinary purposes? You know, there used to be a really powerful network of veterinary workers. And we knew that there was a colporteur, there were a few doctors, we could go to them. Today, practically in a rural area where there is no more farming, and where there is a tenant or a farmer, it is certain that he will not support veterinary workers. What did we leave behind? We say that we have a powerful rural sector, that if we don't have tens of millions of cows in the farms, it's already happened in the individual sector. How is it served? Who will take this responsibility? What's going on, anyway? I ask you not to interrupt, I never interrupt anyone. What if you're taking a network of veterinary workers, how do they work? What do we do when we talk about imported junk food from abroad? Who is to blame? Have our veterinary medicine been given great authority on this matter? No, it's not. Let us, dear friends, not say that this is a bill of some kind concerning the WTO, support and vote on our veterinary medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u184	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please. To prepare Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u185	Fucking Communist faction. Ukraine's Amendment Act on Veterinary Medicine has been drafted to introduce Ukrainian legislation in the field of sanitary, veterinary and photo-medical regulation under the WTO Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. The Communist faction cannot support the prescribed law with such motives. First. This bill allows foreigners and stateless persons to engage in veterinary practices in Ukraine. It's different. State veterinary authorities may be privatized. Third. This law authorizes the importation into Ukraine of exotic animals. Four. A veterinary police unit is being set up to conduct quarantine veterinary procedures, another force force. And I'm going to tell you that we've been here repeatedly and we've been in this rostrum and we've been talking to the boards of the Supreme Council, because this race after the entrance to the WTO by December shows, and today we've received a letter from the Lord of Russia that the Russians are warning us that this race is going to put us first on an abnormal relationship with Russia, and most of all, it's going to put our domestic producer on hold. Dear comrades! Avian influenza is already in Canada. The President must immediately sign the law passed by the Communist, the deputy Leschchenk, and adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole (for a temporary prohibition of six months of entry into Ukraine of birds and meat products from birds). But, you see, it's not signed. It's back in agreement with those foreign “friends ” of our Ukraine. I was recently, literally, three days ago in the village. The Great Storm of the Black Sea region of the Cherka region, where the state tribal plant was operating in the Soviet times, was known throughout the Soviet Union. But today, after the so - called acceptance of the shareholders living in this village, the simple workers, they just cry about what is going on today. And they asked me to make a request. I'll make a request, but, dear fellows, by adopting this law on veterinary medicine, let's think about where does today's government and the president lead us? To Europe to SOT? What good will a simple worker do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u186	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party. Then we'll have the opportunity to speak in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u187	Thank you. Kalinchuk, Odeshina, faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today's law is in force, and I would like to remind the National Deputies, “For veterinary medicine”, which has been adopted for more than 13 years. Of course, there have been significant changes during this period, both in the current legislation under which our nation lives and in international legislation. With a view to bringing Ukraine's legislation in the field of sanitary, veterinary and phytosanitary regulation to the requirements of international standards on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures and the draft bill, the bill is intended to be drafted in a completely new way, as it has been in operation since the beginning of 1992. It is very important, in our view, that the bill provides for the responsibility of legal and physical persons involved in the maintenance and circulation of animals to comply with the requirements of the State inspectors of veterinary medicine and of authorized veterinary doctors. What's important? Inform immediately. We cherish birds, bird flu, and so forth, and we should immediately inform about the sudden death of animals and birds as a result of a disease that is to be reported to be authorised by the State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine to move animals. This is also very relevant, especially in today’s period. Protect the animal’s health and well - being The bill also provides for the regulation of animal circulation and reproductive material, the regulation of the production and circulation of animal food products, and the scientific provision of veterinary medicine. The bill provides and specifies the requirements for the production of animal feed as appropriate. and the responsibility of persons for infringements in veterinary medicine. And this is also very important today. And one more thing. The bill also provides for international cooperation in veterinary medicine and provides for the standards provided for this cooperation. It is also, in our view, very important in our faction. It is also positive that the adoption of the bill will help bring Ukrainian legislation into line with international standards and increase exports – this is what I would like to highlight – agricultural products. The faction of the People's Party of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Block will support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-01-m0.u188	Please, Sergei Sass microphone. Is there a Sergei Sas? I won't. Vladimir Cherniak. None. Vitaly Shibko. It won't. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, invite the national deputies to the session room. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we take the project as a basis, and then work on the proposals that will come from the people's deputies. With this in mind, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Veterinary Medicine Act. [[new editor]] Registration number 7602. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:57:31]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction - 1, the Ukrainian People's Party - 45, the People's Party - 44, Our Ukraine - 7, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPU - 23, the Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 18, “Trust of the People” - 6, “Reforms and Order” - 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, National Movement of Ukraine - 1, “One Ukraine” - 8, “Afterfractional” - 10. This is an interesting situation, fellow colleagues: last night, the President of Ukraine was so friendlyly assured, the Presidential factions especially that they will uphold the WTO laws, and now other factions will have to pull it out. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
