ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:06]] There were 411 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies, yesterday, June 22, following a permanent grave illness of 47 years, our colleague, the Ukrainian National MP, died two appeals, a member of the Faction of the SDPU(o), a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the matter of pensioners, veterans and invalids of Igor Aleksandrovich Plujnnikov. Please honor the memory of the national deputy, Igor Alexandrovich Plunznikov, of Ukraine, by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. The president of Ukraine also addressed us with a corresponding telegram. A telegram of that kind. "With pain in his heart he learned of the premature death of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Alexanderovich Plužnikov. A young, life - filled man came from us. This is a bitter and irreparable loss for all who knew Igor Aleksandrovitch Plužnikov." Dear colleagues, now information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on June 22, 2005. Eight issues of the agenda have been considered. Three laws were passed as a result of the review, one bill was adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was designed to be drafted, three bills were rejected, three were adopted. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian national deputies Andrey Mihajlovich and Feldman Alexander Borisovich to the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenka Vitali Fedorovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us good health and success in our work. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now we're going to have to figure out how to make a decision. I would ask that the Supreme Council be determined in connection with the decision of the Conciliating Council. I'm just going to give you some information. Yesterday we discussed the situation in connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the decision of the Lviv City Council to organize Polish military burials. The Conciliation Council offered to adopt the Supreme Council’s decree to annul our decision yesterday. So I'm going to put to the vote now on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's daily draft decision to abolish the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the organization of Polish military burials 18-19 years in the territory of the Historical Cultural Reserve of Lichakovsky Cemetery, 2796-PL of 22 June 2005. [[We agreed that without motive, we would consider this matter.]] [[Registration number 7708]] Please vote. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[10:07:35]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Yes. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 73, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 13, National Party - 29, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 11, Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, non-fractional - 10. Dear National Deputies! On June 21, 2005, the Central Election Commission registered Ruzicki Anton Matviyovich as Ukrainian national deputy elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory nationwide constituency from the political party block of Viktor Yuszczenk "Ukraine". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Matviyovich Ruzicki, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u2	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine: I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being, to uphold Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, to carry out my duties in the interests of all its fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Anton Matviyovich and welcome our work together. The question of the permanent suspension of the authority of Ukraine’s national deputy Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov is under review. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement was made to the Supreme Council on June 21, this year by the Ukrainian national deputy Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich about the permanent composition of his parliamentary powers. As we know, the President's decree of April 1st of this year was appointed the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority. According to the requirements of part one of article five of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, our committee, i.e. the Rules Committee, is introducing for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft decree on the early termination of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Yehanurov Yury Ivanovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u5	Introducing a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. Registration number 7707. Please vote. [[10:11:23]] For 327 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u7	The issue of the election of individual Ukrainian national deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee yesterday discussed the statement made by the National Deputy of Leap Kseniya Mikhailna to reconsider her election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. You remember that last Thursday this statement was not supported by most national deputies. Taking into account that Leapina has asked again to consider this issue and her desire to work on this committee, our committee has adopted, decided to support its application and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the draft decision on the election of Ukraine's national deputy, Leapina, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lápina, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on industrial policy and entrepreneurship is being put to the vote. Registration number 7514. Please vote. [[10:13:17]] For 252 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, in order to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of yesterday also reviewed the application made by National Deputy Dzona Valentin Mihajlovich, a non-fractional member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. Taking into account our colleague's repeated appeal and his desire to work on the above-mentioned committee, the Rules Committee decided to support the statement made by the National Deputy of Djon and recommend to the Supreme Council to return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Dson as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy is put to the vote. Registration number 7590. Please vote. [[10:14:51]] For 219 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it. Who wants to go back to the draft decree, registration number 7590? Please vote. [[10:15:18]] For 234 We're back. I would like to vote on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree on the election of Ukraine's National Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, registration number 7590. Please vote. [[10:15:48]] For 248 Decision taken. Let's move on to second reading. Three minutes, sign up. Because right now, if we just don't have a record, it's going to be forever. Vladimir Stretovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u13	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u14	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I handed you a letter from the faction also on the election of committee members, similar questions to those already considered, this is a decree of 7589 on the election of Anatoly Ivanovich Korczynski to the Regulatory Committee, and Vladimir Petrovich Pak. [[Decree 7668]] They were considered, they were voting. So the situation is exactly the same as the previous questions. The thing is, this coming Sunday, people in the Supreme Council don't have jobs, they don't have the opportunity to get fully involved. Moreover, they have questions even there with jobs and so forth. I don't think this is a political issue at all, and that's why I would ask your consent and the regulatory committee to ask these questions. And to my fellow MPs, I'm asking as kindly as I am now to support the election of these deputies to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u15	I ask the Head of the Committee to give immediate answers and suggestions to Boris Jakovič Bespalogo's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, with regard to the National Deputies of Lapin and Dzona, repeated statements were made to the Committee with the mandate of the Head, their repeated statements, with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for by the Rules to consider them at the meeting of the Committee. What the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council did yesterday. Well, these, called Bespaly’s colleague, were not repeated to the Committee. So if there are and will be a commission from the Supreme Council, the Committee will consider and identify and make proposals, specific proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u17	I'm asking my colleague Paka and Korczynski to write the relevant statements and I'll get them to the Committee immediately. We'll make a positive decision, I'm sure. Yes, the motives have already been recorded. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u18	Vladimir Mikhailovich, today we have such an order of the day that, even if we worked until 24 hours, we wouldn't be able to look at all the things we're offered today. So I wanted to ask you very much to move on to a review of the order of the day and work hard to do everything you've offered us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u19	Thank you. Comer, the "Regions" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u20	I ask you to give the floor to Deputy Sulkovsky, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u21	Paul Sulkowski, turn on the microphone, please. And invite the national deputies to the session room, and we'll be in in a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u22	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we really remind and speak language every day as accomplices. However, there is no movement in this regard today. This is the first time. Secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there's information, he's personally addressing me from a committee where he's already appointed a deputy. This is especially true of Basil Reddoni, who heads the Plains government. These days, he does not work daily but takes up his place in the office of the committee. And it doesn't give away the keys, it doesn't set him free, where the deputies, practically, get really tighter there, even two in the office. So I would ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to pay attention to this. And that's what we need to turn our heads on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u23	Find out what your relationship is. Ladies and gentlemen, I request an assignment. I'm asking you again. We signed up, we spoke. You go ahead and tell him, not me. You don't have to do this. Calm down, please. Please look into it and provide written information for the deputies. Honorable national MPs, in connection with what he sounded. The replicas? There's no reason to reply. I want to say again, there's no reason to say it. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we have a proposal here, there are so many bills that we need to consider and adopt. So I am voting in accordance with the Rules on a proposal that can only be accepted at the morning session, on the extension of our evening session for two hours, to 20 hours. Please vote. [[10:21:29]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 10, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 17, People's Party - 32, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 21, Ukrainian People's Party - 8, SDPU - 1, Democratic Ukraine - 0, "One Ukraine" - 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 8, Democratic Initiatives - 7, Postfraction - 10. Dear colleagues, you don't support the extension for an hour, and Mini Davos has given us a prescription to work and continue the session. How are we going to proceed with the session? That's enough, I've got it. A draft law on the organization and circulation of credit stories is announced for consideration. Registration number 4196, second reading. Please, let's work quickly, we'll make all the decisions. Please. The reporter is Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Right after the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I will not talk long about this law, you have read it, and I would like to point out that the bill has 58 proposals from the Ukrainian national deputies. There are no 10 of them. And according to the procedure of second reading, I propose to follow the amendments that have been rejected. Amendment number five.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u25	One minute, if the MP insists, we'll talk. Which of the deputies insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account. None. A second reading committee proposal, and generally as a law. And he's asking the National Bank to make that decision. I'm voting for acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support a very useful law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u27	In the second reading and in general as a bill, the draft Law on the Organization of the Forming and around of Credit History. Registration number 4196. The rule of law was unwarranted. Please vote. [[10:23:43]] For 331 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u29	A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pre-trial dispute resolution is being submitted for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Legal Policy Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko Shorty Vasil Vasil Vassilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! This is about amending the Code of Merchandise on Taxation of Business Income and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs. It provides for such an order that a claim must be made before a court appeal is made. You understand that this contradicts the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision on a particular case. So this bill came up, and I think it's normal -- the right of citizens or legal persons to apply directly to the court. We have considered proposals for second reading, and we believe that this law can be adopted both in second reading and in general. There are no principal positions like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the committee has taken into account all the proposals made by the national deputies. We therefore have every reason to vote on the adoption of the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on pre-trial dispute resolution. Registration number 4220. Please vote. [[10:25:32]] For 235 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, this was a project by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is being announced for consideration. [[on reducing financial pressure on consumers]] Reporter Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u32	Oleg Panasovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, it has been almost a month since you and I adopted the Kabmin Bill, registration number 5120, which aims to reduce the financial pressure on consumers by reducing the frequency of economic sanctions imposed on them for exceeding the contractual causes of energy consumption and for energy suppliers for under-supply of electricity, as well as the normatively streamlined responsibilities of the State Energy Inspectorate over energy consumption regimes. During this period, no comments were received from the bill's members, no additions were made. See the table of amendments. Decisions of yesterday's meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Safety, to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill of registration number 5120 on second reading and in general. I ask the People's Deputies to support the decision of the General Committee. To vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen! What? Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u35	That's not it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u36	That's not the law, Ivan Alexanderovich. John the Rabbit's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u37	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear reporter, you know that at the same time, on the same day, we passed another bill to support agricultural production and those who work as entrepreneurs in the country. And it suggested a slightly different norm, you're reducing sanctions by 2.5 times, and it suggested that for certain categories, it was for agricultural producers and entrepreneurs to cancel those sanctions in general. If we accept the second reading and, in general, the other bill, will it conflict with the bill? And what will be your position then in the vote? So we're going to make an exception from this general standard. I wish you'd supported that bill the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u38	It is a completely different law, it does not conflict, and it is adopted in first reading, and it is not yet ready for consideration in second reading. There is no connection between these two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote by the committee, which is also supported by the main legal authorities, to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on reducing financial pressure on consumers]] Registration number 5120. Please vote. [[10:29:18]] For 350. The law is passed. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians is being announced for consideration. [[on State guarantees]] Reporter: Head of Hennady Josipovich Udovenko Committee Is he Gennady Josephovich? Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Law on the Legal Status of Ukrainians. This bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s laws: publishing, information, and immigration. The amendments provide for the implementation of State guarantees to foreign Ukrainians in the information and publishing sector, the granting of permission and the creation of proper conditions for entry and residence in Ukraine outside the immigration quota for foreign Ukrainians, foreign couples, their children in the event of a joint entry and stay in Ukraine. At a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, which took place on April 13, this bill was adopted unanimously and the committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this bill in a second reading and as a whole as a law. In the conclusion of the General Legal Office, it is stated that the draft law can be adopted in a second reading as law and observations we make. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The white correction is only one and is included in the final edition. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill, it's aimed at. In the interests of the Ukrainian state, in the interests of Ukrainians abroad, and nothing here that can cause any objection or concern, we don't have any. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreign Ukrainians. [[on State guarantees]] Registration number 6036. Please vote. [[10:32:33]] For 296 The law is passed. The draft Law on the City of Sevastopol has been announced for consideration. Registration number 3187. The reporter is Vitaly Mikolaiovich Olujko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u42	Dear national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council and fellow citizens! The speciality of the city of Sevastopol is known to be the joint establishment of the Ukrainian Navy and the main base of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, which is temporarily located in the territory of the city. Therefore, the question of the status of the city of Sevastopol is strategic for our nation and is provided for in article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine. We should also remember that Sevastopol is home to our fellow citizens who have the right to local self - government to represent and protect their own interests in solving local problems on their own. In view of this issue, the adoption of the Law on the City of Sevastopol has been raised in this room a number of times. Many of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies and representatives of the government of Ukraine, including the national deputies of Zachosov, Yoffe, Bondarenko, Kondratevski, Yushchenko, Immortal, Catherinechuk, Greens, the governments of Desert Tent, Yanukovich and many other experts who tried to determine the special status of Sevastopol's hero city. Today, you are presented with draft law number 3187, authored by Sebastopol Victor Rabbit and John Vernidubov. The draft law we adopted on the first reading of May 19, this year. Thereafter, 32 amendments were made to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government. In addition to the authors, these are amendments made by the national deputies of Karmazin, Nadrag, Kuras, Ioffe, and Petrov. When they were working on the project, they were all right, and they were taken into account. In addition, all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration were taken into account. At present, its main positions are, firstly, the preservation of the existing system of the administrative and territorial system of the city of Sevastopol. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for a bill with observations. But as the work on the bill continued in close cooperation with this office, part of the comments were taken into account in the final edition. On June 8, at its meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, a revised bill was considered and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. 12 of the 16 members of the committee present voted in favour of this decision. On behalf of the committee, I would like to say that the proposed drafting of the bill was the result of serious compromises of state and local interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u43	Let me finish. Well, one minute, let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u44	The proposed drafting of the Law was the result of serious compromises of national and local interests, which were made possible by the active position of the drafters. People's deputies would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u45	Yes. Now, in front of the motives, we're going to sign up with the motives, as amended. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are included. But since this is an extremely important bill, let's exchange thoughts for reasons. Five minutes, please log in. Five minutes of motivation, please sign in. Sign up, please, don't raise your hand, just sign up. How come you won't sign up? Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u46	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, in fact, in Sevastopol a city, there is administrative reform. And the adoption of this Law, well, it'll just be too much and we'll have to wait. And I'm asking you to give the rest of the time to my colleague Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you very much to my colleague, the miner. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to ask you a serious question. That this Law is totally raw. Yesterday it was given to us, according to article 6.2. 14, 3.5.2. of the Rules we have a six-day deadline, after the bill is circulated among the MPs prepared for the second reading. And we didn't have the power, and now I've made proposals to this Law, because this Law is absolutely in conflict with both the Constitution and the Law on Local Self-Government and other Laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u48	I mean, about the proposals, the deadlines are up. It's time for their introduction. Please, Chickanov. Chicanov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u49	Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are once again looking at a painting that has lasted more than a year. In connection with the adoption of the Act on the Status of the City of Sevastopol, there is a constant desire to reject the bill because it is a hindrance to someone. However, the references to the fact that the Constitution is not in conformity are inconsistent with the Local Self-Government Act - they are not entirely true for the simple reason that this law, too, provides for the special status of the city of Sevastopol, and its adoption will greatly contribute to the development of the region and to the removal of the tension that exists today around the problems that exist in the city. I therefore call on all colleagues who today will consider this bill in the Chamber to support it. Since, by the way, the absolute majority of the proposals made are taken into account in the Committee's decision, in accordance with the Rules. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u50	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u51	Katerina Vaschuk, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear colleagues, the definition of the status of Sevastopol's hero city requires us to make the Constitution. It's a very separate article of the Constitution, whose anniversary we're going to celebrate in a few days, that provides for a separate law on the status of Sevastopol's hero city. In these years no government has been able to make a law worthy of adoption. People's deputies did. The committee's working. The People's Party faction made their proposals, they're accounted for. That's why we're proposing to vote yes. The faction of the People's Party will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u52	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u53	Very short. I ask you all of your colleagues to think about it, we do not comply with the Constitution without adopting this law until now. In fact, we ignore the right of the inhabitants of Sevastopol to choose their own city head. The rest of the time, I'm asking you to hand over the MP to Vernidub.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u54	Ivan Verni Dubov, please. Verni Dubov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u55	There's a microphone. Verni Dubov, Sevastopol. Dear comrades, first of all, I thank Deputy Vasuk for his fine words. And I want to say that every time the Secretariat gives us an analysis of our work after another session, it clearly states that we are practically not enacting laws on State construction, constitutional construction. Economic laws prevail. It is precisely when we can adopt at least one bill by the ninth anniversary of the Constitution. And I think that's going to happen by a constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u56	Korz, the faction of Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u57	Thank you. I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that the Chief Legal Authority is giving a negative assessment of this bill. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please hand over the rest of the time to Andrew Skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u58	Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u59	Thank you. I would like to point out that there is indeed a decision and a decision by the Chief Expert Office. And I would also like to say that the law was not given in time. The fact that he is raw and not fully spelled out has already been mentioned. But the main thing. We say we sign up for the Sevastopol community all the time. There are people who now run the city and have their position. And there was no polling in the community. So we only have to believe in the drafters of the bill. So I encourage you to postpone this bill, work out and make a positive decision in the event that our scientific expertise is in favour of it, and when the bill is less raw, it will produce water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u60	Thank you. I'd like to ask my respectable colleague not to make a fuss, especially when we approach the consideration of other bills so that you can manifest such principles in other bills. Let's look for compromise. Yes, dear fellows, we were exchanged for reasons of vote. The first is the committee's proposal to vote, and it's meant to adopt the draft law on the town of Sevastopol as a whole in the second reading. [[Registration number 3187-1]] Please vote. [[10:43:36]] For 261 The law is passed. [[Applause]] The factions? Please: "Our Ukraine" - 3, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 49, National Party - 36, Block Timoshenko - 8, SPU - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 5, SDPU - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 19, "One Ukraine" - 4, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, non-fractional - 14. For reasons of what? For reasons of what? Right now, I'm going to announce the law. If that's a question, please. A draft Law on International Private Law is being announced for consideration. Please, for that matter? Now, one minute. Assadchev. There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u61	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I suppose. I'm talking to you right now. Well, the law was voted. But let's say, if the scientific and expert administration objected to or was there a warning, Minust made a statement against and there were warnings, please tell me, the reporter reporting the law should tell us what the essence of the conflict is? Why are they against it? Don't we have expert science expertise? Yeah. Legal. So let's unscramble them. You can't do that. You have to adopt a professional law. We need to figure out what the essence of the conflict is, and the problem in Sevastopol is the issue of coast guard, that's in the presence of the Russian fleet and so on. That is why we would like to have been trained in the Supreme Council, rather than simply penetrating laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council doesn't push anything or push anything, it makes a decision. There are recommendations, I want to highlight the recommendations of the Legal and Scientific Administration. The reporter said that most of these comments were removed in the process of processing them. Yes. Manchulenko, microphone, please. Well, respectable colleagues, well, he's just as much as I respect you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u63	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear friends, well, voted on emotion. I want to tell you what's in this bill. Part 6 of articles 7, 9 of the State budget provides for a subsidy to the budget of the city of Sevastopol to compensate for the city’s budget for the placement of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in the city’s territory of no less than 50 percent of the amounts established between the state covenants. But there is article 95 of the Constitution, and this rule, which is voted in this bill, contradicts article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines the principles of the budgetary system, stipulates that only the State Budget Act of Ukraine defines any expenditure incurred by the State in general. Thus, before voting, the Ministry of Justice had to listen to the comments made by the legal authorities of our apparatus, rather than make decisions on emotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u64	Yes. Dear colleagues, the draft law is being reviewed. Well, it's been an hour, so how long? Shurma, please. Well, Shurmi's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u65	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking you not to violate the Constitution in the simplest way. He just voted in favour of dispossessing Yehanurov's authority - his card continues to vote. Just as the polling card of Dusty continues to be voted on, he is vigilant for the defense of Ukraine. And one more thing. Yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Maternal and Childhood Protection, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Minister of Health Polishchuk, held a meeting. You told us that he had filed with you for the appointment of the chairman of the committee. I can't believe you're telling us the truth, but then she's misleading Poljczek. And I have to say that there is no political will of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" for one reason, as Lenin wrote: "The Party of Power protects its people." So let's not protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u66	No one mentioned you! I'm asking you to calm down! Dear National MPs, as national deputy Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk made a statement, that is indeed the case. I sent this application to the committee to prepare a draft of the relevant decision. Regarding the deputies who are committee heads and who work for the executive branch, taking into account the complexity of the situation, I signed an order authorizing the first deputies of committee heads to assume the responsibilities of committee heads to solve this problem by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So that's the problem with their own committee, how they organize their work. If necessary, I will come and hold committee meetings if the Rules allow me to do so. And all the rest, Your Honor, this decision must be a court of law. As for Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov’s card, we were not able to block it in such a short time after we made our decision. Please, Musiaka Viktor Lavrentiovich, head of the Legal Policy Committee's subcommittee on the draft Law on Private International Law. No one's ever mentioned you! Please! I want to say again, take a look at the Rules, it says, one line was exchanged, and that's enough. Please! They're going to give me a transcript. If there is, I'll give you my word. Well, give me a stenographer. Give me a transcript from Shurma's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! The Law on International Private Law is adopted for the development of international relations and for the promotion of cooperation between Ukraine and other States. So it turns out that we are the second reading and I have the ultimate hope for the adoption of this law at a time when Ukraine has made a particularly active declaration of its desire to invest, to develop international relations, and it is the adoption of this law that will contribute to all of our aspirations. The law worked with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Ministry of Justice, the Legal Department of the Supreme Council, and I have to tell you that this cooperation was extremely effective. I think it's one of the laws, as our director of the Law Department has said, which is an example of how various branches of government have been working together to get the necessary bill worked out. There were 202 offers, of which 186 were included. I think we should also consider the final proposal of the Civil Procedures Authority, which pointed out that, since the Administrative and Procedural Code has not been adopted, and you know that it is also related to the implementation of the Civil Procedure Code, it is proposed that this law be implemented from 1 September 2005 and that the Transitional Regulations in Chapter 14 should be noted that paragraph 3, paragraph 2, of the Transitional Regulations is put into effect after the implementation of the Civil Procedure Code, and that some parts of the Act are suspended. Now I'll tell you for sure, the Foreign Economics Act. So I propose to support the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we'll follow through. Third amendment. Is the Roadman insisting on it? No, it's not. Seminoga. Amendment 11. You're insisting on her. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u69	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u70	Don't insist. Taras Longi, 23rd Amendment. No, it's not. Long, 26. No, it's not. Seminoga, 31. No, right? The Seminomist takes off his repairs. Minister's office, 42 revisions. 40 revisions, Boris Bespallius. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u71	First, 18 revisions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think it's an accident that I'm not given a word, even when I'm due, but one of the people's deputies who's always thinking about dogs and slandering the People's Union, you give a word for the first stroke of a stick. I'm forced before coming to the ground for the amendment, first of all, to say that Mikola Efremovich Poljczek is not a member of our party, but he is a worthy person, and we'll be glad if he enters it. And I would ask you not to give the word to political provokers at all, only they raise their hands and break the bill. You know who I mean. Because as a filmmaker, I'm glad he's worried about dogs all the time, but as much as he can bark. Now there's 18 amendments. I meant the thing that needs to be taken into account in the legal relationship of interests, at least one side, not just if there is mutual agreement between the two sides. This needs some kind of editorial refinement, I'd just like the committee to take this into account when working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u72	Boris Yakovich, the point is that when you considered your proposal, you concluded that the text clearly expressed its contents. See, the point is that you propose to replace in the text "party," "party" with the word "at least one of the parties", and the text says that this position is not applied if the parties, the party, made a choice of right according to the part of the first article. In other words, it involves the possibility that both sides, by consent, choose some right or at least one side, because the parentheses say exactly what you say, at least one side.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u73	He doesn't listen to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u74	Well, I have to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u75	I'm voting on Amendment 18 of Boris Bespalogo. [[10:55:11]] For-22. Decision taken. It's not a decision, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. I'd like, with your permission, my distinguished colleagues, to point out Boris Bespalogo, to say that I am equal to all the national MPs. A. is most friendly with "Our Ukraine," but it works for Boris Yakovitch that he sees garbage in a stranger's eye, and he doesn't see anything in another. So let's be tolerant. I respect you very much. 40th Amendment, please. Boris Bespallius, 40th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u76	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I didn't ask 18 for a vote. I asked for it only in editorial terms, and that's what I'm asking for in the 40th Amendment. The point is that it is stipulated that an appeal to a court, or another body, is addressed in an orderly manner to the Ministry of Justice. In the meantime, how and by whom is this order established? Orders can be established either by a normative act, such as the Law, in the order established by the Law, or by an organ, such as the Cabinet of Ministers. Otherwise, each centurion can set his own order. So this is a revision, really, editorial. But when it comes to the substance and the execution, problems arise. That's why I suggested that we set up a procedure defined by procedural legislation. If not, you can set it in the order defined by the Law, but you can't just write: "in the proper order." It is not clear, then, who is it? The amendment is editorial and I ask the Committee to agree with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u77	Please, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u78	If you leave what you have proposed, then this order should be determined only in the procedural law. But it can also be a material Law. So I could only agree with the order established by the Law. This can be both procedural and material. This part: "in the order established by the Law," I think we can accept that proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, since the Committee has agreed to write, "in the order established by the Law," obviously we don't need to vote. Let's move on. 42nd Amendment. Does the government insist on this amendment or not? No, it doesn't? Don't insist. Let's move on. Forty-eighth, Victor Lavrentiovich refuses. Twenty-one is the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u80	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u81	It's the 50th amendment, article 21, to rule out. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we have indeed proposed article 21, the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed to exclude. This is related to the legalization of documents. We already know that we have joined international conventions in this part, but in view of the fact that the words "unless otherwise provided for by law" have been added here, this issue will be removed by law on the ratification of this convention. We don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u83	Right. The same goes for your 54th amendment. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u84	Are you insisting on her? This is page 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u85	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u86	Oh, no? The government doesn't insist. Let's move on then. Vitaly Shibko, sixty-first. Are you insisting on her? No, it doesn't. Cabinet of Ministers, sixty-second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u87	We don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u88	So the Cabinet of Ministers is taking down their amendments. Then it's easier for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u89	We agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. Maybe something like that will be new there, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u90	Yes, the amendment of the Seminomist does not insist. The Minister's office is taking pictures, taking pictures. Here's where all the changes are counted. Who among his respected colleagues insists on his amendments that you think have failed to consider? There aren't any? The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law of the Law on International Private Law is then put to the vote. Registration number 2274. Please vote. [[10:59:29]] For 344 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u91	Thank you, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u92	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code is being announced for consideration. [[on the grounds for ceasing marriage]] Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak will also report on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the bill is small. The point is that Article 169 of the Family Code proposes to amend that when a person remains a court of law, the court’s decision should be sent to the civil registration authority, the civil status of the place where the child is registered. In order to make it clear that a father or a child is left with his or her parent’s parental rights. In connection with this 49th article of the Civil Code, it is proposed to complement "other acts of civil status" and to state that there should be a reflection of the fact that parental rights are deprived or restored after removal, renewal, 49th article to be made clear. It's an organ for recording civil status acts. And rejected. I think it's a reasonable proposition from the Chief Legal Authority. The 280 - article proposal on the recognition of a breakup abroad. In 280 articles, everything is clear and clear, so there is no need to make any changes. There is a proposal to accept it finally in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the repairs are all taken into account. We have every reason to put to the vote the draft Law amending the Family Code to adopt it in second reading and in general as a law. [[on the grounds for ceasing marriage]] Registration number 5611. Please vote. [[11:01:40]] For 351 Oleg Belarus, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! One small amendment. There we passed, and rightly done, the law on international law. But from the point of view of the interests of international law, the national state cannot accept such formulation. We need to correct in one word the application of international law. Then it'll be all right. I am submitting this proposal, an editorial regulation to clarify that the United Nations Secretariat does not present any claims to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u96	I ask Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak and the committee to see if this is a technical regulation, and there will be no objection, we must do and agree with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Dear colleagues, a draft law on the return of Ukrainian citizens' money savings on the basis of the coming of funds from the privatisation of state property is being announced. [[second reading]] Registration number 4093. Reporter Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u97	Dear President, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters! The Committee on Economic Policy provides the Supreme Council, prepared for second reading, with a draft law on the return of Ukrainian citizens'savings through the receipt of funds from the privatization of public property. Eight amendments have been made to the Ukrainian people's deputies. One of them was rejected, namely amendment number one of the Zaplatinski people's deputies, a provision that went beyond the concept of the draft law adopted in the first reading, and did not contain clear proposals. All other amendments are taken into account. It should be noted that the bill received a comment from the Legal Office, which had been considered in the Committee. In our view, this comment is somewhat exaggerated and does not refer to the substance of the draft law. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt the law on second reading and in general. With regard to the amendment of Platinum. Its essence is that it does not, the draft law, the draft law, I repeat, determine the source of means to recover the savings of citizens, a means of 50 per cent of the funds, from the privatization of public property and public property. And Zaplatinski proposes, in his amendment, not a source, but a redistribution of the source to other purposes as a wish, as possible, for use elsewhere. That is, his amendment is contrary to the spirit of the law itself. If there is no objection to Zaplatinski and all other amendments are taken into account, it is proposed that the law be adopted on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u98	Yes. Thank you. There's a request from the Cabinet of Ministers. Anatoly Arkadyovich Maksut. Please, before voting, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers asks not to support this bill for the following reasons: First, as has been pointed out today, this refers to budget expenditure and according to the Constitution, the only law that defines these expenditures should be the State Budget Act of Ukraine. Next question. The advent of privatization is the source of financing for deficits. And we cannot impose a source of financing for a deficit to pay for the savings of our citizens. Moreover, these are not reliable sources. And if we attach such an important social problem to unreliable sources, we will create even more acute social problems. And one last question. It's not clear today that there's an existing Act on Returning Depreciated Savings. This law, it doesn't cancel the previous one, it has to cancel or specify it. In view of these observations, the request does not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u100	Please, Vladimir Josephovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u101	Well, the law is not only legal and financial, the law is also moral. Thus, State property, which is now being privatized by the people and not by any persons who could redistribute it, is being privatized. It is the property of all the people. Therefore, the funds received from privatization must be channelled to the needs of the general public. One of such national needs, which has long promised to compensate the State and the ruling regime, is the saving of citizens who were in savings accounts at the Savings Bank of Ukraine. That's one side of the case. The other side of the case. You know, money has certain properties. If this money is not returned to the people, then they will simply be lost. We therefore propose, insist on the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a committee is put to the vote: the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the law on the return of Ukrainian citizens' money savings on the basis of the coming of funds from the privatisation of state property. Registration number 4093. Please vote. [[11:07:41]] For-189 The decision is not taken. A committee proposal? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 38, People's Party - 18, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 11, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, "One Ukraine" - 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 8, "Afterfractional" - 7. What's the committee's offer? Please, let him say it. Well, please, dear fellows! We have a lot of paperwork to do. Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u103	The Committee suggests re-reading, because the law is both moral and political, and determines the attitude of the Ukrainian people to the plight of the Ukrainian people today. I propose, well, first of all, to publish a list of deputies who have not voted in favour of this law. And the second is to re-read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u104	A proposal is made by the Committee for a second reading of the draft Law on the Return of Ukrainian Citizens' Money Savings on the basis of the coming of funds from the privatization of state property. Registration number 4093, please vote. [[11:09:24]] For 196 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Please, Assadchev from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I must be with you again. Well, somehow we have to come up with those bills that we're looking at. Just two days ago, we voted it was a sovereign debt. If it is a sovereign debt, it must be repaid at the expense of borrowing or issuing securities. If it's from privatization, then it's no longer a sovereign debt. Come on, my friends, let some economists at least tell those who are doing this populism today. And I want to tell you that there is no better fund than there is no budget in Ukraine today to pay off lost savings. Don't narrow this base down. You're only doing worse. That's what I'm saying to those who don't fully understand the economic nature of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u106	Yes, dear colleagues, the bill on the order of payment of the debt for electricity is under review. This is registration number 2511, but there is a letter from the committee requesting that the matter be reconsidered. What will be the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I'm voting on a motion to postpone the bill, registration number 2511. Please vote. [[11:11:01]] For 246 Decision taken. The bill is being transposed. The bill has been postponed. A draft law on measures aimed at ensuring the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex is being announced for consideration. Reporter Vladimir Kostaninovich Bronnikov, head of the Committee's Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! You now have two bills. First Bill 2511, which addresses the debt problems of electricity market participants among themselves. In finalizing the law, the TEC Committee considered that it was possible to allow for cross-calculations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u108	Vladimir Kostunica, I'm sorry. We postponed the study of Bill 2511, the committee's proposal was. Now we're looking at 5476.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have recently experienced the oil and gas crisis, we really don't know if it's over. We're all waiting for the gas crisis. The situation in Moscow due to the loss of electricity had not yet become clear. But the reliability of our electricity is no higher than Russian. These are the children of one's parents. Parliament commented to the Government at recent hearings on the energy strategy and on the permanent energy crisis. What we are considering in second reading today is our important contribution to the country's energy security. I recall that the law was based on the following principles: promotion of business actors to address debt problems, protection of creditors'rights, mutual benefit and equity for all participants in the calculation, monitoring of the debt repayment process by Kabmin, separation of debt repayments from current activities, provision by the State of sources of debt compensation resulting from the action of the State, minimizing changes in the planned income of past years in public and local budgets, the persistence of current income in public and local budgets, and the fixation of debts on 1 January 2005. 87 amendments were made to the second reading law. The factions that had previously abstained believed that the power that had led to a deplorable state of energy could not solve the problem had been actively working on the amendment. Two amendments have not been taken into account, which in some way discriminate against forms of ownership or allow interference with the current activities of enterprises. A few words on the comments of the General Legal Administration. The energy problems that have arisen in the context of the overall financial crisis in today's legal field cannot be addressed. The lawyers of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, our experts believe that all issues have been resolved and are fully incorporated into the Act. The Act is supported by the European Community and the World Bank, which link the adoption of the Act with the provision of investment in energy. The Committee requests the deputies to adopt the Act on second reading and in general as the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u110	Let's do some repairs. 9th Amendment, Boris Bespallian, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Boris Bespalogo's next amendment, 21st, do you insist on her? Microphone, please Boris Bespalogo
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u111	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." It's pretty clear that the problem is also the idea of a bill, it's fruitful. But here are some questions that arise, well, more faithfully, problems that arise, a lot of questions. In particular, it is suggested that the entry of an enterprise into a register, while the register is those who do not take part in the repayment of the debt, is the basis for the return of the household court without considering the bankruptcy case. So this is involved in procedural legislation, in court jurisdiction, that is, in fact, an attempt to replace administratively the court's proceedings. In the meantime, bankruptcy is both the wages and the creditors. Perhaps the mechanism would be better if the state compensated creditors for their wages and so on. Because when we solve one problem, we create a much different problem. How does the Committee feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u112	Thank you. We have considered all these circumstances carefully and say that the first is only suspended for nine months, but the Law allows the creditor and the receivable to settle their relationship in the pre-trial proceedings. I think the creditors will only win. They will have the reality that their interests will be fully taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u113	Is that how we vote, or are you filming? You're filming, aren't you? Let's move on. Amendment of 27 Boris Yakovitch. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u114	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, block of Viktor Yushchenka Our Ukraine. But first, the 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u115	I missed it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u116	I suggested that the following text be deleted: "in the course of the business's participation in the debt recovery procedure, there is a need to suspend the enforcement of decisions on this enterprise." I mean, how legitimate is the Special Law on the Fuel Energy Complex to stop the execution of court decisions? I'm reminding you that among these court decisions, well, there would be a court case, if we didn't make an agreement, people would go to court. If they don't get paid, like pay. The court decided to pay them their salary. And we have to stop this decision. So it's probably going to have to be divided here, where it relates to relationships with other factories, with other legal persons, and where it applies to things like wages, such as payments to individuals. Once again, here, in this part of the law is not worked, it feels like it was done by the energy industry, but not by the professional lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u117	Thank you. Legal professionals worked very hard on the law. The law also deals with the relationship of legal persons. Everything relating to a natural person and his debtor is not dealt with by law. That's why we thought that this amendment was actually taken into account, your proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u118	Put this amendment to the vote? No, it's coming off. Then 27, Boris Bespallian. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u119	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask, let's say, don't put it to the vote, because in general this law contains a number of positives. We'll support him. I'm just pointing out to the profile committee that these problems need to be addressed, they're coming back. Because one thing is what the drafters thought, and the other thing is what they wrote there. As it is written, it is definitely stopped, let us say, and decisions for individuals too. For example, a decision to pay wages, debts to individuals. Therefore, this section will need to be returned and clarified. Otherwise we'll just get serious social problems. And in this context, I'm paying attention to the 27th amendment. Because it says here that if an enterprise in a register stops even performing, there's a court, there's running, there's things going on. Others suffer. We're going to have to go back to that, just like we did to the only tax. And I ask you to take this into account and immediately prepare for making the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u120	It will be accounted for. We agree with your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u121	Boris Yakovich, so you're on the next amendment, aren't we going to discuss it? Yes, yours? Let's do it, yeah. Let's move on then. Correction of Boris Bespalogo 43rd. This is page 25. There's 43th and 44th, your two revisions immediately. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u122	Because I no longer require a vote on specific amendments. I have expressed my general position and the factions that we are ready to support it under such conditions. But I point out that stopping this law from executing court decisions, the possibility of prosecutions, executions and administrations is a deviation and a violation of both the Constitution and investors, both domestic and foreign, because no one is going to work in an area outside the jurisdiction of the court. So I just have a proposal for a committee. Now we're ready to support it, given that there are useful things. But we ask that we immediately prepare changes to this law that would lead to these problems that I've been talking about, so that the physical person doesn't suffer from the fact that we're solving the problems of a fuel-energy complex. I think this approach is understandable, it's social, it's going to be considered by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u124	Yes, Amendment 49. Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her? Microphone, please, Carmazine. This is page 27. Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'd like you to understand Karmazin's logic. Boris Bespalij now told you that there is a violation of the Constitution, and in particular articles 22, 58 of the Constitution, that because of what we do things like this, there is a suspension of the enforcement of judicial decisions, so we say that in a certain area for certain businesses that we are doing today, there is no absolute circle, we will not have the law. That's why I'm going to uphold this law, but not in the final edition. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I urge you, this law as a whole cannot be passed without having them polished in the Committee on Legal Policy, because it affects the rights and freedoms of people - legal persons and individuals - and the enforcement of judicial decisions that are made by the name of the State of Ukraine. So I don't agree that all legal problems are settled there. I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u126	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u127	The Committee engaged specialists from the Committee on Legal Policy in the analysis of this legislation. And all the discussions were held at a number of round tables. With regard to your observations by natural persons, this is a subject of a separate law, and we, together with your committee, will bring the logic to an end so that individuals are not able to count in debtors for electricity for a general reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u128	What further warnings do national deputies have? All the amendments that raised objections or doubts were discussed. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Despite the proposals made, including by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, the committee's proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel-Energy Enterprises is put to the vote. Registration number is 5476. Please vote. [[11:23:53]] For 230 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 69, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 41, National Party - 35, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDPU - 15, Democratic Ukraine - 18, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, non-fractional - 9. The draft Law on the Status and Procedural, Social Guarantees of the Investigations of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number is 4125. Reporter Maria Andriyovna Markusz Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u129	Marcus, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your second reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of the Investigations of Ukraine is presented. I would like to remind you that this project was adopted on the first reading of June 29, 2004, with the support of 341 members of the National Assembly. The need for adoption of this law is due to the requirements of the concept of judicial and legal reform in Ukraine, which was approved by the Supreme Council in 1992. In recent times, this question has repeatedly been raised at all levels. On March 16th, at parliamentary hearings on judicial reform, the judicial investigation in Ukraine should be objective, fair and effective. The status of the investigator requires serious public attention, primarily through legislative regulation of his activity. The main purpose of this bill is to strengthen the professional core of the investigation departments, improve their quality composition, and especially reduce the outflow of highly professional professionals from the investigation. The numerous complaints that have come to us from the electorate testify to the very low level of judicial investigation in the state. The usual phenomenon was the gravity, the low professionalism, the firmness of law enforcement, the lack of sufficient knowledge of the law. This room has a great deal of your appeal to the heads of the law enforcement agencies on this subject. Resonant matters generally do not have a logical conclusion, for investigators cannot always overcome pressure from influential persons, or there are cases of political persecution or a contract where there is always a component of crime. Many of the issues that have recently been taken seriously by the national MPs could be removed if the Law on the Status of Investigators were adopted, and we certainly would not need to adopt the Law on the Transfer of Accused Persons to 150 National Deputies if, indeed, the investigator was a procedurally independent unit. It must be admitted that there is no independent investigation in Ukraine as such. The examples are enough: loud, tragic, and the fates of the people behind them are broken. About one and a half thousand investigators with higher legal education are released each year, including the vast majority of young professionals. The state of practice in the investigative system for up to three years, that is, young experts are half of the investigators. And from three to five years, 30 percent. Consider: Only five percent of investigators have been in the investigation for more than 10 years — that is, that rubble of training a truly qualified investigator. In fact, in four or five years, the special composition of the investigation units is almost fully updated. Constipating experienced specialists in the field service in the investigation departments would save considerable money each year in preparation for the investigators. Now, in preparation for just one investigative state, almost 120,000 dollars are spent from the budget, and at the same time, the flow of personnel in the investigation units -- I'm told above -- is one and a half thousand investigators per year. About 150 investigators are released during the first year of service. This results in annual additional spending from the State Budget of 130 - 140 million dollars per year for the implementation of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u130	Let me finish. Please don't report the bill, let's go after the amendments, we've already reported it. Please give the opportunity to finish speaking to the deputy head of the committee. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u131	This bill requires an additional 35 million dollars to be spent, but I would stress that the economy will be 100-110 million dollars per year in terms of reducing the flow of personnel. The legislators introduced 219 amendments to the second reading. 209 of these are included and only 10 amendments are not included. These include Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich, Amendment 35. Is Vasil Vasily Vasilovich insisting on voting on this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u132	Wait, I'll be driving here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u133	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, who insists on amendments that are included? There are very few of these amendments, and most of them are taken into account. None. Therefore, attention is paid to the vote by the second-reading committee and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Law on the Status and Procedural and Social Guarantees of the Investigators of Ukraine, registration number 4125. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill, because it is essential for investigators. [[11:29:15]] For 244
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u136	The law is passed. The draft Law on the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Alexander Markovich Bandurka. Please, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u137	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! There's no point in repeating the content of the National Criminal Enforcement Service Act, as we're looking at it a third time. The second read came with 105 amendments to the law, of which 95 are counted, 8 are not counted, we can now look at them. I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! We've been looking at this bill, as you know. It was rewrote for second reading. Now we need to go through the amendments if we need it again. 5th Amendment, Boris Bespallius. Microphone. And the 6 is yours, and the 10 is yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u139	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine" In fact, I confirm that the law is important, and that many amendments are taken into account, but the point is that some very important things are not taken into account, and I therefore point out that without them, it is unlikely that this law can be supported. The first amendment 10 provides that the enforcement agencies, the State Executive Service, can make international contracts. I made such an amendment that all these contracts must be ratified. I'm told that under the International Contracts Act there were unratified contracts. I know that perfectly well. But there should be no civilian parliamentary oversight in the area of execution. Penitentiary institutions in two countries cannot make agreements outside public control. So I ask that you take the 10th amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u140	I, Boris Yakovich, will say that the word "valid" we agree to rule out, that your amendment was the sixth. You can see the look in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code that's the term used, and we wanted to leave it for standardization. And I don't think the committee would object if it were written, "the agreement on the responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine," but we actually referred to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, where revenge can conclude agreements and treaties between different countries. We do not deny that this amendment is accepted. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u141	The committee agrees, but let's confirm. I think it's worth supporting Boris Yakovitch, and he's absolutely right that the contracts that are concluded should be ratified by the Supreme Council. Please support this amendment, we vote. [[11:32:58]] For-140. Not accepted. Yes, please, what other amendments? Boris Yakovich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u142	Thank you. 62nd Amendment. In this case, ensuring the rule of law, the rules of the internal order in the institutions of execution of sentences, the investigators of isolation, and the surrounding territories, and requiring those convicted and those taken into custody, others, the execution of others, well, their duties, are established by legislation. I want to point out that here, at first glance, this is a matter of such minor legal technique, but in Ukraine under legislation, there is a broad sense of order, even for the head of the institution, and for the authorities, and for the legal acts. But anything relating to the rule of law in these organs, with a view to humanizing them, must be established only and exclusively at the level of the Law. This is an element, once again, of parliamentary control. This amendment is a principle that cannot be supported without it, in my view, by the Law; otherwise, it simply starts with local self-reliance, well, by those who. Guards.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u143	Boris Jakovic, thank you, the Committee agrees that the word "legislature" can be replaced by the word "law" is an editorial amendment, but it's important. Should we vote, or should we make an amendment immediately?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u144	Let's agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u145	Yes. Boris Jakovitch agrees. Please, what's the next correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u146	78th Amendment. Yes, Boris Yakovitch? 78th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u147	Please, Bespalogo's microphone. 78th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u148	Yes, before we explain it, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation outside the session hall and for its understanding in the session room. 78 is the most important of all the amendments that I think is, for us, an obstacle to supporting it all the way back. The point is, I ask my colleagues to listen carefully to what is going on. It reads: “use and use physical force, special means and weapons”. I emphasize -- weapons, can be based on and in order provided for by the Ukrainian Police Act and other acts of law. That is, if we leave it that way, it means that even in these penitentiary institutions, even weapons can be used in order and on the basis of the internal documents, by means of bylaws, which is absolutely unacceptable. The foundations and order, according to the 19th part of the article of the Constitution, are generally defined only by laws. We cannot put such an important question to judgment, or judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u149	We agree with that offer. I even had a conversation with Boris Yakovitch before going to the rostrum. Let us ask Boris Yakovitch to accept that we are making immediate changes here to the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u150	Yes, please, Bespalogo's microphone. Let's agree that the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u151	Yes, thank you for your understanding. And this is where some of my colleagues come to me, and they say that this is how I break the law. I think that the opposite is how I make it acceptable and acceptable. I'm bringing this to the knowledge of those colleagues who are trying to push in here in a private way. Then comes the 82nd amendment, which applies, again, I insist on the 82nd amendment, which is the same type. Replace the words “legal and legal acts”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u152	Boris Yakovich, we'll agree and we've fixed this in the project already.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u153	This applies when, for the protocol, I want to say that this relates to the 82nd, 87th and 107th amendments. I don't have any more. As such, there will be no obstacle to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u154	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the term "legal acts" should be replaced by the term "the laws of Ukraine." We agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, then the next amendment we have is the 82nd Boris Bespalogo. Let's move on. It's counted, it's counted. Counted. All the other amendments are also taken into account by the proposals that were made by the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u156	It's the law to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u157	Since the 107th Amendment. Boris Bespali insists? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u158	Yeah. I don't insist in this case. I just want to name the number of amendments that we've agreed on and that have to enter into the final text. That goes for, if I'm not mistaken, 62nd, 78th, 79th, 82nd, 87th. Regarding the 107th amendment, it's just legal curiosity, it's the law that puts it above all other laws. I don't think that's right, but we always write it down. That other laws only work if they do not conflict with this law. Such status is generally limited to the Constitution and ratified international agreements. But we attribute it to every law, it doesn't matter. So I don't insist, even though I think of it as just legal curryosis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u159	Please, Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u160	You can agree with that. But really, we all make warnings, because a sector of law can be governed by a number of laws. And in order for there to be no contradiction, we make warnings. If Boris Jakovitch insists, I agree to rule out the second one. Well, the other colleagues say we should leave. I wanted to thank all those who made their proposals to this law. Ivana Fedorovich Kuras, Moisik Volodymira Romanović, Boris Jakovič Bespalogo and I ask for the law to be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a draft law of the Law on the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine. Registration number 4370. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:39:57]] For 276 The law is passed. The factions? Please: "Our Ukraine" - 58, Communists - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 43, National Party - 35, Block Timoshenko - 29, SPU - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, non-fractional - 7. A draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the committee, following the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared a second reading bill on the rehabilitation of people with disabilities in Ukraine. The document is extremely important, it is a framework law and long-awaited by the disabled organizations of Ukraine. I would like to say that it provides for the creation of a single system for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities and for the identification of their basic components. The work of rehabilitation agencies, the certification of rehabilitation and serial production facilities, the state standard program for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, and the state social standards for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities are envisaged. I would like to tell you that the adoption of this document was preceded by two round tables at the level of Ukraine with the participation of disabled organizations, as well as a joint travel meeting of the College of the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy and the Committee at the International Medical Clinic in Truscavets. Of the 213 amendments, 194 are taken into account in whole or in part, 19 are rejected. Of these 19 rejected most of the amendments by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. However, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the adoption of this document in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, what are some warnings about this bill? You don't? One minute! Yeah. Peter Stepanovich, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, there are two technical warnings. I would like to point out that two technical, technical, technical errors were made during the drafting of the bill for the second reading. First, the amendment 102 mistakenly deletes part 2 of Article 1 6, which identifies the developers of state social standards in the area of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. And the second. In part 3 of article 34, it is necessary to delete the words "on account of the presence of the relevant signs, they set up a disability group" because this function does not belong to the authority of the rehabilitation institutions. Anything else I ask to support in the second reading and the entire document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u165	Boris Bespali. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u166	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Well, in general, there's a general observation of this nature, and there's a public organization that needs and is important to work with, that's exactly what policy functions are given, that is, as government authorities that make their decisions mandatory for others, that's not right. But I meant in this case a specific 99 amendment, which, in my view, is legally necessary in any matter. It says this: Failure or gross violation of the rehabilitation system is the basis for recognition of the invalidity license and so on. Who Will Determine Failure? I proposed a normal thing, established by the court of failure, that the court should set up, not just by anyone, including a public organization. So I'm asking this thing because it's about serious things to take into account, but my general comment on the law remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u167	Thank you, Boris Yakovitch. We're going to try to take as much of your general comment as possible. As for the 99th Amendment. You, from my point of view, are somewhat narrowing the subject down because, and if it is a gross violation, is it obvious even without a court order? So you're narrowing it down a little bit. So the committee rejected the amendment. But if Boris Jakovitch insists, she can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, this is page 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u169	The committee does not support this. [[11:44:57]] For-38 Correction not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u170	Yes, please, the final position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u171	The committee requests that this document be supported in the second reading as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote: acceptance in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 5699. Please vote. [[11:45:38]] For 281 The law is passed. I see, I see, now I say, dear colleagues! I can see everything! Honorary colleagues, a number of factions have made appropriate statements, including a request or an offer, to vote on breaks for consultations. That's three pairs of factions. Since we're about to enter an extremely complex law, I think we'll listen now, if there's no objection to what we wanted to take a break from, and then we'll continue our fruitful work. So these factions have been making proposals since the very morning: the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Region of Ukraine, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, and Booth and Our Ukraine. [[united]] In such a sequence, I would ask you to make your suggestions, and we will continue to work. This is not a question. Oh, you mean the next one? Okay. Please, Igor Shurma. Who will speak from the faction of the Socialist Party?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u173	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We're talking to the national MPs who are here today in the hall. We're talking to Ukrainian society. Today, in Ukraine, we have an unprecedented case where the national deputies of Ukraine, the national electorates who present the new government today, violate the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, articles 78, 79, 84, and 120 of the Constitution are brutally trampled. From this rostrum, the highest rostrum in Ukraine, each national deputy made an oath and promised to comply with the requirements of the Constitution. Today, those national deputies have betrayed the Basic Law of Ukraine. Every bill that provides for the implementation of decisions needs financial justification. Our faction introduces two bills to help the President of Ukraine decide how to free not only the national MPs but also his immediate family. This is a bill on the specificities of discharge of persons who combine the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy with other activities, as well as the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy to ensure compliance with the requirements regarding the incompatibility of the status of the national deputy with other activities. I would like to talk about the economic component of this bill. It's unique, you don't have to spend any money on it, but I'd like the people who live in Ukraine to know that if these laws come true and the President of Ukraine clears, we'll save money. 30 national MPs from the party of power, especially from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, who get their salary today, it's easy to count 5,000 dollars for 30 people and 5 months, and let them continue to fight for pensioners' rights and so on. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party, together with the Party of Regions, requires the immediate inclusion of these bills in the agenda, the decision-making process. [[united]] And if we don't get good at this moment today, and we don't look at these bills, we're going to go to the extreme of what the opposition has taught us about the President's election -- blocking the rostrum until the final resolution of this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u174	Please, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus of two BUT factions and our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u175	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Yesterday, the Supreme Council adopted a decision on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the organization of Polish military burials for 18-19 years in the area of the historic cultural reserve of Lichakovsky Cemetery under number 2796. Today, two factions of "Our Ukraine" and BUT have put forward a draft decree on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the funeral procession, and this decree has won quite a large number of parliamentary votes, more than 200. On behalf of the two factions, I would like to ask you to address the very delicate diplomatic situation facing our country and ask you to take note of this and to vote in favour of yesterday's decision, which will contribute to the successful meeting of the two heads of state appointed for September 24th, and remove the unprovoked and unnecessary international conflict. At this point in time, our nation's decisions are history, they're going to interfere, and it's not going to contribute to our nation's integration into European structures. I propose and ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to return to the vote of this ruling, which was made in the morning at the morning session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u176	Yes. Of the two factions who also requested a break, Alexander Alexander Moroz. Well, please, who's in there? Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, there is a great request and Alexander Alexanderovich asked all of you with such a question. A few times we have a question in our message of the day every week, a block of property rights laws that are not subject to privatization. Every time we have them, they've been moving from one week to another for four weeks. This is a block: 5043 and the Laws, and the second block: 7272. There's a big request that we put this block to a quick vote after the second reading. Perhaps even after a brief procedure, this question has certainly been considered. It's about strategic enterprises like Crevystall, Turboatom, Odessa Portal, Luhansk Heat. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, come up Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, can I pass on the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u178	Please, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I apologize for not being able to make it at this time. Indeed, such is the case with chicken and an extremely important strategic problem. The fact that the State can dispose of strategic objects that are in fact monopolies in Ukraine. And to prevent that from happening, in previous laws and regulations that provided for the order of privatization and lists of enterprises of different kinds, these enterprises were referred to those that were not subject to privatization. Today, through decrees, through the falsification of the State Property Fund Act in 2000, they are now trying to release the most important enterprises from the hammer. And on terms that I just don't want to call. For example, the Locomotive Plant in Lugansk for 72 million, when its starting price may be at least half a billion. I would ask that we now vote in favour of including the issue in the order of the day. The head of the holding fund will come. She'll report the project and, I think, we can vote. It's on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, it has been said, I'd like to have your attention. Three suggestions were made. The first sentence is to include in the agenda two bills relating to national MPs that combine positions with the execution of parliamentary powers in executive structures of power. The second proposal for a return to consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the 7788, based on Oleg Belarus. And the third question is, after the end of the chapter, the second reading, to consider bills that deal with privatization issues. Come on. Please sign up for five minutes. We exchange our thoughts. I'll put all the proposals to the vote. Five minutes. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, we need to work. Five minutes. Humenjuk, please, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u181	Humenuk Oleg, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Bespalom Boris Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u182	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u183	Thank you. In principle, I think that in order for us to be able to accept really important bill packages for Ukraine, we need maximum consistency in the actions of the Supreme Council. I think everyone understands that. In particular, those bills that are intended for Ukraine’s entry into the WTO should be accepted at this session. From this point of view, it is possible to compromise on certain reconciliations and proposals of other factions. So considering the privatisation packages of these laws prohibiting privatization is quite possible what the Socialist Party said. They go in as if they were a supplement to this packet. The same is true of Lichakovsky Cemetery. I think it would be normal for society to support these bills. But we suggest that we vote then in very short order so that we don't slow it down in time. It's about the co-conspirators.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u184	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u185	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u186	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u187	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, with regard to the co-conspirators, the problem was understood. This is corruption in power, and the authorities of nationalists and socialists openly claim it. That they use the authority of national deputies to cover up their crimes and not sit where they need to sit. And that needs, let's say, to be clear that they're not going to be authorized. On the second question. This is a violation of the rude procedure and of the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yesterday the question was discussed about Lviv. A decision was made. Today, national deputies have not supported the return and should not abuse the Supreme Council. And the third. It's about privatization. I'm sorry. This is a necessary question, it needs to be done hard, defending national interests, defending specific labour groups, doing well, not allowing these enterprises to privatise. But there is a need to stop the privatization process altogether. We need to get back through reprivatization and nationalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u188	Yes, Paul Sulkowski, please, microphone, faction of "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, there's a proposal for a decision where the government faction recommends, and there's a question: where was this faction yesterday that voted in favour, and today is already in favour. This is about this decision. With regard to privatization. We don't mind supporting Alexander Alexandrovich's proposal, but I believe that, Vladimir Mikhailovich, these issues are now in the agenda and there is nothing to overstep. If we go, we'll get to these issues today on schedule. What about the co-conspirators? There is a suggestion that, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, including the project proposed by Mr. Shurma, will really solve these questions today, and we will no longer return to them. There is a request today to include this bill in the agenda. This is really going to be the case that all of us national MPs will not allow us to violate the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u190	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u191	Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Party Volodymyr Litvina, Mikolayivščina, 133 constituency. Honorable national MPs, in Mikolayevska, about ten radgos and neighbors who cannot privatize the land, decompose, and suffer. You know, in the village, everyone, most of them, lives on pensioners. For about six months, we're looking at Law 5043-10. I'd like to include it, because today, I see, we're not going to look at it, and people are waiting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u192	Vitaly Corge, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u193	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u194	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, our faction has made a proposal on this sad issue. And you don't have to trample on that. The faction comes from the international price that Ukraine can pay if we do not settle this issue delicately and peacefully. So I would like to urge you once again to look at it and in this respect, it was the right thing to say that our faction voted in favour. But there is a need to go back to this question and look at it because of the prism of Ukraine’s national interests the perspective of our relationship with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u196	Yes. There was an exchange of thoughts, a replica of Alexander Frost. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I am addressing, in this case, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. For several months now, there's a constant message in the room: "Communists or nationalists or socialists in power." I'd like to see a nationalist, at least one in power, whether it's Terjehochin, whether it's Lucenko, or Timoshenko, or someone else, but it's a detail. In 1999, we were able to form the power of communists and socialists. And this was not done because of Peter Mikolaiovich’s dependence on specific people. I haven't said anything about this in six years, and I'm asking you to stop using this term because it's going to end badly for you, first of all. I'd like to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Please, Simone's line. Please don't scream, I can see without you. Well, what are you yelling at? Please. And let's do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u199	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'd like to talk to everyone, my respectable colleagues, and to our radio audiences, once again. There are specific realities of political life and the results, so-called 2004 elections. Together, in their intentions to do something in Ukraine, representatives of right - hand nationalist circles and the Socialist Party. It's a fact, it's joint statements, signatures, it's Yushchenk's support for his election as president. All of this is confirmed by the government's being specifically appointed minister of the agro-industrial complex, which is, by the way, 38 percent of the gross domestic product. This is the Ministry of the Interior, this is the Property Fund, which is stealing today, whether it's contributing to the theft of the state. This is the Ministry of Education, when we are forced today, protecting our veterans, the holy memory of the Great Homeland War, to turn several times: correct the mistake. But unless it's a joint effort, it's not the only policy, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order to preserve understanding here in the session hall, as we have demonstrated today when we make decisions, I will now put to the vote all three proposals that have been made separately. The first suggestion was to include Bills 7628, 7700, in the agenda. I'm going to put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of these issues in the chapter that we have, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. That's the first one. The second is the return to the agenda of the 7788, based on Oleg Belarus. And the third is to consider after the chapter "Other Readings," the bills that relate to privatization issues, which is to raise them above. That was three suggestions, I'll put each one to a vote. The first sentence is put to the vote: to include in the agenda of the section "Inclusion in the agenda and decision-making" today, Bill 7628, which refers to the specificity of the discharge of persons who associate the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy with other activities, as well as Law 7700. But I'm going to put, honorary colleagues, as required by the Rules, on a stand-by basis. Therefore, the first sentence is to vote: on the inclusion in the bill chapter, the chapter is entitled: "For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making", bill registration number 7628: "On the specificities of discharge of persons who combine the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy with other activities." Please vote. [[12:05:57]] For 273 Decision taken. Just a minute. Let's go to the factions, please. Our Ukraine -3, Communists -56, Ukraine -49, People's Party -34, Block Timoshenko -9, SPU -23, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, SDPU - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 8, non-fractional - 13. I'm voting on the inclusion in the section "For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making," Bill 7700 on amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" on ensuring compliance with the requirements on the non-compliance of the status of the People's Deputy with other activities. Please vote. [[12:06:58]] For 262 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 1, Communists - 56, Ukraine - 49, People's Party - 33, Block Timoshenko - 3, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 12, SDPU - 19, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 10, non-fractional - 13. Now, if you'll have your attention. But we don't have to. We've already voted the decision, no. Calm down, please. Calm down, we've already made our decision. What? Dear colleagues, we agreed, I said I'd ask three questions, please. I'll put it to another vote, come on! Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a return to the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the 7708 Draft Order on the lifting of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the decision of the Lviv City Council to complete the sorting of Polish military burials in 1918-1919 on the territory of the Historic Cultural Reserve "Lichakovsky Cemetery". No. 2796/PL since 22 June 2005. Return questions to the agenda. Please vote. [[12:08:41]] For 244 We're back. I would like to vote on the inclusion of Decree 7708 in the agenda of the day. I said how we're going to put it to a vote. [[12:09:03]] For 245 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft order, registration number 7708. Change the voting, on the factions, please. I've read the terms on which I'm going to bet. Please give the factions. They can't say anything anymore. We'll read about it on Adam Ivanovich's monitor. If there are arrangements, they can be executed, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u201	I'll read it from the monitor, but by the way, you have them on your monitors, too. Our Ukraine -74, communists -0, Ukrainian regions -10, National Party -30, SPI-8, Block Timoshenko -32, Ukrainian People's Party - 16 SDPU(o) -0. The only Ukraine -18, Democratic Ukraine -20, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -12, Democratic Initiative -6, non-fractional -18.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u202	I'm voting on the draft order, registration number 7708. Please vote. [[12:10:31]] For 247 Decision taken. Now for the third offer. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 75, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 11, People's Party - 28, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 6, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "Only Ukraine" - 18, Party "Industrials, Entrepreneurs" - 13, Democratic Initiatives - 7, non-fractional - 17. Now, the final proposal, which was that after considering the second question, would consider drafts on privatization issues. I'm voting on this proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:11:22]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please, Adam Ivanovich. Please calm down, well, let's work it out, 'cause we'll make a decision then, all of you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I asked for a word on the grounds of the vote in connection with what. You may recall that we recently discussed with you in this session hall a bill on a simplified tax system for small and medium-sized businesses. It was the promise of the Cabinet of Ministers, personally the Prime Minister. Our colleagues introduced a bill, particularly the National MP of Lapin, which we adopted in this session room with you. After that, a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, our colleague, the representative of BUTU, began to accuse the Chief Martinyuk of breaking the rules. And yesterday at the Regulatory Committee, according to his application, a decision was made. I will remind you today that in the same way I violated the regulations of the representative of BUTU, who demanded that the ruling that we have rejected today be put to the vote, is the cemetery at the Lichakow Cemetery. Those of you who voted, I'm just reminding you what you voted for. You voted for Lviv being part of the Polish state. Here, please use this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u204	Yes. A draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine, registration number 7354, is being announced for consideration. What, what? Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u205	Oh, no. I put it to a vote. The Supreme Council did not support it. Why? Are you the initiator of this issue? Why us? Please, let's work. We voted. Oh, I'm gonna take a break. I'm on it. Once again, dear fellows, do not direct me. That's how it's going to be. We had to mobilize and make a decision. All of it. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u206	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. So what's the offer, I can't understand? Ah, report, please. Please don't block, because there's no one to vote now. I'll put it down, not vote again, there's no one to vote, but look. Let's see, we'll come today. We're not coming today, so let's see tomorrow, we'll come. Well, come on. The Supreme Council will make a decision, then we will consider. I'm in, but we have to make a decision. I'm asking you, whatever it is, there are no people in the session room, there's nothing to put. I'll be right there. If you want, I'll just put it back on, will I? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7354. Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u207	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. For your consideration, the second reading proposes a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, registration number 7354. It should be noted that the text of the revised draft Law for the second reading differs greatly from that proposed in the first reading. We held several working groups and committee meetings when we considered the law. The final table is the result of numerous meetings and compromises between MPs, government and domestic producers. A total of 589 proposals from 32 Ukrainian national deputies were received for the second reading of the bill. The text of this law consists of more than a thousand pages. 253 proposals by deputies are taken into account or partially taken into account. It should be noted objectively that representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine considered very carefully and understandingly with the working group, national deputies, both members of the Committee and authors of comments and suggestions and found compromise solutions. Yes, in fact, the 28 deputies who participated in the drafting of the 32nd Bill remained in general or largely satisfied with the committee's decision. Among the amendments taken into account, proposals such as Soboleva by parts for Autoprom, Veretennikova by car, Sergiyenka and Králova for components not produced in Ukraine, for paper and paper and paperboard industries; Kozachenko and Larina by cable and cable and copper products; Jeremiah by textile and auxiliary materials and equipment for light industry; Long and Catchure by components for electronic and television industry; National Deputy Suprun by Coal Electrics used for furnaces; Mother by furniture industry; Vashuk by equipment for the breadth industry and other national MPs who participated in the working groups and sessions were influenced by the possibility that they would have both influenced and influenced them. In addition, I would like to set out some details for the stenographer, some reconciliation by the committee in such positions. The electric motors set up at five percent, that is, the agreed decision of the committee but failed. [[Code 8501529300, 8501529900]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u208	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u209	which were additionally included in the table. These are also proposals made by the people’s deputies to make an agreed decision now. It goes from 84831030 and 41 to 8483103060. In the first reading, there were 10 percent and 5 percent of the alcohol and full. The proposal is to set a percentage at all. Tractors, codes - 8701-201000, 8701-2900 and 8701-301000. It is proposed that 10 percent be set to support the domestic tractor manufacturer. Agricultural tractors are also in groups of 270190 at 10 percent and 901100 from 901100 to 909,000 also at 10 percent. Farming machines are ploughs, borons, cultivators, set at 10 percent to also protect the domestic producer, as well as commercial positions 848210-1000, 848210-9000, 848220-0000, 34 0's, 44 0's and 54 0's. And the last one is 84 zero to be equal to 15 percent. The Committee on Finance and Banking, once again, I would like to emphasise, I have considered all the proposals very carefully, and all those who participated in the meetings, working groups and councils have had the opportunity to work and influence decision-making. So it's practically all this law, although it's very big, but in general it's consistent. The committee therefore proposes that this law be adopted in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u210	Please sign in from the procedure. Yes, please, five minutes of Cachure, Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u211	Dear Anatoly Yuriovich, on the committee we considered an amendment concerning televisions. Kachur Pavel Stepanovich, "Our Ukraine" faction. I'm here. We were looking at the TV amendment -- and I was making a proposal to change this rate and increase it to 25 percent. This proposal was based on the fact that today, in fact, Ukraine’s market in dumped goods from abroad, for which the rate of 14 percent is no longer a barrier. The committee rejected such an offer, and the only one that was an agreement with the minister of the economy. And I'd like it to be confirmed. If so, then the Ministry of Economics, within a two - week period, will place indicative tariffs on customs to set a barrier to such dumping products in Ukraine. If that's the case, I'm ready to take off this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u212	I want to confirm that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u213	Vitaly, wait, please don't answer. Dear colleagues, let's see: we're now on the ground of voting, we're in the process of general questions, and then, when we go to the amendments, we're going to make it clear that we're not going to confuse each other right now. So now, I'd say yes, general questions, approach to this code, and then we'll go to the specifics. Please, Loboda. After him, Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u214	I'd like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simone a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u215	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u216	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and respectable voters, the Communist faction, first of all, proposes not to consider this law now, because they received a thousand pages in the morning, and the Committee on Budgets has not considered it. Secondly, the Communist faction will not vote categorically in favour of the project, on the basis of the following. First, the project concerns an industrial group of goods, including small and medium-sized businesses. And I am addressing you, distinguished representatives of this part of the economy. The Communist faction advocates your interests, and those who took you out on the field today do not sign these laws, open the border to destroy your economy, our economy and your jobs. This is a minimum of $500 million in budget losses and, by the way, the Ministry of Economy has not submitted economic calculations. And it's not even part of it that can be considered. That two billion minimum budget will be stolen from the country. This concerns the destruction of machinery and metallurgy, i.e. cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u217	Anatoly Seminoga. Vitaly's out of control.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u218	Anatoly Seminoga, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, the law is really very complicated and in this bill only commodity groups are over 75. But I want to confirm that the committee and at the same time the working group did a huge job. There were many meetings of the working group, where representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and business, and Ukrainian exporting producers, and in every position a compromise was found, the issue was solved in the working group. Regrettably, the Communists did not take part in the work, so they probably have so many questions about it. A great deal of work has been done, and the bill is now fully ready for adoption in second reading and in general. I propose, on behalf of the faction, to support this bill and accept it today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u219	Please, Vitaly Shibko. After him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u220	Thank you. Please pass the word Sergeienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u221	Sergienka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u222	Thank you. A working group had been working for two weeks and those who had participated had fully agreed on all the amendments. Well, there are those that aren't agreed upon, but, as it is said, we don't have to take them into account. Therefore, the law is ready for adoption, in principle. There's a little technical error: it's written "counted," and it's actually written "not counted," where acceptance is. Well, it's separate that we're going to go after this amendment. And so the socialists will support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u223	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u224	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers believes that amending Ukraine's customs tariff will have an impact on halting the widespread practice of smuggling into the customs territory of Ukraine of goods, establishing transparent conditions for external economic activity, ensuring stability in the consumer market and the price situation on the market. Unsanctioned imports will enter legal flows, which, in turn, will complete the arrival of the State budget and will be a major step in the way of fulfilling the international commitments reached in the negotiating process following the accession of Ukraine to the WTO. As a result of this position of the Ukrainian People's Party's Cabinet, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that if this really happens, if we change the data, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party tends to vote positively. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u225	The conversation is over. So we're going to go to the specifics right now and we're going to be in the process of doing this. That's what we'll ask before the vote. In general, there is a valid question that we always face a dilemma, that similar bills according to our distribution, are being considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking, but this is directly and primarily about the Committee on Budgets. And we'd have to combine it in some way, but before the vote, we'll have to ask the representatives of the budget committee. Let's do some repairs. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a vote yet. We'll give it to the minister. Please, the third amendment, Rudzkowski. None. Rudzkowski, fifth. Staszewski, 4th. Don't insist. Rudzkowski, fifth. Don't insist. I understand that Rudzkowski doesn't insist on repairs, right? Rudkov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u226	Dear colleagues! Indeed, this customs tariff was worked on the committee, it had been worked on for a long time, but in some positions that had been decided upon, decisions had been made compromisingly. And so far no specific economic analysis has been given. I think in some places, in this 5th amendment, I'm not going to insist, but in some places, I'm going to the hall to concentrate and vote. Because some of the insistence of our colleagues is right. So I'm asking everyone to focus. Thank you. And I'm making this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u227	Yes. Let's focus. 10 Amendments, Klovev Andry? Don't insist. 11th, he doesn't insist. Sergienka, 13th Amendment? Please, it's Sergienka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u228	Where is she?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u229	13th Amendment, page 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u230	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u231	Don't insist. Yes. Rudzkowski, 14th, 15th? Don't insist. 16th? Don't insist. 17th? 20th? Don't insist. 21st, Mother? Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. 23rd, Rudzkowski? Don't insist. 25th, Rudzkowski? Don't insist. 26th, his name, 7th. No, well, there's not only Rudzkowski here. Let's just stick with the procedure. 31st, Rudzkowski? Yes. Rudkov microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, we have a 30th amendment. Did we get to her, Adam Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u233	Yeah, here we go, here we go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u234	So this is about methyl alcohol. I've been offered 10% as an amendment. Now it's proposed 5.5. In Ukraine, enough power is needed to close this position. I'd like my colleagues to support this amendment. It's not going to have a significant impact on the overall appearance. And no state here can insist, because mainly in Ukraine, this product is not yet imported, but it's a prospect to protect our chemical combinations from pressure on the Ukrainian market if the world's prices for chemical products fall and we have to work on the Ukrainian market. Please support this position. Ten percent. Sergey Anatolyevich, this is not a principle for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u235	Yes, please, 30th Amendment. The opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u236	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, these positions, which are listed in this code, are not currently being produced in Ukraine. They're very important to the chemical industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u237	Yeah, the thought, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u238	We support the position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u239	Yes. Rudzkowski insists. I'm voting on the thirtieth amendment. [[13:05:11]] For-59 Correction not supported. Thirty-fifth amendment. Heat up Boris, don't insist. 41st, Mother Vitaly, don't insist. Warm up, 42-ha doesn't insist either. Vertennikov, 66th. Please, the microphone. Sorry, 46th. Page 144.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, I was going to say about this bill. We worked so hard on it in both the Committee on Finance and Banking, and the proposals were in line with the government, and that was several times. Not once, but very many times. So I think my amendments here in general by the end of this bill will be about 30. They're all in agreement with the government, they're all in agreement on the committee. Most of them are accepted. I think I'm going to take all the changes I've made. And I want us to vote in favour of this bill. And the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u241	Classroom microphone, 61st amendment. He disagrees with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u242	61st Amendment. It's listed here. But it's printed that the rate hasn't changed. So this is a technical error. And instead of a figure of 5.5 in the right column, you have to put 0.0. A decision has been made on the committee, and the amendment has been made. And it says here what's counted. It's a technical error. The rest of you, I'm taking off the repairs. And I ask you to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u243	You probably have a slightly different drawing of the table. So I'm looking at the 61st amendment in the right-hand column of 5.5 percent. So I'm confirming it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u244	Let's do it again. On the 137th page, the right column is 5.5, 5.5. They're good for you. I'm talking to Sergei? Sergienka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u245	And there were 5.5, 5.5, or they wrote "accounted for," and they became 55. And it has to be 00.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u246	Yes, Vitaly, Sergienka is right. So there was 55 on the left and you moved it to the right. Please specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u247	I'm sorry, Sergeyenko's amendment. She was saying that you put five percent here. Zero percent? Yeah, it's a technical readjustment, we'll do what needs to be done here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u248	Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Sergienko is absolutely right. There was a discussion on pigments and the adopted Sergienka position was 00. It's just technically wrong in the middle column. There. Remember, there was no point - 55, and it seems that Sergienko insists on leaving 55. There's got to be zeros. And we support Sergei's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u250	We've cleared it up. Yes, please, from the first book, I can see that the Veretennikov amendments have taken their warning. Corrections to the People’s Deputy Rudzkowski Does he insist? Please, it's Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u251	So, 67 amendments, please, honey. Well, dear colleagues, if we're still going to say that there's not enough production in Ukraine, and we need to take pictures now and so on, well we're definitely paralyzing the Ukrainian economy. I have been offered 15 percent. This provides an opportunity to protect the Ukrainian manufacturer, to enable him to re-arm and produce products in Ukraine, proposed 6.5. 6.5 does not protect the Ukrainian market. And I don't understand what the reporter said to me that the committee discussed stood still. The bankers have been asking questions because they're sitting on your committee, the insurance companies have also stood up for themselves, but there are other sectors of the economy that don't have representation on your committee. Let them defend their interests, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u252	67 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u253	And you can say it literally before the Minister makes the comment. I reiterate that all those interested people's deputies who attended the working groups at the Committee's meetings had the opportunity to make their amendments. With regard to the people's representative of Rudzkowski, we have separately issued table 67 of the amendments, and he has not once appeared in a working group, not in a meeting of the committee. So you don't have to make any remarks to the committee. It is necessary to work not only in Parliament but also in the working regime, in working groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u254	Yes. Please. He insists on voting. Please, Rudzkowski again, now I'll give the minister. Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u255	Dear Mr. Homutinik, if you have read the Committee's Rules of Procedure carefully, the second reading is made by the MPs who make their remarks, and the committee considers them and makes informed decisions based on the competence of the professionals who work there. The deputies come to the committees, just to report the law on the first reading. And so I'd like to make a note that if we were to go with you, if we were to take our tails on the committee and ask for a stake, you would have to act and report in the interests of the whole of society and the Ukrainian industry, not trade with the MPs around you. Yes, report and put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u256	Thank you. Thanks for the advice. But not only do we have to work for the public, but we have to work for the outcome. And the result should only be in the working groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u257	Yes. Dear colleagues, there is a right for each other to come, but whoever wants to, he comes to insist and argue his amendments. Yeah, they're right and they're right. Please, Minister Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u258	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that bet is 6.5. Why does she stand like this? Because there have been meetings with our cosmetics industry, the hygiene industry that they produce. And this is the exact rate that subtracts the difference between national production and foreign imports. Most of all, it's not about this rate, it's about massive imports of similar goods from countries with which we have a free trade zone. That's the problem. And the Ministry of Economics will apply measures against mass imports from these countries that don't pay any taxes at all. The Cabinet of Ministers therefore supports the decision of the working group and the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u259	People's MP Rudzkowski insists on "miles," that is, the soap repair. I'll bet you a vote. 67 revisions, dear. [[13:13:26]] Z-62 The factions? Please. I'll just have to read the positive results. "Regions of Ukraine" - 10, National Party - 20, Block Timoshenko - 2, Socialist - 26, "One Ukraine" - 4. Yes, we still have Rudzkowski’s repairs in the first book. Please, what's the correction? Rudzkowski's microphone. And Mike's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, if the Supreme Council so votes in defense of the national manufacturer, it is a pleasure to be sent to the Supreme Council for soap. But what about the fact? I'm proposing a 98 amendment to look at again from the same ones, from the signs. I see that the session room is not up to constructive work. Here's the question, I'm going to put up with the paraffin candles. Well, I understand that something is not being produced in Ukraine, but why take candles from Italy, from Austria, and spend millions of dollars on candles? Can't they be released in Ukraine? Ask any Orthodox coming -- they can help you and explain how to do it. And that's why we need to protect the internal market. We offered 10 percent. This is a real possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u261	We're going to vote now. But I'm asking my colleague Rudzkowski to use parliamentary statements and not send anyone out for soap, because you're also among those you want to send. And without you, there's someone to send us away. So let's at least respect ourselves. 99th Amendment to Candles. I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u262	98th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u263	98. [[13:15:40]] For-50 Not supported. Yes, the People's Deputy Rudzkowski. After the first book, do you have any further observations? None. I'm going to Vitaly Mike. Please let me see him. It's Kalinchuk. No Vitaly Mother. Yes, the Veterniks withdrew their amendments. Warming does not insist. Honorable colleagues, who among the national deputies who made amendments to the first book, are unaccounted for, who insists? None. I guess so. Yes. Please, Bezpali, microphone. But this may not be the first book. What's your correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u264	It's not the first, it's 158.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u265	Wait, please. Then wait. We're done with the first book. Yes, let's move on to the second book. Yes, Vitaly Mother, 193, 4, does not insist. Yes, please, Bespalogo's microphone. Boris Bespali, please, your microphone is on. No, no, no, no, no. He'll tell you. It's on, but you probably weren't there, Boris Yakovitch. No, no, your microphone's on fire right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u266	Oh, thank you. It's a 258 amendment. We had a committee on local construction and self-government from the city of Kalucha. [[Ivano-Frankiv region]] There were very heated discussions on the issue of boundaries. And in this city that's been put into quite difficult conditions, reconstructed in Kalucha, it's a magnetic combination. He had not been present before, so perhaps these interests were not taken into account, that is, he was in a reconstruction. The rejection of the Magnetic Group is code 8104, 50 percent. I think we can agree with the committee and the working group in that part that 50 percent is probably too much, but because in the whole world there are safety nets, and we can't give preference here to one, even though a friendly country like China, and we should take into account our Kalusian combo, there's an offer to agree on 20, at least 10 percent, but not zero. So I'm asking you to back it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u267	True, this is the third book, and once again Rudzikowski here is the revision to the second book. Does he insist? I won't do it for you. Your many amendments are in the second book. If he insists on any of them, we will discuss it. Please, it's Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u268	Adam Ivanovich, we have a part of it -- tires, pneumatic tyres, starting with 176 revisions. So I have some suggestions here. 176 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u269	Please, let's do 176 corrections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u270	Adam Ivanovich, there is a supply of tyres. 176 revisions. Set the value of 10 percent. This will still give us an opportunity to protect the Ukrainian manufacturer somehow. We have two powerful factories in Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk and White Church. If we act the way we now do, and we're talking about what the agreed positions are, we're going to end production in Ukraine in part of the factories with the adoption of this law. I'm convinced that if you take it as it is, it's our factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u271	But this is a return to the first book. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u272	I can comment. Mr. Rudzkowski here had a bit of a problem. Why? Because the committee decided not to put up 10 percent, but 15 percent, that is, even more than you suggested. In addition, we agreed to set a fixed duty — not less than 5 euros per tyre. I mean, to protect our manufacturer. That's why the committee has made decisions that are more positive than you suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u273	Yes, do you agree, Mikola Mikolaiovich, if 15%? You're filming, aren't you? Second of all, no warning, no second of all? No, it doesn't. Third? It doesn't. Is it? Boris Bespali, please. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u274	Yes, thank you. I apologize that maybe in the second book, in the second book, I argued that 258 amendments are for magnetism, for protecting the Kalusian Magnificent. So I didn't have much left. I'm basically agreeing with the proposal of the conciliatory group and the committee: don't set it at 50%, as was immediately suggested. For a discount, at least a discount rate, at least 10%. Otherwise, this business, which has just been reconstructed, which has not yet been actively entered into the market, will never enter it. And I would like to inform you that this problem is being realized, not only in the Frankowsk region, and in Kaluchi, and in the Self-Government Committee, but also in the faction series. Here come colleagues from other factions, and there is doubt that, for example, the People’s Party will support this issue. So I think 10% of the premium could be agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u275	The committee supports this position?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u276	We have considered this issue separately. In fact, there is a magnetic manufacturer in Ukraine and it probably would have made sense to put a bet. But you weren't in the meetings, and we put what we had. So we won't mind if we stand there 5 or 10%. But there may be agreements and arrangements on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u277	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to Mr. Bespalogo's first installment. At the bet he offers zeros. And at the full rate, 50th is the full rate for countries with which there is no agreement on the most supportive regime. There is such a deal with China. I mean, it doesn't make any sense at all to talk about setting any bets. More than that, the consumption of magnesium for our industry is provided by less than 20 percent of national production. Do we want to put all the processing industries in place? As far as China is concerned. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg of you, in cases of mass imports. which threatens Ukraine's economic security, there is a special Act on Measures to Prevent Massive Imports, which, on the basis of the submission, including the Kalush factory, the Ministry of Economics can open a special case, set a compensatory duty. Ask Mr. Dashutin if he's in the hall. We were just discussing today when we put 43% of the compensatory duty on compressors. And that's in your hands. Please contact Mineconomy in such cases and we will protect the national manufacturer. But by anti-dumping, compensatory duty and quota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u279	Boris Yakovich, microphone. You're offering not 50, you're offering 10%. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u280	I can actually see now that it's just a misunderstanding, but maybe it's really my fault. I still want to emphasize for the shorthand that's going on, the supply is like 10% at the premium rate, at the premium rate. So if it was written in full, it's, really, well, I'm taking it on my own, let's say, guilt, but I'm saying 10% at the tax rate. That's why what the Minister of Economics said was right, but given his position, I'm making that proposal myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u281	The committee supports such a proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u282	We discussed this issue at the Committee of Observations. So zero is probably a little bit for the magnet that's being produced in Ukraine. So if it's ten and ten, we don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote this proposal on. This is a proposal we're voting on, not talking about an amendment. What Boris Jakovic just sounded and who supports the committee. Please vote. Let's seek compromise so that we can make decisions, dear colleagues. [[13:25:02]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the amendments. Please, I'll bet you a vote. Who's in favour of coming back to the consideration of this amendment, 258, please vote. [[13:25:32]] For 239. We're back to the repairs. Now I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. We need a bill, Vladimir Kirilovich, we need to adopt a bill in general. [[13:25:53]] For 244 Correction accepted. Let's move on. What are some other amendments to the third book, dear colleagues? By the third book. Please, Vadim Gurov. Microphone, please. And the amendment number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u284	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass, Only Ukraine. The issue that we are currently considering is one of the most serious issues. It's like holding a bird and not letting go, but not choking. That is to say, no unnecessary imports into the country, but, on the other hand, progress needs to be made in technical terms. I don't know why, for my own sake, but we've missed the bulldozer technology for the career development of the mining and metallurgical complex. We agreed with the Ministry and the Committee on this issue. I therefore ask that this question be taken into account. They know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u285	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u286	It's about an adjustment to the Fever, right? But please tell me what number of this amendment? Please state the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u287	Gurov's microphone, please. Well, please find her number, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u288	It's 463 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u289	What volume?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u290	463 Amendment, Volume 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u291	This is the fourth one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u292	Well, I don't have any numbers here, lots of volumes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u293	Yeah, amendment 463, volume four. We'll get to her. What is the third warning? What's the amendment number? Please, Hirschfeld, microphone. And then Rudzkowski. The third volume we're looking at.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u294	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are a number of amendments that concern spring tools for agricultural machinery. In his speech, the Homutinian said that they were counted, but they were rejected according to the text. In view of what he said in his statement, I am withdrawing my amendments in a number of other positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u295	Well, Vitaly Hometic, then tell the stenographer that they're accounted for, so we don't have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u296	We've listed all of these positions for the transcript to count after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u297	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski, microphone, please. What's the volume, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u298	Dear colleagues, 320 revisions. This is about cranes on the bridge on fixed supports and some other amendments from this block. Well, I want to point out to you that if we want our machine building to go up one day, and we want to do the pottery taps, and so on, we still use a lot of steel. It's a heavy machine building. If we put four percent, as suggested here, not 12 percent, as suggested in my amendment, no one will release them in Ukraine. They will continue to drive again, and our machinery will never get back on its feet. We'll create new jobs for foreigners only. I don't think this is Parliament's position. And we, the socialists, are offering to protect Ukrainian goods. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u299	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u300	The committee on this amendment wrote -- rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u301	Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 320th, by Mikola Rudzikowski, page 637, where cranes and bridges are involved in stationary resistance. Page 637. Please vote. [[13:30:15.]] For-68 Correction not supported. What are the other warnings before 3 ago? You don't? Let's go to 4 back. What are the warnings before 4 ago? Gourmet's 463.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u302	The amendment by Deputy Gurova and Zhivago means career technology and they propose to make a zero bet on career technology that is not produced in Ukraine. I mean, it's Japanese and other techniques. The committee doesn't mind that. So we don't object.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u303	What is the correction? So it's 463. One minute! Ministry of Economics, Minister of Economics, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u304	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We don't deny it's a lot of weight cars that aren't produced in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u305	Yeah, well, then we make a decision that's agreed upon, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u306	Well, we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u307	If counted, there's no objection, we count. Oh, it's rejected. I then put to the vote Amendment 463, which is supported by the Committee and the Ministry of Economics. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u308	The committee supports this amendment. [[13:31:51]] For 209 Correction not supported. What else is the amendment? What? We're here. Who's for coming back to the 463 revision, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u309	The committee supports this proposal. [[13:32:20]] For 213
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u310	Please, Paul Kachure. What is the correction? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u311	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Correction 412, it applies to color TVs. I would like to point out that the amendment is left in the old edition of 14 percent of the import duty. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would only like the Minister of Economics to confirm his promise of giving indicative prices to the customs territory so that we don't have a dumping drop. And the second. I'd like to emphasise more because there's a lot of debate between individual factions that want a national producer and won't vote for a bill. So protecting a national manufacturer is reducing import duties by those categories of goods that are not produced in Ukraine. And if we don't vote today, we're leaving those ban duties, and so we're actually going to lose the national producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u312	No, we're not motivated yet, we'll have motive later. Please refer to amendment 412. 412 is page 821. What is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u313	This is a question for the Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u314	Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u315	Let me confirm once again the desire of the Ministry of Economics and the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics in accordance with three laws, including protection against mass imports, anti-dumping investigations, and the decision to establish compensatory duties for such cases as are referred to by Deputy Kachure. To do that, all you have to do is submit the Ukrainian manufacturer to the Ministry of Economics. Please, we are open to this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u316	Thank you. What else is the amendment? Who insists? Mikola Rudzkowski, what's the correction? Please, it's Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u317	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be very careful about the 583 amendments. What's the point? Video games that you can play with your TV. Billions. I'm still reading. Cards are playing. Electronic racing cars. And so on. I'm asking you, it's not a critical import for us. Zero rate is proposed, 20 percent. Well, we can't even bring a product that's not critical at zero. There's production in Ukraine, so that's actually going to stop part of our production. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u318	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u319	The committee didn't support this proposal, but it didn't support not because we didn't want the games to be produced in Ukraine, but because there was just no representative on the committee that would argue this position. So from a logical point of view, for example, I did not mind, but the committee recommended that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u320	Dear colleagues, amendment 583, by Mikola Rudzikowski, page 1026, is put to the vote. Vote. [[13:36:23]] For-92 The decision is not taken. What other adjustments are there? Please, Jaroslav Kenzior, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u321	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I had four amendments: 432, 435, 437, and 438. They were formed on the proposals of the management and team of the Lviv electric lamp factory Iskra. They're all accounted for, and I want to thank the Committee and the Ministry of Economics that they've carefully considered these proposals, listened to them, and I'm convinced that both leadership and the team are grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u322	Thank you. What are some further warnings about amendments?? You don't? Please prepare for the vote. For reasons we're about to be told by Black Vladimir Kirilovich and we're going to vote. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u323	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u324	Can't hear you, check your card. Oh, there she is now. Take the microphone with you, please. The card's not inserted correctly, obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u325	Dear National Deputies! The moment of truth has come, perhaps the truth of the moment. We're about to overcome the lack of work that the Supreme Council had previously done. Our main disease in Parliament is lobbyism. Lobby can be civilized, and it can be cellular and criminalized. We are now correcting the mistakes that have been made by criminalized lobbyism and we are on the broad path of civilized lobbyism. In this regard, I invite you to vote for the changes made to the customs tariff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u326	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? A second reading and, as a whole, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, registration number 7354, is put to the vote. [[13:39:30.]] For 328 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, People's Party - 36, Block Timoshenko - 38, SPU - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 9, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 10, Postfraction - 18. Please, there's a lot to write down. Three minutes, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Lebedivsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u327	Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is Bespali. I accidentally put his card in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u328	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u329	But I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the deputies, because we made an important decision -- we passed the law in the interests of all of Ukraine. And I think this is exactly the basis for adopting a group of laws to join the organization of trade. So it inspires, let's say, optimism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u330	Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u331	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u332	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u333	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, once again, I would like to state that the Communist faction did not vote in favour of this law. On what grounds? First, it opens borders for a foreign producer. These millions of our citizens will be out of a job. The domestic manufacturer will be destroyed. More than $500 million, as the Government of Nationalists and Socialists keep silent, will not be received from the budget or budget. This is a rise in prices and tariffs again. This will be on your shoulders, the well-respected electorate, to transfer the burden of large-capital conspiracy with the power of nationalists and socialists. Once again, I want to warn you that this is the destruction of a skilled workforce. This will affect local budgets because they will not receive the necessary income from local budgets. This is also the 2005 and 2006 budget. Therefore, draw conclusions: who is today defending national interests and who is killing the economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u334	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u335	Dear colleagues, allow all of you, as well as the drafters of the Law, and those who have decided to support it, to express their gratitude to the gardeners of Zaporozhye, especially the Kamensko-Dneprovi district, the producers of vegetable cans, for taking into account all their amendments. And we now know that the production of vegetables, the production of vegetable cans will be preserved in Ukraine. I also thank you on behalf of the large meat products of Zaporozhye and the Kamensko-Dneprovo region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u336	Yes, Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u337	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to work successfully on the Committees and work on all the customs tariffs that we agreed on with the producers, there would never have been such accusations against those who voted. We believe that the Law that has been passed, it will protect national interests, it will help to fill the market at normal prices with goods. But we should also be able to defend ourselves and, in principle, defend positions on the Committees so that the Ukrainian producer is protected and we have production. And the accusation that it's a hit on industry is not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u338	Yes. Dear colleagues. About what? Time's up. Dear colleagues, calm down. You've signed up, three minutes, everyone's on. Now let's go to the chapter. What, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Calm down. What's he gonna do? Well, we didn't support it. The Supreme Council didn't support it. So what can I do? Let's work. Yes. Later, later, wait. Well, dear colleagues, please. Don't push. A section to return to previously unsupported issues is being considered. Please. Well, you can't go on forever. Let's do it again, but not now. Wait a minute. This is a draft law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of legislation to the requirements of the multilateral agreement on trade aspects of the intellectual property rights of WTO. Yes. Vladimir Demyohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u339	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 23 March this year, reviewed draft law No. 7032 and decided to submit a second reading proposal to the Supreme Council for consideration. Well, as you know, in the 31st ballot, on 31 March, the bill did not receive the required number of votes and was considered rejected under the Supreme Council Rules. In view of the fact that the bill is intended to legislativeize Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization and the appeal of the Prime Minister, the Committee has reconsidered and proposes to include the bill in the section “Returning to previously unsupported issues”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u340	Dear colleagues, the motion for a committee to return to the draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation to the requirements of a bilateral agreement on trade in rights and non-intellectual property is put to the vote." to consider it in a second reading. Bill number is 7032. Please vote. [[13:47:02]] For 241 We went back to reviewing this bill. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich. You can do it in factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 76, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 4, National Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 34, SPU - 5, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 19, Party "Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, non-fractional - 14. By the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u341	Dear colleagues, given that this bill has already reported 31 numbers in the Supreme Council, I would like to reiterate that when we consider preparing for the second reading, we have considered almost all the amendments except: Amendment No. 2, Amendment No. 14, Amendment No. 14, Amendment No. 15 of the People's Deputies of Majko and Amendment No. 16 of the People's Deputies of Szchenka. I propose to put the amendment to the vote and to vote on the bill on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u342	Yeshchenka's microphone, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u343	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Fucking Communist faction. I've been on the phone a number of times. And once again, I want to say that the electorate has listened to us that this law has been put to 10 votes in the Supreme Council. This is a direct violation of the rights of our domestic producers. There are observations that we've given, there are observations and conclusions from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. But all these remarks are not included in this law, including the first amendment, the second amendment that was made. And she insists on deleting chapter one. The Expert Office also insists on this. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u344	Amendment number two shall be put to the vote. The authors are the National Deputies of Yeshchenko and Majko. [[13:49:26]] For-96 Correction not accepted. Amendment 14. Amendment of 14th Volodymyr Yeshchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u345	Fucking Communist faction. I'm once again calling the attention of the session hall, the national MPs, to the fact that what is being done today is the demands of the business structures of the United States. There's a lobbying to destroy our native producer. I insist once again that my amendment be voted on, and I warn the voters and all those who have approached our faction, the Communists, that our faction will not uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u346	The voting shall be amended as number 14. The author is the national deputy, Yeshchenko. [[13:50:41]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Now it's Amendment 15. Hello, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u347	I understand that the amendment is a waste of time, but what I'd like to say is that we've lost the most profitable kind of activity is disks that have a profitability of up to 1,000 percent. We're wanted in this market. I will not ask for a vote, but I would like every MP to know with what. He says he's destroying Ukraine. You don't have to vote, it's a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u348	Yes, the 16th Amendment of Eshchenka. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u349	Dear voters! Fucking Communist faction. During its consideration and adoption, the bill was based on political necessity, the so - called majority of the adoption of the bill. This is taking into account a visit by President Yashchenk of Ukraine to the United States. I remember this moment when the bill was first passed through the Supreme Council. We still insisted on rejecting this law. But once again, I remind our voters that only 90 national deputies, including the entire Communist faction, voted in favour of this bill. We will not support this bill and we propose not to vote for it. I insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u350	The vote is amended as number 16, the author is the national deputy, Yeshchenko. [[13:52:42]] For-69 Decision taken. No, I'm sorry. The decision is not taken. Yes, we voted on all the amendments. Now we have a draft decision on inadmissibility. Yuri Carmazin, please. Carmazin has the right to substantiate his draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u351	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. At the request of my friends, I will not say anything about the Prime Minister, but I would like to ask them all to read the bills, read our laws and, in particular, the Constitution and respect it. That would be very good. I believe that this draft does not meet the requirements of articles 19, 62, 85, 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the relevant provisions of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Property Act, articles 11 and 12 of the Customs Code, part two of article 3.5. 1 of the Supreme Council Rules I'm drawing your attention, Ukrainian National Deputys, if they don't believe me as an expert, let them read the observations not only by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, but also by the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please read. It states that it is noted that the existing practice of unwarranted introduction in the Criminal Code of competing norms, both in terms of the composition of the crime and the nature of their sanctions, does not take into account the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In any case, it is possible to exclude the proposed draft to violate the requirements of article 62 of the Constitution, such as confiscation and destruction of disks, raw materials and equipment, including the property of third parties not found guilty of the crime, the issue of the destruction of smuggled disks for laser reading systems, equipment or raw materials for their production, should be decided in accordance with article 81 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[i.e. anyone can remove this property]] So, honourable national MPs, I'm asking the question that from the provisions of draft articles 7 and 9, which are devoted to the removal of disks for laser reading systems, matrixes produced in violation of the requirements of this bill, raw materials and equipment for their production, pending the resolution of matters in court, there is no adequate conclusion of the legal mechanism in the context of compliance with the provisions of article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the provisions of the Civil Code, the Ukrainian Property Act. There are no time limits on the use of special measures of influence. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you and I to take a quality and serious document to see which committee has changed today, the Economic Policy Committee has been looking at this. Where are the findings of the committee responsible for changing the Criminal Code to the Committee on Law Enforcement? Where the Committee on Legal Policy concludes. Why? Who do you want to report to right now? But let's bring in the law, do the law, and report to your masters that we have fulfilled your requirements. Well, do it humanly. That's why I'm going to ask the question of inadmissibility and no way under this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u352	Dear colleagues, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the organization of operations related to production, exports, imports of disks for laser reading systems, equipment and raw materials for their production, registered number 7032 of 17.03. In 2005. Number 7032/p1. It's about inadmissibility. [[13:57:09]] For-88 The decision is not taken. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 5, People's Party - 3, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 5, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, SDP (o) - 12, Democratic Ukraine, "One Ukraine", Party "Industrials, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine", Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 1. Thus, honourable colleagues are put to the vote by a motion for adoption in the second reading and in general as the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for the implementation of legislation to the requirements of the Multilateral Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) SOT), registration number 7032. [[13:58:10]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Take it easy. For 215, no decision is taken. In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 77, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 31, Block Timoshenko - 36, SPU - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 10, SDP (o) - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "One Ukraine" - 17, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, Postfraction - 9. The bill is thus rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please. Calm down. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Cultures is announced for consideration. We need, dear fellows, to return to this issue. Yeah? That's why I'm voting, please. What's wrong? I'm voting for a return to consideration, dear colleagues. Please. We just voted on the previous decision you're talking about. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A motion for a return to the question is put to the vote. Yesterday, the Conciliation Council made such a decision. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Cultures. Registration numbers 5200, 5200-1, 5200-2. [[14:00:09]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 77, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, People's Party - 24, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPI - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 8, SDPU(o) -0, "Democratic Ukraine" -0, "One Ukraine" 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" -10, Postfaction -10. Just a minute. Just a minute. We continue our work for 15 minutes because we need them to speak for reasons. Please write it down for three minutes. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u353	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I am very pleased that Parliament has taken the right position and has opposed the law that directly damages the interests of the people of Ukraine and the State of Ukraine. We would lose our jobs because this law lobbies the export of raw materials and compels Ukraine to import foreign products. I know it was a basic requirement to enter the S.O.T. This law is one of the laws that implements the strategy of entering into SOT. And I am very pleased that we have taken the right, State position to protect the interests of the State and people of Ukraine. I know that. The MPs, the authors of those bills, said that these were the requirements of the International Monetary Fund. And I am very pleased that Parliament today has expressed its attitude towards the sudden intervention in our internal affairs: “We do not need to dictate how we live, how we work and how we earn money for life.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u354	Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u355	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I would like us to calm down and make a sober assessment of the situation. Two bills that really connect our producer. Well, remember, we had seven factories that produced laser discs. Well, remember the situation, we went to a meeting with the demands we started putting out. Of these 7, we've left one virtually out of business. We're moving on today. We want to destroy the only factory that is now practically producing laser discs. As far as seeds are concerned. We realize that it's six years, you can get the land out of the merchandise after the sunflower is planted. We are well aware of the situation today in the external markets. Therefore, until we put our own producer as an icon and begin to pray on it, we will never fail to fill our budget, we will never resolve pension issues, we will solve employment issues. Let's finally figure out that our jobs are our nation, this is our producer. That's what we need to be focused on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u356	Constantinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u357	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Constantinov, Ulya Timoshenko Block. I, too, am happy to support a domestic producer. But there's the other side and there's very little talk on the other side. And the consumer, and the consumer. How do we view it? Comrade Mother said, laser discs. I'm into laser discs, too. But when he said 1,000 percent of the money. Who buys these discs at 1000 percent? Why do we not raise these questions? I therefore believe that the issues in the complex need to be addressed. Each producer is behind no less than the number of consumers and if we do not include competition mechanisms to reduce the cost of lowering the price, this will be the real protection of the interests of the whole people, not just individual lobbying enterprises, and lobbying businesses and other activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u358	Thank you. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u359	I'm short. Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It is a great request to vote on the changes to today’s order and to vote again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, laws prohibiting the privatization of strategic objects. Let's all take a quick look at them at 4:00. Please, let's make this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u360	Let's figure out when we're free, 16 o'clock. But there are government bills in turn. We can't do that. I am. Dear colleagues, in consideration. May I have your attention, please? We are now moving on to a day-to-day and short-circuit decision. We continued our work for 15 minutes, and I announced it, according to the Rules. We've made decisions, Your Honor, and we've incorporated two laws into the order of the day. This is Act 7628 on the characteristics of discharge from the position of persons who combine the mandate of a national deputy with other activities and, accordingly, the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the requirements regarding the incompatibility of the status of a national deputy with other activities. There was a vote, we accepted it, and we included it in the agenda in this chapter. Please, very briefly. And then let's define a decision to be able to consider a government bill. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u361	Igor Shurma, faction of the United States Social Democratic Party. In recent times, the practice of combining the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy with other types of activity has become widespread, and the rules of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine have been severely violated. In particular 78, 79th, 84th, 120th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukrainian Law "On the Status of People's Deputies", Ukrainian Law "For State Service", Ukrainian Law "For Corruption". For the time being, all the people on this poster who took an oath of allegiance to the Constitution are vicious violators. We're proposing a release bill. It lies in the fact that in the case of a person who, during 15 calendar days, unlawfully combines the mandate of a national deputy with other types of activities in office, the appointment of which is made by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers without the voluntary establishment of a national deputy, the decision to release that person from office shall be made by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers accordingly. I don't think I'm going to vote for this bill because everyone wants to put a stop to it. So I think we can vote today as a whole. I saved time to go to the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u362	Well, please, let's do it the second way. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u363	The Second Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on ensuring compliance with the requirements on the non-compliance of the status of the People's Deputies with other activities. You know, your colleagues, under no regime that went back in time, 30 people's deputies didn't go down that low morally to write a statement at the Secretariat about getting a vacation, getting compensation for their vacations, using all the material benefits that the national deputy has. There's no financial basis here. If we vote, we will save 150,000 dollars each month for the budget of the Supreme Council. The bill provides for amendments to article 3, which states that a person appointed to a position that is incompatible with a parliamentary mandate is allowed to perform duties under such a position not earlier than the day of termination in the established order of the mandate of the national deputy. And the bill provides for another rule: the guarantees of labour rights after the end of parliamentary powers, provided for in chapter 4, are not extended to the former national deputy, whose mandate has been suspended on time by court decision in the event of non-compliance with the requirement for non-conformity of the parliamentary mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u364	Dear colleagues, the bill is quite clear that there is a need to implement the Constitution. We have come from a good life to consider such an offer. That's why I'm going to put you to the vote and you're going to vote. It is on the basis of Bill 7628: "On the specialities of discharge of persons who combine the mandate of a national MP with other activities." [[14:10:13]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 28, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 8, SDPU - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Only Ukraine - 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic initiatives - 7, Postfraction - 6 The draft Law, registration number 7,700, amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine (to ensure compliance with the requirements concerning the non-compliance of the status of the national deputy with other activities) is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:11:09]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -2, communists -55, Ukraine -49, People's Party -35, Yulia Block Timoshenko -2, SPU -0, Ukrainian People's Party -5, SDPU - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -12, Democratic Ukraine -20, Ukraine -0, Democratic Initiatives -8, non-fractional -7. With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u365	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Questions need to be discussed in accordance with the Rules and in accordance with the Constitution. I signed up, didn't get a word. In accordance with the Constitution, it is absolutely correct, but it is written, article 81: "In the event of non-compliance with other activities, the authority of the national deputy shall be suspended on the basis of the law of the court." What is our solution? We have a way out of here. We refer to the President as the guarantor of the Constitution, to stop the violation of the Constitution, the first of which is, and to guarantee. The other one. We refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the guarantor here of the implementation of our Rules, as well. The guarantor of the Constitution, stop counting wages, vacations, everything else. The salary, it's for what's earned, for acting as a deputy. If he was a minister, he did not serve as a deputy. That's it. This is the way out of this situation,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u366	Dear colleagues, the solution to this situation is to force us to comply with the Constitution. And now there was a proposal for the implementation of the Constitution. You have not supported or found someone else to blame. Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u367	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u368	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u369	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, now by vote, the Supreme Council has clearly answered many of the questions that concern you: Who should be responsible for everything that is going on in Ukraine? At the request of the United States of America, laser disks and, say, oil are asked. In this case, representatives, namely those in power, are voting, i.e. the authorities of nationalists and socialists, including in the Supreme Council. Furthermore, corruption today devours society and co-operation in power -- this is the path to corruption, this is the path to bribery, this is the way to the distribution of material goods, this is the way, in fact, another skin from the people of Ukraine. In this situation, once again, nationalists and socialists from the Government do not vote in favour of implementing the Constitution. That's why we're saying that an independent type of economy that's formed in Ukraine leads to a dependent policy
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u370	Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u371	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, we are all ashamed to see that the overlord MPs of the factions, knowing that there are no funds available today for the treatment of the sick in Ukraine, that medical arrangements, educational institutions are being cut short, and that they, without working in Parliament, are being used shamelessly, they are being used, they are being paid, they are using benefits, and they are taking huge amounts of money out of the state budget, contrary to the Constitution. So we're making an offer: to return after a lunch break, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and "Regions", the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" calls: to return today, to vote. And I think the MPs are gonna get together and at 16 o'clock they're gonna come back to that question, and they're gonna support, vote, and we're gonna put a dot forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-23-m0.u372	Dear colleagues, let me put it this way, I propose a proposal, but on one condition that we stop the blockade and consider government bills. I will now put to the vote a motion for a return to these bills. If we don't come back, one minute, if we don't come back, then I'd like to keep working on the schedule. I'm voting for a return to Bill 7628. Please vote. [[14:16:04]] For 209 We're not back, 209 in favor. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 49, People's Party - 36, BUT - 2, SPI - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "One Ukraine" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 8, "Afterfraction - 8. I am now voting for a return to the bill, registration number 7,700. Please vote. [[14:16:47]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Thus, honourable colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o'clock we'll continue to review the bill according to the schedule of meetings.
