ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:09]] They registered in the 418 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Olegovich and Anatoly Ivanovich, who were 45 years old. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them success and good health. Honourable National Deputies, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on March 1, 2005. 15 issues of the agenda - 15 bills and one draft decree - have been discussed. As a result of the discussion: Three laws were passed, three bills were adopted in the first reading on a basis, eight bills were rejected, one bill was withdrawn, one was passed. Now for the announcements, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the formation of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Gaddaecki Leonid Mikolaiovich as part of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbachev Viktor Sergiyovich, from the MP's "Soyuz" and his membership in the Democratic Ukraine Group. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the appointment of the Director General of the National Historical and Ethnographic Reserve “Pereaslav” to Sikorski’s title “The Hero of Ukraine”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. It's about assigning the director of the Pereaslav Reserve to Sikorski called "The Hero of Ukraine." [[10:07:36]] For 113 Request not supported. Galina HARMASH to the President of Ukraine on the activation of the criminal investigation into the creation of fictitious enterprises. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:03]] For-49 Request not supported. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General, the Chief of Public Service, for the purpose of bringing officials of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to justice in connection with a two - year sabotage of the letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of possible illegal actions by the chief consultant of the secretariat of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of combating organized crime and corruption and at the same time an assistant consultant to the National Deputy on the social principles of Barnacsky and the use of appropriate responses. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the renovation of the Garrison’s House of Officers in the village of Lake Zitomir district of the Zitomir region. María MARKUS to the Prime Minister on the allocation of subsidies provided for in the 2005 State Budget and the additional allocation of funds to the Zacarpathian Region for the removal of citizens from conflict zones and compensation for flood damage. Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister on the need to organize the training of a junior agricultural specialist. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service for Violations of Actual Legislation by the Director of the Department of Capital Construction and Administration of the Funds of the Ministry of Defence. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister for the non-refoulement of the “Rivnenska AES” manufacturing plant of the rehabilitation and health complex for nuclear personnel. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the settlement of the financial and economic situation around the “Novozdile factory fungicides” of the closed association “Ukrainian Industrial Company Dobromil”. Mr. Alexander Feldman to the Prime Minister for the organization of the pension scheme for science and technology workers. Victor THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the verification of the legality of privatization and the fulfilment of the terms of the contract for the operation of the Open Shareholder Society of the “Bikowska skloszavod” of the Romanov region of the Žitomir region. Sergija Burjaka to the Prime Minister on the need for the Government budget for 2005 to provide funding for the development of AN-148. Anatolysa OF RACHANCIA to the Prime Minister on the impossibility of raising tariffs on utility services for heat transmissions before approval of the mechanism to compensate for the difference in economically sound production costs. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for the State Support of the Herson College of Name Eugene Malanuk. [[TURNING, TARASUK, MILK, WOMEN, AND OTHERS.]] Omelana PARUBKA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of benefits to cultural workers, retired medical workers who live and work in rural areas. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister for the grant of the village of the miners of Smolina Kirovogradska oblast, in which the mining enterprise is located. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister for the opening of a simplified crossing point across the Ukrainian-Slovak state border in the village of Mali Selmenci Zacarpatski. Peter DIMINSKI to the Prime Minister on matters related to the preparation of arrangements for the celebration of 150 years from the date of John Frank’s birth. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister for the establishment of a clearly simplified small business entity tax system in the state. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy obligations regarding State support and financing for coal enterprises in the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister on the decision of the Yagotin City Council of Kyiv Region on the impossibility of retraining the “Gurtsy – Medical” complex under the temporary placement of refugees and the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the complex. Mr Mikli HARPOČKI to the Prime Minister for the extension of the term of the licence of a society with limited liability for geological research and industrial exploitation of the Verguni lineage. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister for the abuse of officials in the process of privatizing House No.4d on Hotinska Street in Chernivka. Mr. Tamara, Prime Minister for Amendments to Cabinet of Ministers Decree No.1436 on the inclusion of teachers of vocational technical schools in the list of teachers. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister on the reform of housing and utilities and the establishment of fair tariffs on municipal services. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister on the inter-budget relations between the State budget and the budget of the city of Feodosia. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister on the repayment of the debt on the payroll of the employees of the state-owned company Atomspecbud. Alexander MOROZOVA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the integrity of the historic architectural and museum complex of the Klovsky Palace. Mr. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of housing programmes for the Chernobyl population. ROBERT to the Prime Minister for the acquisition of a computer Tomograph for the Institute of Oncology of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Mr Mikoli MELNIKA to the Prime Minister on the appropriateness of amending the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister on the unjustified increase in tariffs on utilities in the cities of Yenakiyev and Ždanovka in the Donetsk region. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister on the elimination of the effects of submerging the village of North and other microregions of the city of Nicopol. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the situation surrounding the transfer of Clinic No. 3 to the village of New City of Kirovgrad for the balance of the village council. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister for granting subsidies from the State budget to repay the debt owed to the Biloczerk Trolebus Authority for the transport of benefits to citizens. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister for assisting residents of the village of Korsuny Donetsk region in resolving domestic issues. Anatolia KUKOBI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, on the allocation of subsidies from the State budget for the construction and acquisition of housing for military personnel and members of their families. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister on the socio-economic protection of the population living in the area around the Zaporez nuclear power station. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for the improper state regulation of the system and waste collection and disposal, improvement of environmental security, the introduction to the law of the tasks and directions of the State Company for the disposal of secondary raw materials “Ucreconomy”. Vladimir SIMONOVA to the Prime Minister on the prohibition of the construction of the Orthodox Church of UPC in the town of Berezhana Ternopil district. ALLY ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Vladimir PETROVA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of production in the Moyov sugar plant of Winnitsk. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, on the construction and consolidation of a dam on the Tis River in the city of the Zakartat region. FIXA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice on the existence or absence of corruption in oil re-exports and the involvement of members of the Government and the National Deputies. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister for life support and socio-occupational services to the population of the Shiroki district of Dnipropetrov region, which is in the area of influence of Crevice mining and enrichment combinations. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister on the order and the size of the collection payment for compulsory state pension insurance for fixed agricultural tax payers. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the settlement of the transfer of the Housing Fund to the balance sheet of the Grebinkov Kombinata of the Municipal Enterprises of the Poltavian Region. Anatolya IOCROUSOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the non-infringement of the interests of the State through the artificial bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Society, the TV plant “Slavutic”. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister on political repression by the State Tax Inspectorate in the Galician district of Lvova against participants in the orange revolution. VALLERY TO THE PREMINARY, THE SECRETARY OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL AND THE DEFINITIVE RESPONSES TO THE DEPUTY'S QUESTIONS ABOUT THE INQUIRY OF THE RUSSIAN PARTY IN BUILDING THE DAMAGE BY THE ISLAND OF TUSLA'S FRIENDSHIP, COOPERATION AND PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN Ukraine AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Minister of Internal Affairs on the order of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to transfer the special division “Sokil” to the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is in contravention of the law “On the organizational and legal basis of the fight against organized crime”. Vasil Sirenka to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Security and Defence Council, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office for Law Violations during a commercial tender for the sale of a package of shares of the Open Shareholder Society Lysicansknafttoorgsynthesis. MICILI NOČENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the write-offs on parliamentary appeals for the elimination of pesticides that are not suitable for use in the Mid-Budd district of Sumsk. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister on the need for the development of national natural uranium reserves. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to Deputy Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka on the preservation of the former school premises in the village of Gornostievka in the region of Czernigiv Region. Jury BOJKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenka on media patronage of some Ukrainian media outlets over Donetsk, Lugansk and the Republic of Crimea. Anatoly by ORJAKOVSKI to Vice-Prime Minister Mikolio Tomenka, Kiev City Head, for the creation of proper living conditions for elderly citizens of Kiev. Peter SABASHUCA and Sergey SOVOLEVA to the Attorney General for criminal offences against persons guilty of providing inadvertent information on electoral lists of 76, 77, 78, 79 territorial constituencies of the Zaporozky region. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service regarding the verification of information published in the media by the Head of the Lviv District Administration, Peter Olijnik, regarding the meeting organized by representatives of the Lviv district headquarters of “Our Ukraine” 30,000 hard-core certificates during the election of the President of Ukraine and the use of measures to bring the guilty to justice. Alexia MALINOVSKIY to the Attorney General for violating the requirements of the Land Code when contracting land leases between the Cherkasian City Council and the Internaft Society with limited responsibility and inciting officials to be held accountable. Valery MASHURI to the Attorney General on the legality of the ruling of the Kyiv Master Court, which is obliged by the National Television and Radio Council to issue a license for the use of the 48th TV channel in Kiev with limited responsibility. LUKJANENKA’S lion to the Attorney General for publication in the Internet publication “The Watcher ” of Journalist Investigations by the Head of the Kalenski State Customs Service. VITALY SIBKA to the Attorney General on the falsification of Lyczak’s medical documents. Mr. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney-General for investigating the legality of the management of the Rakovich Rural Council, the representatives of the Radomisl district education administration and the Radomisl boarding school, as well as the law enforcement authorities of the Žitomir region for the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of young children. Alexander BARANIVSKI to the Attorney General on the violation of the legal rights and interests of the private stockholders’ working group “The firm ‘Ukrpromspecbud’” for the primary acquisition of company shares. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General for the investigation of a crime involving a citizen of Gnatuk, a trusted person during the election campaign of the President of Ukraine. To the Attorney General, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for violations of legislation, ineffective use of budgetary resources by former heads of the Ministry of Defence in the exchange of military property in Kiev for homes of military personnel, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of dwellings assigned to the military. LUKJANENKA left to the Attorney-General for the protection of the National Hortica Reserve from the illegal actions of the Zaporez City Council. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the situation that took place in the Quartz’s crematory career. Ms. Mashuri's Valery to the Attorney-General on violations of the law of law by the Attorney-General concerning the television channel “NTN”. Valery MARTINOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, on the verification of the legality of the alienation of property of the state property of the Sevastopol State Enterprise “Atlantic”. Alexander HUDIM to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service for the corruption of the Lviv city head of Bunjak. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on the abuse of the office of officials of the Ministry of Defence. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for delaying the prosecution of the Krulevetsky district of Sumskie in the violation of a criminal case against the citizens involved in the looting of the rabbit’s combination of bread products. Peter DIMINSKI to the Attorney General on the legality of the procedure for the implementation of the sanctions procedure at the company of the Open Shareholder Association “Gallol” of the town of Drogobic Lviv district. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney General, a Kiev City head, on the legality of building a high-rise residential building in the city of Kyiv, 39th Street. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney-General for ill-treatment of citizens' complaints by the Attorney-General's Office. Mr. Mikhail POLANČIČICH to the Attorney General regarding the wrongful actions of the Senior Prosecutor’s Office of Sevastopol Grigorovitch regarding the cessation of a criminal case. The Tetian Dried to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for violations of the rights and guarantees of the natural person and the National Deputy of Tetjana Draha, established by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. PAUL MOWCHANA to the Attorney General regarding the illegal privatization of the building of the Petrovic Cadet Corps — a monument to the architecture of the 19th century in Poltava. Michael BAUERA to the Attorney-General for the abuse of officials in the process of privatizing the Zastavanski Kombekrma factory in the Cherniewec region. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General on corruption in private clinics working in the field of reproductive medicine. Igora ŠURMI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service for Information Review, distributed to the media by the People's Deputy Alexander Goodima, on the involvement of him with $1 billion in sponsoring money to pay for the participation of people in the “orange revolution” during the election of the President of Ukraine and on the legality of selling the land to him, with the subsequent receipt of 250,000 dollars. Ivana TOMIĆA to the Attorney General on the blocking of the operation of the “Stragropromburg” corporation by the employees of the internal affairs authorities and the Prosecutor's Office of the city of Kyiv and Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the crime of selling three children abroad from the Radomisl boarding school of the Žitomir Region and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. [[BOKIY, SPODARENKO, SQUARE]] Sergey BICHKOVA to the Attorney General, head of the DPA on the verification of the pressure from officials of the tax police, the State Tax Administration in the Dnipropetrov region to the entrepreneur Melnikov. Anatolya MOROZA to the Attorney General for bringing to justice the head of Melitopol's closed stockholder company Spectre of Zaporozki District for failing to comply with the decisions of the Mikhail Local Court concerning the payment of salaries to employees of the enterprise. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney General about the enforcement of legislation by the Czerka district council in the selection of hunting arrangements for the use of public organizations. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney-General on the investigation of illegal transfers to the executive committee of the Truscavetskurt City for immovable property to the closed-circuit company Truscavetskurt. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Attorney-General on the facts that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office have improperly complied with the requirements of articles 94-97, 100 of the Criminal Code. Michael DOBKINA to the Attorney General regarding the inaction of the prosecutor of Harkov Shevchenka. Anatolia Seminoga to the Attorney General for reacting to the misconduct of the Rector of Cherkas National University of Bogdan Hmelnick Kuzminsky. Vladimir NOVAK to the Attorney General about the gravity allowed by the Hmělní region’s law enforcement authorities when considering the claims made by the Petrechko family. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney General on the economic crimes of Viktor Medvedczuk and his business associates against Ukraine and its people, which were carried out for ten years under the auspices of the “Slavutic” concert. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General on the verification of the misappropriation of funds, the abuse of office to build a mother’s private residence by the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Bilocon. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney-General on the violation of citizens' rights to receive rent and wages by the Dniprovi Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Herson. Igor Schurmi and Efima FIXA to the Attorney General on suppressing freedom of speech and political persecution of the media in Ukraine. Paul RABIKINA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal activities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Office to Combat Organized Crime of the Mikolai District against the Novobus City Head, and to verify the abuse of office, the corruption of individual employees of the Novobus district government administration of the Mikolai region. Stephen HMARI to the Attorney General for the examination of the persecution of prisoners of the Cherka Correctional Colony No.62, who testified to the pressure they received during the election of the President of Ukraine and to the criminalization of the guilty. Tarasa ČORNOVILA to the Secretary of State of Ukraine regarding the practice of issuing secret decrees by the President of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Health, Head of the Herson District Public Administration for the delay in implementing the decision of the Herson District Council on the establishment of a regional municipal pharmaceutical company “Hersono-blformation”. [[MILK, BLACK VOLUME, TARASJUK, GREGOROVICH, CUBAROV AND OTHERS]] Mnh-mnh. IHYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Education and Science for the violation of the rights of trade unions by the Director of Meridian International School. Petra Pisarczuk to the Minister of Interior, the head of the Security Service for the investigation of criminal cases related to the assassination of National Deputy Peter Pisarczuk and the murder of the “Southern” Market Manager in Lviv Vladimir Seminouk. FIXA to the Minister of Education and Science on the provision of information on the dynamics of changes in the number of Russian-speaking secondary schools and preschools in Ukraine from 1998 to 2005. ANDRYA SCHOOL to the Minister of Economy and European Integration on the verification of the tender procedure carried out on 18 November 2004 by the Department of Resources for the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the minister of internal affairs on the legality of the material rewards of the former head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zacarpathian district of General Varzaba and the eradication of corruption in the police. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Internal Affairs to respond to the facts of baseless delay in criminal investigation and compensation for the damage caused by the "Herson College" by officials. [[MILK, TARASJUK, MARRIAGE, AND OTHERS. Total 15 national deputies]] MICHELLA’S COMMUNICATION to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the establishment of a special commission to investigate the activities of the crew during the execution of flight 404 on February 15, this year, and officials of the company “International Airlines of Ukraine”. Oleg BILORUS to the minister of justice for failure to execute the court’s decision by the Solomon District Court regarding the granting of accommodation to Colonel Khabarov’s reserve. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the operation of the Danube - Black Sea vessel. Istwana HYDOS to the Minister of Education and Science on the organization of the use of the names of public educational institutions in the languages of national minorities. THE GENNADY OF STANDING to the Minister of Fuel and Energy in order to provide quality energy for the inhabitants of Hust. Ms. Alexander PECLUCHENKA to the Minister of Health about violations of the rights of owners and users of weapons by medical institutions and administrations of pricing policies in the course of her registration and re-registration. NVIERA MHITARIANA to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for the revitalization of tuberculosis control measures among people deprived of their will as an integral part of the protection of human rights. TO THE Minister of Internal Affairs, Tamara Proscuratov, on ensuring the rule of law and halting long - standing mass actions aimed at undermining the authority of the Cherka National University of Bogdan Hmielnickýk. John STANDS to the Ministry of Family, Children and Youth on the socio-economic status of the Youth Guard Children’s Centre in Odessa. RAISES OF THE wealthier Ministry of Health in response to the unsatisfying response of the Ministry of Health’s chief drug lord to the request for statistical information on the prevalence of drug abuse in Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the findings of the road accident investigation by the current head of the Montenegrin State Administration, Vladislav Atrashenko, in 2004. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the purpose of non-target use of compensation payments for extended travel to individual categories of citizens by the Department of Labour and Social Protection of the Crolevetsky District State Administration of the Suma Region. a group of national deputies to the Minister of Justice on the conformity of the current legislation with the statements of the President of Ukraine aimed at joining Ukraine in NATO. [[A SHORT, A SHORT, A hare]] Eugena LAPINA to the Ministry of Health on the question of the inclusion of a professional in physical rehabilitation as a member of the hospital’s classification and standard of physical rehabilitation. THE Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Finance, for the delay in funding the State’s School Bus program. Ms. Alexander USTENKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the illegal actions of the Rector of the Ternopil Academy of National Agriculture. JOURIA BOYCA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the Cessation of Trolleybus Networks in Kiev and other megapolises of the country, the development of trams as a stage in the creation of light - rail transport. Vladimir NOVAK to the Minister of Defense for Security Infringement in Preservation and Disposal of Aircraft Ammunition at the A-3013 military warehouses. Mikhail Kosiva to the Minister of Fuel and Energy concerning compensation to the pensioners of the “Novomirgorodska” Mine for debt from the fuel. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison on the violation of human rights and trade union rights by the management of the airline “International Airlines of Ukraine”. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavski to the Minister of Education and Science on the situation with regard to the implementation of the School Bus Cabinet programme, which complicates the organisation of the educational process at the School of Education No. 4 of the city of Radomisl in the Žitomir district and in the Sosnov High School of the District of the Rhine region. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Health for the abolition of the pension for the disabled in the third group, who were injured. Ms. Vladimir JENKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the request of the Scientific Council, the Student Council, the Trade Committee of the National University of Cherkas, Bogdan Hmielnický, for the cessation of mass actions aimed at undermining the authority of the University because of his desire to release its leaders. Petra SIMONENKA to the Head of the National Bank on the legality of the stockpiling and administration of the Communist Party by the National Bank since August 26, 1991. Groups of National Deputies to the Kiev City Head on the legality of the transfer of recreational land to the Kyiv Shareholder Company Hotivski. [[BONDARENKO, ROBERT, LABED]] PAUL TILCHANA to the Head of the Poltava District State Administration for the completion of the gasification of the village of Malinovka Globin district. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of Government of the Pension Fund for the miscalculation of pensions in the city of Kirovgrad. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the State Statistical Committee to provide information on the implementation of the State Budget in January 2005. [[WATCH, SHORT, FIX]] GEORGIA PONOMARENKA to the Head of the Pension Fund on the legality of the charging from the HYDRO-ELECTRO-GROUND system for the payment and delivery of pension benefits. SLABENKA to the Prosecutor of the Volin Region for the work of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Volin Region during the election of the President of Ukraine in 2004. Alla ALEXANDROVSKA to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for not allowing the transfer to the concession of the Central Park of Culture and the rest of Gorkok's name in Kharkiv. National Deputy ANISCHUK to the Minister of Health for the Protection of the Socio-Economic Rights of People with Disabilities of the Great National War. Vladimir ONISHUKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the branch 411 of the Central Clinical Hospital of the South Operational Command, located in the city of Bilgorod of the Dniestrowski Odes region. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the budget of Zaporozhye. Mr. Jury KARMAZIN, Minister of State Security and Defence of the Council of National Security and Defence, Head of Security Service, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the inactivity of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the implementation of tariff policy mandates for heating services and the lack of control over the targeted use of budget funds by the renting company Crimécommunergo. Mr Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the terms of the VAT stock control package sales competition "Livivian Bus Plant", under the order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 21 August 2001, No 382- Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on unlawful acts of abuse of the official position of the VAT Directorate "Irva", the former Kyiv Institute of Radio Measuring Equipment" in the theft of equipment that led to the cessation of the company's work. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of Security of Ukraine on the delay and improper investigation by the law enforcement authorities of the Volin area of the murder of Major Massiev. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the cessation of the illegal privatization of the Dnipro Hotel, which is a state property and for the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal alienation schemes for the benefit of the Russian business. Thus, honourable fellow Members, 147 parliamentary inquiries have been made. In factions: "Our Ukraine" - 30, Communist faction - 42, "Regions of Ukraine" - 12, "SDPU (o) - 11, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Democratic Ukraine" - 1, "The People's Party - 3; "Socialist Party - 11; "Timoshenko Block - 14; "The Union" - 1; "Will of the People" - 1; "Centre" - 3; "Democratic Ukraine" - 10; non-fractional - 5. Let's move on to the speeches of MP groups and factions with statements, messages, queries, information. Peter Cibenko of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u2	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. As the Supreme Council of Ukraine knows, it has not been in session mode for three weeks. This time was used differently by the servants of the people. Some of our colleagues were drawn to the heat of the land, such as flying birds, some to share omrian ministerial and other official portfolios, and some to the sum of the elections redistributed property looted by the people of Ukraine. And the Communist faction decided to report to the voters at that time. The meeting of Communist MPs with Dnipropetrovska voters last week confirmed once again that the level of pensions continues to remain the most acute social problem. Why is this happening? This is because the new old political team led by President Yushchenk and Prime Minister Timoshenko, who came to power with the criticism of his predecessors in part of the unsatisfying protection of the most vulnerable population, is now criminally failing to implement the National Pension Insurance Act as of December 23, 2004. This is a bill passed by the Supreme Council and signed by the previous President on January 10, 2005. This law has decided the most acute, most challenging pension problems, namely: the basic pension for all Ukrainian citizens who have the necessary employment, is now set at the minimum subsistence rate of 332 bracelets. In each year, more than 20 for women and 25 for men are paid to a basic pension of 1 percent of the subsistence minimum. All payments that a veteran is entitled to are made as an addition to the basic pension of the top. The same was done with the shameful comparison created by the Cabinet of Ministers. Let me underline that these changes are accepted, signed. But once again, they are not exercised by the current executive authority. And the factions of "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" are doing everything they can to justify these executive actions against pensioners, veterans and disabled people. The point was that their representative, by the way, the leader of one of the Veteran organizations of the Yukhnowsky Games, called these long-awaited, long-awaited changes to the pension law foolish. This is actually the price of their pre-election pharisaicism. Before the elections, they needed the votes of pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons, and today they are ready to throw them away as useless. One more. The President of Ukraine missed the deadline for the signing of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 Government Budget, which was February 22nd, part of the repeal of article 39. This is about eliminating the imbalance in the pension insurance of military pensioners. We demand the immediate promulgation of the law. I have to remind the guarantor of the Constitution that 2005, the year of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory of Fascism and the year announced by the President of Ukraine in the year of veterans, and we will not allow anyone to behave in this way in relation to veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u3	Igor Jeremeyev from the faction of the People’s Party. Prepare Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u4	A statement of the National Party's polytradition. During his election campaign and shortly thereafter, new President Viktor Yushchenko made clear his principles of humane formation of a new power. First of all, honesty, patriotism, and professionalism. Rather, party membership is of no value. Recent presidential races have become history. But there's a revolution beginning, there's no revolution of the end. It turns out that there are people who consider themselves more moral, wise, professional than the guarantor of the Constitution, who has a personal responsibility to the Ukrainian people. They sincerely believe that participation in the work of the victorious’s election headquarters gives them the full moral right to disagree with the President’s staffing assignments. Especially the leaders of some areas. And what's interesting. This is especially true in areas where Victor Yushchenka’s electoral campaign was broken down, or in those where he won, despite the work of his headquarters. The apparent destructiveness of such a position is illustrated by the example of the same hopsy area, where, together with the efforts of former opponents and now the rulers of human fate, the President was forced, I repeat, to abandon the same candidate. The head of the district government was removed as soon as he was appointed. And the area is still powerless because the winners have never agreed on a new dignitary. It is absurd that in modern - day Ukraine, middle - school seniors, diletters, are actually claiming to be district managers. But this is not limited to district managers. The vast number of reports of true grassroots of grassroots and middle - level statesmen, their mass layoffs, are eloquently indicative of an ongoing campaign of political cleansing. Under the context of personnel changes, there is actually a illustration at the local level. Contrary to established principles, professionalism has come to the fore when dealing with personnel issues. People are released without any legal grounds. Political relevance began to change the rules of the Constitution. In this regard, the People’s Party reminds us that the new authorities should prove it wrong to choose a minority of Ukrainians by their wise and balanced policies, by careful treatment of professionals, by economic achievements, and by real growth in prosperity, but by no means by political cleansing. We express our deep concern about the campaign that was launched in the areas of removal of professionals, the personnel of civil servants. Each one is a person, carrying unique knowledge and skills, not some human material. The People’s Party insists on the process of liberation and appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u5	Yes, Anatoly Rahansky, Democratic Ukraine. Get ready for Boris Rajkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u6	Anatoly Rahansky, Epátoria constituency, Democratic Ukraine, Deputies of the Black Tribe. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues, voters, representatives of the media! By warning the descendants from the repetition of mistakes, we talk about famine, the consequences of accidents, wars, deportations of nations. But why does the government, the Ukrainian Parliament, today not hear or want to hear about the critical state of affairs at the Chernobyl nuclear station? Ukraine’s individual media are increasingly publishing material about the intentions of our president, the government of Ukraine, to fight corruption in the country. That's commendable. On the newspapers "The Voice of Ukraine", "Today", "2000", "The News", "The Mirror of Weeks", Ukrainian citizens are paying attention to the leadership of the state, the law enforcement authorities on corruption in the Chernobyl AES, in view of the delay in the construction of objects that are responsible for the security of the population of Ukraine and Europe. In addition, Ukraine’s legislation on social protection of citizens affected by disasters has not been implemented year after year by all governments of Ukraine. These people are placed under difficult living conditions. In the last five years alone, some 600,000 liquidators died prematurely in Ukraine. At the same time, Ukraine’s Social Protection Budget 2005 provides funding for this category of people for only 15 percent of what is needed. All of this indicates that there is no well - balanced, scientifically prepared strategy for coping with the consequences of the disaster. It takes immediate action to prevent the second Chernobyl that Ukraine will no longer be able to sustain. That's why we're proposing to the government, first of all, the State Committee on overcoming the consequences of the CHAS accident to turn it into an appropriate ministry, because Chernobyl's problems cannot be concentrated in the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Second, to hand over to the Ministry of Social Protection, Radiological Monitoring and Control, Energoatum, issues related to the output of CHAES, construction and operation of 30 - km objects to Ukraine. Thirdly, to provide in the Democratic Republic of Ukraine for 2005 a percentage of funding for the social protection of the Chernobyl population, to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a bill on the establishment of a Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Chernobyl issues. And to the end. For two weeks, I and Deputy Chondarenko cannot go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Minister 3 on the subject of extraordinary situations to address these important problems. But they're yesterday's colleagues, MPs! Therefore, I ask that you send my proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers and to the Committee on Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u7	Boris Rykov from the Democratic Initiatives Group. Prepare Tamara Proscorat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I, as a national MP, am a citizen of Ukraine, a loose process that is now taking place in our society. This is no longer the case for the sole prosecution of officials for political reasons. The practice of selecting and appointing political posts is, unfortunately, becoming increasingly widespread. Professionalism and personal qualities are often overlooked. The principles of working together for Ukraine's benefit with all political forces on the ground have been declared by the President of Ukraine to be completely different. The actions organized in Cherkassassa, aimed at the resignation of the Rector of the Cerkas National Institute of the name Bogdan Hmelnickah Kuzminski Anatoli Ivanović and other leaders for the election campaign Januković, can be a strong example. I want to point out that Kuzminsky is a high-level professional, a man who's done a lot for the university. He's in the hospital now, and that's the result. Little by little, the confrontation started between the college students. At this difficult time for society as a whole, executive power should not seek enemies among its own. We are a united nation, and the principle of distribution to our own and to others is unsettling. Should power be guided by revenge and rematch? Who is he, and who is a stranger to his Fatherhood? I also want to talk about morality. How can we assume responsibility to judge a person solely through the support of a candidate? Thus, true morals are, above all, insurmountable devotion to the State. In my view, the main problem now is the consolidation of society, not the separation. The highest manifestation of democracy is respect for the choice of others and it is one thing for us to build Ukraine. We're all one family, no matter who voted for who. I'm addressing the President. Dear Victor Andreevich! The "Democratic Initiatives" MP supports the criteria you have expressed for the selection of personnel -- patriotism, decency, professionalism. Please take steps to ensure this on the ground. Once again, I would like to stress the inadmissibility of State service rotation on a party basis and of any restrictions on citizens on political grounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u9	Tamara Proskuratov from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. [[united]] John Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The faction of SDPI cannot ignore these and positive developments and the problems that are now taking place in education. First of all, it attracts the attention of the public, the press, that in Ukraine the All-Ukrainian Teacher of the Year competition was launched again. I had the opportunity to be on it in Cherkas. Even though these young teachers were not educated in Barcelona, nor in Harvard, their skill, their professionalism, their devotion to their business, they may envy abroad. The faction of SDPU(o) shares the concerns of colleagues from the nomination of Foreign Literature related to the reduction of the Ministry of Education and Science hours in the curriculum for the next academic year. We share their views and feel that children need to know the best masterpieces of world literature. And when it comes to the loading of children, overcrowding them, more philosophically oriented subjects are offered, and there are no textbooks, no pedagogical staff. Shortening the hours of foreign literature will result in many teachers losing their jobs. We approve of the democratic movements that are taking place in the country, but we remind ourselves that the Constitution guarantees everyone free choice, and we need to put a stop to the fact that a few dozen overactive citizens can force the newly elected President to cancel his decree against the governors. The events at the University of Cherkas also require the intervention of law enforcement agencies. This is what we, MPs, lecturers, students at the University of Cherkas, are addressing. Dozens are hungry, but 5,000 are working, learning, but television is somehow showing only those who are hungry. Also, cases involving high school students in some schools have already required the director to release his class leaders for campaigning for Yanukovic. This is not a sign of democracy. A parliamentary appeal to the district departments of internal affairs has been made, and it would not be desirable for such cases to become mass cases for the time being. And I would also like to address the President on behalf of those 13 million who didn't support you in the election, but you and our President, and that's why we're addressing you as the guarantor of the Constitution, ensuring the right of our citizens to make their choices, to respect their choices, even if it's not for your benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u11	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u12	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. After the orange revolution, which was the logical outcome of the "For Ukraine Without Cuchmi" and "Rise Ukraine!" Ukrainian society and the world community with hope and faith in the victory in Ukraine of democracy see the new Ukrainian authorities clearing out the "augii stables" of the bushland and building the rule of law. One of the cornerstones of building such a state is that the world sees the trial of the murder of journalist George Gongadze. Yesterday, President Viktor Yushchenko reported the murder and arrest of Gongadze's killers. On the line of discovery of the buyers and the organizers of the murder. However, it cannot be overlooked that the President's efforts to bring the Gongadze case to a legal conclusion are being met by the Office of the Attorney-General's incomprehensible position. Strangely enough, the prosecution continues to ignore the most evidentiary evidence of a float with the audio recordings of Major Melnick from the office of ex-President Leonid Kuchma. Henprosecutor ignores several U.S. FBI film experts who acknowledge them as credible and insist on the truthfulness of the post-Kummian expertise in Ukraine. The evidence of the authenticity of the conversations in Kuchma’s office given to the parliamentary commission of inquiry by national deputies — Boris Olijnik, Ivan Drach, Alexander Turchinov, Taras Cnervil, and other figures of these records — is being defied. The D.A. refuses to re-expert the film. By the way, there's a decision of the Supreme Council that just needs to be implemented. Nor can it be considered normal that the report of the interim commission of inquiry has not yet been heard in the Supreme Council. The faction of socialists sees such a situation as unacceptable. We believe that the re-experts of Major Melnick's films in Ukraine are also necessary because they contain enormous evidence of the crimes of the Kuchma regime, the suppression of freedom and democracy, the origin and development of a system of corruption, human policy and the system of the moral order of society by the authorities. The murder of Georgia Gongadze is to be a case of the theft of the bush. The faction of socialists also calls for a legal conclusion to the case of Mikola Melnicken’s delegation to the Supreme Council. The decision of the European Court of Justice on this matter must be implemented. The Ministry of Justice should appeal to Eurosud for the administration of Kuchma and to the Supreme Court and the Central Electoral Commission to ensure, on the basis of the decision of the Strasbourg Court, that we come to our ranks of human honour and conscience, Mikola Ivanovich Melnicken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u13	Bogdan Hubsky, the "One Ukraine" faction, has a word for it. Get Valentine's Teeth ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! On January 1st of this year, the Ukrainian Act on Compulsory Insurance of Vehicles became effective. From April 1, a driver who has no insurance policy is obliged to pay a fine. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party insists on the need to cancel the mandatory insurance of transport vehicles. How can insurance policies be paid at today’s minimum wage and minimum pension? Restricting yourself and your family to life’s necessities, pensioners, and disabled persons will not help, nor will they have to break the law, or refuse to use a car. Let me give you just a few examples. A veteran from the village of Krupské in Cherkaszczina - Viktor Sergiyyovich Kalina: "Started working as a tractor driver in 1949, the main income is now a pension of 284 bracelets." He already has an old light car. "I became familiar with the rules for the insurance of my own transportation of citizens. See, these fights won't hold up my family budget." And here are the lines from Nina Gabriel's letter to Holosi, a disabled child of the third group in the city of Złotonosza: "Last year, the car received the extra "Tavria", this year carried the operation, and I'm just learning to walk with crutches. You can see for yourself the cost of a family’s pension of only 284 bracelets, and you can pay for car insurance again. I think there are more important things: improving medical care, at least for a category like me." And so many letters in and out of thousands and thousands of all the regions of Ukraine. Where do these people get the money? At what cost should the insurance policy be paid by a disabled person, a veteran, a breadwinner of a large family? There is no answer to that question. I urge all of us national deputies to simply put themselves in the place of these people who are actually deprived of the right to use their property. The state simply has no moral right to force citizens to pay insurance policies until their standard of living has been substantially improved. Which one of us wants to forcely drag on those underfunded on that last scroll for the benefit of insurance companies? I don't want to. We passed the Law prematurely. We have to admit this mistake and correct it. After all, the one who opposes it is actually speaking against the Ukrainians. Nothing can justify a course toward a conscious deterioration of the material and spiritual condition of the nation. That's why the faction of the "One Ukraine" party calls for the abolition of mandatory insurance for transport vehicles. We've already passed the necessary bill. Disrespecting the interests of a simple man, a Ukrainian citizen we have no right to -- that's our principle position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u15	Valentin Zubov, from the Julia Timoshenko Faction to prepare Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u16	Valentin Zubov, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. The Honorable Presidency, the distinguished national MPs, the honourable voters. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko authorized me to make a statement from the faction of the following content. Despite the active opposition and condemnation of the vast majority of the people of Ukraine by the efforts of some political forces in Ukraine to use the idea of secessionism for further pressure on power and social opinion, today not only has not been halted, but propaganda and organizational action, aimed at the realization of ideas of secessionism in the southern regions of our country, has been intensified. That is why the faction of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko requires the President of Ukraine, the Government, the Attorney General of Ukraine to act decisively to preserve the social calm and territorial integrity of the state. The faction demands that the former heads of state administrations of the Donetsk, Kharkiv and Lugansk regions be immediately taken into custody and that they be brought to criminal liability in accordance with article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and charged with treason. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, is convinced that no one personally or by any political force is allowed to ignore the Constitution of Ukraine and to enter into the territorial integrity of the State. Now, dear friends, I will comment on this statement by our faction. Two days ago, I received a letter from the Donetsk region. "Dear Valentin Sergeyevich, I'm sending you a leaflet "Molnia" that goes around Donbass. Here's this flyer. What is it? “By carefully examining the situation in the country and by clarifying the most likely developments, we have come to the conclusion that the only solution to the systemic crisis that quickly turns into an economic, legal and so forth, born of an orange takeover, is the widespread federalization of the whole or part of the country.” A few questions arise. Why is this happening? Why is the Attorney General's Office pleased to arrest small-time thieves and allow for the freedom of people who can and are accused of treason against the Family? The faction of the Julia Timoshenko bloc believes that we, Vladimir Mihajlovich, must immediately invite the Attorney-General to the hall and request a report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Victor Turmanov from the faction of "Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. You are well aware of the difficulties that exist in the development of the coal industry. During the years of independence, 120 coal mines were closed. Most mining cities and towns have become flowering regions of depression. Over the past ten years, the amount of drips has decreased by 3.5 times. An artificial situation had been created which had led to the excess of the accounts receivable by more than 10 billion bracelets. Most of the mines and industry as a whole are bankrupt. It was only the Supreme Council's adoption of the Mortality Act that prevented the industry from causing catastrophic consequences. We have all witnessed the dire political situation in which the budget process for the current year took place. I therefore have to note that the benchmarks set out in the adopted State Budget Act 2005 do not adequately address the urgent economic, social challenges facing the coal industry in line with the coal programme approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. One of the most important budget lines to ensure the viability of the coal industry is the financing of capital construction and technical re-arrangement of coal enterprises. Under this programme, the industry needs to be aligned with the programme of 2.4 billion bracelets to be budgeted in 2005. In the coal industry, however, we have a truly paradoxical situation. Under this article, there are four hundred million bracelets. Of that amount, this is the main strategic item in the industry, 710 million is budgeted, and 710 million is what we never received. And this year, we're trying to get 1 billion bracelets from the SPF. There's never been one in the industry before. I would like to say that we, the deputies, voted in favour of the budget, and an amount of 1 billion 22 million has been fixed on this line. Since the President's signature, this amount has changed by minus 300 million. Who stole the mining money? I made a request to Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vladimir Mihajlovich, and the budget committee, in the face of Prashenko, replied that it was indeed a fact. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, today the industry has faced a critical situation with the payment of current wages. No wages are paid in many coal enterprises. The Minister of Finance says it's a mess, a mess. But in 2003, the industry received, received in 2004, and further paid off the wages of miners in previous years. What happened? What happened today was we went through 98 years ago. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance today allocated capital construction and allocated 0 for January to 0 for February to 0 for March to 0. So what are we supposed to do, miners on free vacation? And they took the money to the fourth quarter. This was held in 2001-2002, when money was drawn from the industry again into the budget. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u19	Thank you. John the Rabbit of the faction "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u20	. Ukrainian People’s Party One of the most important requirements of the "orange revolution" was the requirement of a radical renewal of the old power, of old people who did not justify the trust of the people, ignored the interests of the citizens, violated the law during the elections, "criminalized" in the criminal activity of the mafia. And so today one of the MPs came forward and said that radical frame upgrades were a settlement, it was a frame abuse, and he showed this in an example of events happening at the University of Chercass. In fact, there's a different situation, and today we have a call from the hungry students at the University of Cherkas, who say that the Rector of the University, because the Rector of Kuzminsky has become a trusted person of a senior candidate for almost the entire semester, has become a kind of branch of the election headquarters of Janukovich. The dean, other administrative structures, the dormitory commanders, a number of specific lecturers, the profectors of Kukuruz, Artuch, were very active in this process, and they played a role as kind of firefighters who tried to put out acts of discord or resistance in order to actively campaign for the same master candidate. Profect Ostapenko, head of the department of Timoshenko, chief of staff of Parhomenko, individual dean, and., and the hostess commanders allowed themselves to engage in actions that not only violated the law, violated the rights, freedoms of citizens, but also insulted the human dignity of students and teachers. Violent selection of orange symbols, examination of personal things, packets, student and teacher bags, anti-orange raids of dormitory rooms, intimidation, blackmail, and so forth. So, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the updating of the footage that was stained during the electoral campaign that was breaking the law. So there is nothing to talk about bullying today, nothing to talk about frame, because it is not an effective man who does not adhere to the Constitution and does not adhere to the laws. And if students today have risen up at the University of Cherkas, they probably did it for nothing, because you know what kind of pressure we have students today before our teachers or in front of our higher education institutions. I also want to draw your attention to the fact that today's activities of the rectorate show that these are people who do not draw conclusions from their illegal activities. Even bringing those people into the wall last night to the palace of the President of Ukraine shows that these are actions that are being stimulated, that are being financed and done again. So, honourable Members, today we're asking this question in this area: we have to build a democratic state, and in a democratic state, our personnel have to work at the level of publicity. And if there are conflicts that exist today at the University of Cherkas, then we stand up for the students, because what the rectorate failed to do, they couldn't convince the students. And when the students rose up, that's why we're on their side.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u21	Katerina Fomenko, Katerina Alexandrovna, please, from the MP group "Soyuz."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Today, there is a great danger that in the course of today’s political battalions, we will forget those we work for in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to give full information on the overall state of affairs in the local budgets, in the local governments of Ukraine, because most local governments today are asking about a significant reduction in the number of health workers in education, social protection, and culture. You've just come from the territories, and I think you can also give a number of facts about the very critical state of affairs in local self-government regarding state financial support. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm only going to give you a few numbers. In order to provide a salary fund for local budgets at the December 2004 level, 1.7 billion dollars is still needed. That's right. Only 70 percent of the total local budget costs require 5 billion dollars to pay a salary. That's right. I want to remind you that today is critical, and I repeat this word, the level of salary in the total expenditure of all local budgets. In 2005, he made 77 percent against 66 in 2004. I want to remind you of the history of this issue, because when we adopted the 2005 budget, you and I adopted 110 articles of the Final Provisions of the State Budget Act. And this article predicted that by February 15, you and I should have made changes to this law. It was these changes that needed to increase the funding of local budgets. Because to date, we have only 34 percent of the total and special state budget funds that relate to local budgets. My dear ones, from year to year, the amount of funding for local budgets is reduced by territory itself. Well, that's the kind of people we work for here. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that the State is not currently able to finance its delegated powers of education. Health, education, and culture, so today local budgets are forced to direct their own income to finance these articles. And I also want to say. Deputies! We passed a series of laws already in February, in December, that increase the cost of local budgets. There are both childhood and low - income families, and what are the losses that the local budgets will have in connection with the implementation of the Regulations of the Law on the Taxation of Individuals. I want to invite you. We're preparing for budget changes, we're totally forced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u23	Thank you, Catherine of Alexandria. Dear colleagues, we have 3 formal petitions from the national deputies asking them to give them the opportunity to speak in response to dissatisfaction. But since we've been here for an hour and a half, 15 we're looking at applications, queries and messages, I'd like to limit myself to three minutes. Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich and Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski. Honorable Chosen and Honorable Voters! I want to say right now that I don't like to fight shadows, and with ghosts, it's a completely unsuspecting and uninteresting thing. I wrote letters to Kuchma when he was president, now he's not interesting to me, because a dead left leg can kick anyone. But I think that in my place there could be any national MP who's ever asked for our authority once in his life. That's why I'm standing right here. You know. That literally yesterday the whole of Ukraine was struck by the fact that in the end, at least some amount of crime, as it were, is some amount of crime, the most terrible crime that has rocked the entire world and every Ukrainian, is Gregory Gongadze. It turns out that every Ukrainian resident today might think that the prosecution knew everything, totally knew everything, but they didn't want to talk about it. I've got a little bit of a fear. Was it too quickly discovered? Will there be any mistake? I'm standing here because I understand very well that Mukacheve today, the election campaign has blocked Mukacheva and moved him out to the periphery somewhere, so to speak. But I said that I don't like to fight shadows, and shadows are very much loved to be brought back to life, and they usually come back to life in the evening, and they get a lot scarier than they are alive. That's why we have to put a dot in all things, remember nothing. I asked the prosecutor for new information on torture cases as a deputy. I'm getting an answer from Deputy Prosecutor Shokin. I would like to say from this rostrum that the honourable prosecutors, the honourable officials, should answer the MP's request to the first persons, not the second ones, is your sacred duty. What Is Shocking’s Answer? He tells me that two things are already open, and they're doing them now, and so on. I mean, Mr. Shockin, here's a booklet written by today's president. In seconds, the crime is described. What else can you reveal for so long? How long can it take? Then Mukachev will repeat himself tens, tens of times. That's why I want to say it again. We have new power. I'm talking to the officials again. We're not interested in the answers that you've written down recently. I understand that Vasilyev was not willing to reveal anything, and I'm convinced that we're talking about him as an anti-prosecutor, an illegal person, if that's what this is about. But what continues today is Shockin, I warn you simply and simply from such mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u25	Mikola Nightshenko, please. Then Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u26	Nightshade Mikola Petrovich. 160 constituency, Deaf. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In October/January, I urged the leadership of the voters of the Mid-Buzz sum district to ask the Cabinet of Ministers for a solution to the question of the disposal of thousands of tons of toxic chemicals that have been in the temporary warehouse since 1975 in the area of the district. I'm highlighting thousands of tons not 10 or 100. Thousands of chemical reagents that today can cause environmental damage at any time. I am grateful to the Minister for Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Gnatenko, his deputy for the answers, which address everything that is being done in Ukraine, the Sumskie region, and not a word about the prospect of resolving the issue that I have raised. Moreover, the violation of the Law, article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, was never answered by the official to whom I addressed directly. That's why I'm going to the Cabinet for the third time today to get the answer to the question. What else moved me to take the word out of this rostrum today? It's to sharpen the problem by making these thousands of tons explode at any moment, that's the first. Second, the warehouse is right next to the border with Russia. And today, appeals are coming from the deputies of the state word, the deputies of the district councils of the border areas, which are being handed over to me to respond accordingly. Second, the warehouse is in the concept of the Right River. One and a half years, or two years, is enough to make it to the right - hand watershed. And then this disaster will be felt by every cyanide. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you once again to give an order to the Cabinet of Ministers not to make mistakes by previous leaders, but to answer when, at what cost will the work be done to eliminate this warehouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u27	Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u28	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm going to allow myself to comment on the response of the Committee on Natural Resources to my parliamentary request, especially as it relates to the granting of a license to use in the Novoseltsky district of Cherniewec for VAT "Mamaligovski hypsi" plaster factory, the origin of the plaster. The point is that forged documents have been filed. The answer, of course, was positive, that everything was fine. So for your consideration today, Your Honorable Fellow Members, I'm just going to quote a document that says that it was addressed to the Head of the Chernobyl District Council that the Head of the Novoseltsky District Council, Mr. Vakaruk, agrees with the election. A species of gypsum located on the lands of the Mamaliga Rural Council At the same time, this contradicts the Law on Local Self - Rule, which contradicts the Law on the Conclusion of the same Commission, the director of the Hips factory, who is the head of that commission. And the conclusions signed were to be considered at the meeting of the Novoselick District Council. At the same time, I'm talking about those officials who are so attached to power today, come in, honors, run until you're arrested where you took bribes. Because what we have in the State Committees, today's government, ministers want to make amends, and we need to help them in this matter. I'd like to see those MPs get checked out so they don't give us the answers that only those who have bribed us. Using the fact that I have a few more seconds, I would like to announce a document in Parliament today that I have on my hands. This is a statement to the President of Ukraine, Minister of Agricultural Policy of Baranowski, that a memorandum of understanding and cooperation between agricultural producers, banking and insurance organizations is not being provided. There are banks in the area, without making a deal, offering 21 to 24 percent of loans at a time when there was an agreement of 17 percent. And I was saying yesterday that fat cats don't want to work for peasants, they don't want to help peasants. The same is true of oil traders, oil companies that do not want to dissipate their peasants at the price of 2,400 dollars per tonne. Here's what we have, dear friends. And I think that Parliament should be more responsive to these issues. Socialists are set up to fight banks and oil companies to help farmers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we took an hour of twenty - five minutes to the national deputies with statements, reports, information, and parliamentary requests. We've come out of something, we've gone way beyond the Rules. But I think this is explained by the fact that we did not have a plenary meeting for three weeks and that there were many issues that needed social talk and a major solution. I ask the Secretariat for proposals, the requirements that have been made in statements by representatives of the MPs and factions, to make appropriate references, to commission the relevant state institutions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the issues set by the March schedule on Wednesday. And we will be the first to consider the draft Law on Education for Persons with Limited Health Opportunities, that is, Special Education. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Fedorovich Sharov. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov of the committee as deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education will be the focal point. Such a rule is proposed, dear colleagues. For the report, up to five minutes, the answer to the question to the reporter, up to five minutes, for the report, three and three minutes, respectively, and the discussion and decision-making are offered here for 10 minutes. Let's write at least 12 minutes. Is there no objection? Fifteen, yeah? Is there no objection? Then we agreed, please, on such a rule of procedure. Igor Fedorovich Sharov, please. Then from the committee. Is Sergey Ivanovich there? Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u30	Highly esteemed Volodymyr Mikhailovich, high-ranking members of the plenary! Today, we have been hearing about your questions and your statements from factions and groups for almost an hour and a half. And in the first case, and in the second, the cry of the souls of the national MPs who represent the interests of their electorate. Consider the vast palette, the diversity that has been reported here, the concern of both the population and the national MPs. And yet this is the first question today that has been asked about education. Is it random or normal? I think it's only natural, because the question of education is the main radical issue of our future and our activities today. I want to tell you about a bill that was drafted by the people's deputies Bauer and Sharov, stressing its high relevance, which is, as you know, related to what: in Ukraine, for 13 years, has been going through our land with hunger, cold, malnutrition, disease, drug abuse, drinking, and what else can be added? What do you want? As a result, more and more children are born and raised with limited physical and psychological development. Today, there are over 150,000. And these children need special attention from the state to raise them, to educate them within their capabilities. So, I don't count on what Sharov didn't do?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u31	It counts, it counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u32	I want to say, my friends, that the same law has already been prepared by Volkov, but on the third call, it wasn't discussed in the previous summons. And now again, we have a draft law before us. I mean, a number of countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u33	Allow me to finish the talk, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u34	have already passed similar laws. The adopted model law in the MPA countries of SND, there is such a permanent commission on science and education and there is a plenary meeting of an assembly that approved this law. I think the authors borrowed a lot from their project from those documents that they certainly read. What I'm saying is that the bill is fundamental: here are eight chapters, here are 33 articles, we have a positive response to this draft law of separate ministries. The Ministry of Social Policy is not the only one who agrees. And the Ministry of Education and so on, health care, noting the individual shortcomings of the draft law, supports it, believing that it can be adopted in the first reading, so that appropriate changes, additions, and the adoption of a good law can be made. I think we should show our utmost concern and attention to children with limited capabilities. It's both vision, and hearing, and a lot of other things, and a drive-by machine. I look forward to understanding the people's deputies, no matter what factions they're in. And I think today we are voting for the transfer, for the adoption of this draft law in the first reading. And the Committee on Science and Education, which approved this law, well, will do its utmost to take all your observations into account on the basis of its discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Vasil Ivanovich? Please sign up. Three minutes. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, I completely agree with your assessment of the bill, and I think we're too late to accept it. In my opinion, it is a codified act. Here I see this flaw: there is a proposal to establish a state-of-the-art position that guarantees relative to certain categories of persons with disabilities -- there are no criteria for referring to these categories. Do you think that this bill can be drafted quickly in order to accept it in a second reading and to work? That's the first question. And the second. The Ministry of Finance, since it is serious to wipe out such expenses, although necessary, socially necessary, how will the financing of these needs be dealt with in connection with this law? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u37	Thank you very much. I want to say that the Science Committee for your participation will be able to speedily and quickly develop the law on education. That's the first answer. And the second answer. The fact is that the additional enormous financial costs will not be due to the adoption of this law, for there are such schools in the education system. It's going to be mostly about re-profileing them. Of course, some of the funds will be needed for the preparation of the personnel, to be equipped with modern equipment. This applies to both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health and many other ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u38	Anichuk, the Communist faction, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u39	Vladimir Anishuk, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Olga Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u40	Olga Hinzburg, please have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u41	Thank you, my colleague. Dear Sergey Ivanovich! I'm a little worried about your answer, what you said, no material costs, they. This law needs considerable material expense, for there will be people who have limited health opportunities who need to spend more money. Let me give you an example of what we have today. For example, I take my village, which Reutinci is in my district of Krolevetsky. Instead of 110 tons of coal for this year, 25. That's part three. In three years, no amount was given to feed children in schools that were underserved or undernourished. In three years, no money was given for the rehabilitation of children in school. I think we're taking this law. Is there any way that we can actually fund whatever institutions there are and not talk about new ones? I thank you for your answer, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u42	Thank you. You've raised the right question. I want to say that some of the funds will be found this year. And another part is from January 1st next year in the new budget for 2006. I have to tell you that these schools should be well equipped, well-staffed. Here people have to get a higher salary, because it's a hard, hard job for people who are in love with children. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u43	What? How much money? Now I can't say. This year alone is less than the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Sergey Ivanovich! You've already mentioned that this isn't the first time this bill came into existence. Here you are a member of the previous vocation, I remember working on a similar profiling committee, and then in December 2001 our colleagues Volkov and Alexy Marchenko passed a practically similar bill. And I'm told there were no objections. There were positives from the Science and Technology Department, positive views from your colleagues at the Science and Education Committee of the then office, understood. Why is it that the fate of the bill at a time when you see even on the issues itself is that people agree that it is relevant, urgent and needs adoption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u46	Thank you so much for asking me a hard and principled question. I want to say and draw your attention to the date you announced. People's deputy! The main thing is to ask a question, and there's no one there that's interested. You named it December 2001. When was the election? And it wasn't until then that there was a deputy corps to deal with these issues. As a result, he was automatically transferred to the next call. That's my answer. And he never lost touch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u47	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Time is up. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! Before we go to the bill, maybe we'll listen to the Ministry's position, the Minister's position, then we'll discuss the matter. No objections? Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u48	The Ministry of Education and Science, the Cabinet of Ministers, reviewed the draft Law on Education for Persons with Limited Health, Special Education. And here's an interesting two-pronged approach. In general, we are very grateful today to the people's deputies who have prepared this bill, Michael Bauer, Igor Sharov, because they have drawn the attention of society to an extremely important, important problem. We have this problem regulated by law, such as the basis for the protection of persons with disabilities and so forth. But at the same time, this problem is acute today. However, when this issue has been discussed, not in the Ministry of Education, but at a meeting of the Government, I wonder: How much will it cost to introduce this Law, which is the financial, economic justification? How does this all fit into Ukraine's budget for this year, for the next year? Unfortunately, I could not answer that question, for the drafters did not submit such calculations either. And the Ministry of Education and we couldn't figure it out. Because today, when it comes to the introduction of this Law, the elevators must be placed everywhere in schools. We need to set up the phone numbers today to lift this disabled person up by elevator to, say, take him off the phone for the party. They have to learn at all, with children not sick. So the Cabinet of Ministers says that today, in this way, this Law cannot be adopted, but, for example, as an educator, I think that this topic is relevant and it will need to be reinstated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed on 15 minutes. On board, please give the names of the national MPs who have participated in the debate. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please invite you to the presentation. Prepare Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to thank the National Deputies, the project's authors for proposing this project now, because it establishes the legislative basis for regulating the relationship in the field of education and professional training of persons with mental and physical disabilities. It is good that this bill is made as a separate bill on education for people with disabilities. This is exactly what the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine stressed, which raises the question that much of the norms that are included in it are already enshrined in the relevant provisions of Ukrainian laws on the basis of social protection for disabled people in Ukraine, on education, on pre-school education, on general secondary education, on vocational and technical education, on higher education. I believe that meetings, including those of these laws that apply to these God - favored people, are justified. It's very true that schools are divided into mass schools, integrated schools and special schools -- three and a fourth species -- are rehabilitation centers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Education, in its additions and observations, has made a lot of good proposals, especially in article 13. They propose to publish it in the paper: "Those with limited health opportunities for the conclusion of psychomedical consultation have the right to receive education in educational institutions in accordance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine in the field of education." But we have to go only out of the fact that everyone in the state has the right to receive education. It is the duty of the State to do so for people with limited health capabilities. And I'd like to ask the new minister, because this is still signed by Mr. Kremen, to exclude some of the comments that the Ministry has made, because you've given 42 observations. Some of them do not respond to common sense at all. For example, when it comes to what Part 13 may provide for the use of a helper when receiving an education, you suggest that it be removed. Not you, but the Ministry is proposing to delete it. Obviously, this should not be done. Evidently, he should use the help of a helper. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u51	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u52	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. At the beginning of the speech, I will say that the Communist faction supports the bill under discussion. The Communists feel that one of Ukraine’s more painful and up - to - date social problems is finally being addressed. Education is not only the prestige of the state, but also the fundamental reserve for the future of a worthy human being. It shapes people, equips them with knowledge, educates them with civic qualities -- the ability to think and work, communicate and relax, live in a social way, and at the same time be a unique person. And in this sense, the provision of education to people with limited health opportunities is another chance for this defenseless row of Ukrainian people to get a worthy future, an indicator of the real desire of the State for social and educational justice. It is worth reminding us that the problem is still present for Ukraine because two thirds of families, including those with limited health facilities, are underfunded and cannot pay for their children’s treatment and special training alone. They often lack the money needed. In turn, existing state support programmes do not solve problems, particularly material aid paid to disabled children, which is not even sufficient for normal nutrition. As a result, the existing state system of care for such children cannot provide them with normal care, and private institutions are costly. Because one parent is constantly attached to his child, he cannot find a normal job and get involved in society. This creates a closed circle: The family cannot treat and teach their child because he has no money, he cannot earn money, because someone is forced to be around the child all the time. And the state remains in debt as usual. In addressing the drafters of the bill and the profile committee, the existing draft needs to be corrected, particularly in articles that conflict with the opinion of the public organizations of persons with disabilities, to be drafted with the aim of avoiding the abuse of licensing mechanisms and the financing of appropriate educational institutions, and to take into account the experience of such institutions of Hersoniania, the Kharkiv Social Fund "Sudvanka" with developed and active education and training programmes for persons with disabilities. I think it's particularly important, maybe it's not the right thing to do in this law that there should be no children with disabilities in secondary schools. As he watched one of Hersonian schools, he repeatedly spoke to teachers and heard that some children were unable to learn there. This is especially true of orphans. Their fate is said to have been sent to these.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u53	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u54	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party, Lugansk Region. Dear colleagues, we are talking to you today about a very complex and rather problematic category. Why? Because we have two million persons with disabilities in our country, and a large part of them are children. And it is appropriate for these children to learn how they go and prepare for life, depending on how comfortable they feel. Therefore, today, when we discuss with you on a number of occasions the question of how social assistance should be, the extent to which social assistance should be provided. Yesterday we discussed the Labour Guarantee Act with you people with disabilities. I think that the current bill that we are considering with you is more global, and therefore it is systemic. Because only in its systemicity, I think it is the most important and most positive that we are offered today. You will see carefully: this bill lays the foundation for the system of educational and rehabilitation institutions that will in some way assist people with mental and physical health violations. And this system consists of clearly defined specific points. But first, these are, of course, mass educational institutions, integrated education institutions, special institutions and rehabilitation centres. This law clearly defines the category of persons with disabilities with physical or mental disabilities who may be enrolled in an educational institution. Moreover, there is a system and joint learning if the shortcomings of a child with disabilities do not conflict or conflict with those of children who are healthy. Therefore, today, when it is said that the bill was adopted on first reading, I fully agree with all my colleagues who are proposing. However, there are two problems that I believe must be addressed by second reading. First, there is a very common situation with regard to departmental affiliation and departmental interaction. Accordingly, I believe that the law should define clearly, more clearly, the points of interaction between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Protection as part of their interaction in ensuring this education system. The next moment, it was quite right that the bill would require both institutional and material resources. And here's the minister's statement that what we have to consider is absolutely correct. But I think that here both the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Education together will be able to convince those opponents of this law in the Cabinet of Ministers who, I understand, referred to the fact that unpreparedness from this position could lead to the postponement of the consideration of this bill. I therefore believe that it is now that the bill will be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u56	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The current legislation of Ukraine should allow persons with limited opportunities to receive education at a level that corresponds to their abilities and capabilities. Special conditions must be created for them to receive education. Sadly, however, in most special educational institutions there are no such conditions, and children with limited health opportunities in many areas are not learning at all, and as a result, when excluded from the educational process, they are filling in the number of socially vulnerable levels of the population and the delinquents. And the number increases every year. Most of the special facilities for such individuals who were created in Soviet times have now come in bad shape or simply destroyed, along with their material base. There are a number of establishments that are just cranes, surviving only thanks to charitable actions. But let us be honest: Will we find many such benefactors today? Therefore, shame on the subject, but those with limited health opportunities have become just hostages today. What are the conditions under which servants of such institutions are required to work? The director is, in the fullest sense, a waste of money, a beggar. One concern of the state is to deliver a second hand in time. In our region, there's this boarding school in the village of Equine New Ukraine. There are 126 teenagers. The conditions here are terrible. What water treatments can be discussed when there is not even centralized heating, cold and raw in the rooms? The material base is pathetic, and thanks only to the head of the boarding school and the paedcollective, this school survives along with the children. These people just need to say thank you very much for their concern. But they're also forgotten by the state. And there are dozens of such institutions in Ukraine. That's what the new state is going to do. A person in such a state is unnecessary, and more is a person with a physical disability. So I don't think the adoption of this bill is going to improve the social situation in these institutions, and it's going to be better for those kids. For every authority on the throne fills only its own pockets, and only its vocabulary is added to the people, for all the new and new words that so aptly characterize this authority are emerging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u57	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You know, I didn't happen to ask your respectable colleague Droguntz: "Why hasn't the draft bill been implemented for four years?" It's strange, really, because somehow we find it more relevant to see Bills as often-intensive: tariff changes, some lobbying moments and so on. Clearly, there is no one here to defend their rights. These children, who do not have the capacity to learn properly, cannot stand up for their rights. But, you know, I remember the story of 15 years ago when you showed, I think you also remember, four students at the Moscow State University of Deaf, who graduated from the postgraduate of Moscow State University, who have received education, who have done a lot and will do much more in the science plan. I think we've all seen it on TV and an excellent English physicist, who only moves one finger, he's paralyzed and he's sitting in a special chair, but his scientific research is of global importance. Obviously, we should point out that this bill is not only about mental development but also about physical development. What about those with disabilities in physical development, education? Without a paphos, it's really the only light in life, obviously, especially when you consider that often, densely such children are orphans, are children who are left without parental care. Clearly, then, there are things that need to be taken up urgently and quickly, not to wait four years. And one more moment, excuse me for such a tour. One version is anthropologists that the human society appeared when they found the burial, and one among them was the bone of an adult without an arm. So it became clear that at that time his relatives were holding on to an adult who was actually incapacitated. Obviously that's what human civilization came out of, and obviously the Latin word "humanos" is, and there is humanity and humanity, so I join my colleagues in my gratitude to the authors of this bill, and the only thing I'd like to say is that we're not doing any benefit, no relief to these children who are allowed to learn properly. Article 52 of the Constitution, we all know it, is that children are equal in their rights. It does not refer to mental imperfection or physical imperfection. And there's more. Everyone has the right to education, not according to their mental or physical abilities. And it says in article 52, "The custody and upbringing of orphans and children rests on the state," let the state care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u59	Yes, Your Honor, with a motive, please, Tamara Proscuratov. Turn on the microphone. Vladimir Lechchenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u60	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. By fully supporting this bill, I want to make one wish. For most children with serious health problems, the first teachers and teachers are their own parents, and article 26 of the bill states that "parents have the right to visit free of charge with the permission of the head of the educational institution in public, secondary and vocational schools for the purpose of obtaining knowledge." Yet a mere presence may not be enough to gain a thorough knowledge of the matter. With a child, I think it is appropriate to include in the text of the bill a provision guaranteeing parents the right to free access to methodological assistance so that they can deal with their children on their own. In general, I consider it appropriate to adopt the bill as the basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u61	Yes, Vladimir Lechchenko. Dear colleagues, I'm just leaving those who signed up. And Kafarsky, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u62	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! As a deputy, I am surprised by the position of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who by the mouth of Minister Nicolanek is being baptized from the problem of education of persons with limited abilities. As in the government of Yanukovic, they lack the money to do so. While the Committee on Science and Education, which is currently under the leadership of Minister Nikolayenko, supports the bill. I'm also surprised at the position of the Ministry of Education itself, which wants to be removed and gives a number of observations, as if this does not apply to us, including, in paragraph 4, the point is to even exclude from the bill the word "students" because the author did not settle the issue, so they didn't provide for the relevant law. Yes, I propose, as a national deputy, and the Ministry of Education, and the Committee to take this matter and work with us, and we to vote for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u63	Kafarski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u64	What is it? Even though it's an extra financial cost, it's still a law that needs to be passed. Today, educational institutions have been established in accordance with the Higher Education Law. To teach people with disabilities. But that's not what I'd like to talk about today. After we graduate from school, children with disabilities are out of work. Moreover, in the factories where people with disabilities are working today, they have no place to produce their children. Because of this, I am addressing those committees that are dealing with these issues today. Not only do we solve the issue of additional jobs, but from a national point of view, we provide the purchases for these productions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u65	Yes. Dear colleagues, are there any warnings? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u66	I, Nikolainka, Minister of Education and Science. What I meant to say is that this is where my colleague Leschchenko said that we are getting baptized, the government from the problem and that there is today this teaching of children with special limitations in health. No, on the contrary, the only thing I want to hear today is not just, let's say, it was, but Nikolainka said today that there is a problem, and that's the end of it. Let us adopt a law that will bring them to their attention. And I'm asking the authors today, how much does this law cost, what does it cost to do today, where are these grounds? They're gone. So in order to do so, colleague Lechchenko, not just a flag, but a step further, these steps would have to be counted by the authors. So, for example, I'm going to take on this problem, and we're going to have to figure out how much we're going to spend next year. You can't call me. No, it's not. You can just put a pin on me and cover yourself with a red flag. And I want you to know that this problem needs to be solved. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the MPs are determined, but since there is no financial and economic justification, I had to report this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u67	Thank you. One minute, Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't have a line. I'm sure the reply will be yes. I have an explanation. I would like to ask the Minister of Education. Nevertheless, his statement said that the Committee had not made any calculations, and unfortunately we had not been able to do them either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u69	Authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u70	No, and the Ministry, you can pick up the transcript. So was the Ministry able to do the math or not? If it failed to do so, where is the guarantee of what it would do in a month, two months or six months? And I would like to find out why, so far, the Ministry has not done such calculations even if the committee that is headed by today's minister is so bad that it can't do them?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down. Please, please, please, I don't need to. Your last name? We didn't call. Calm down. Well, we agreed, the gmina made a replica. Dear colleagues, calm down, please. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please prepare for the vote. Right after the vote. Please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on Education of Persons with Limited Health Opportunities, Special Education on the Basis. [[Registration number 6218]] Please vote. [[12:02:51]] For 273 The decision is made as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a problem that requires additional financial revenues and expenses, we need to work out this document for the second reading, probably on the committee, and with the participation of the Ministry of Education and Science in order to make a decision that will work. Replica, please, Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u72	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The minister, a socialist, and thus far the chairman of the committee has confirmed for a second time that the government of Yulia Timoshenko has no money for this. Even they did not succeed in considering today's session to make the right calculations and to say that we, the new Cabinet of Ministers, will find this money, and the issue of education of persons with limited capabilities will be resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. They exchanged lines. Let us look for what unites us, not disunity. And we are united by the common problem that we have to solve in the form of the draft law that we have considered. Dear colleagues, we have to take a break on schedule. But since, let us consult, we asked questions, spoke for an hour of twenty - five, and considered only one bill. Just a minute. So maybe we could work until 14 hours and then take a break. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft law on the supervision of cars with persons in respect of whom the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is being promulgated. The reporter is Mikola Vasilovich Karnauh. To prepare for the committee of Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! The Law's proposed draft was submitted to me when the old government, which, unfortunately, was blocked by all kinds of barriers, accompanied itself under any circumstances, and officials of even a low rank allowed them to be accompanied by special cars. This has created obstacles to the normal functioning of road traffic, creating some discomfort for citizens. I am glad that the new President, Victor Yushchenko, is demonstrating the openness of power, and when he is in the regions, he thus forbids the accompanying of his movements, and he advocates in general the destruction of these barriers between officials and the people. The proposed draft Law not only establishes the order of escort, but it will also allow more efficient use of the forces and resources of the special units of the DAI unit, and will reduce the financial costs of this activity, because you may have witnessed more than once when a large number of militias, the post office, the DAI have been covering the movement for hours, surrounded certain areas and thus used forces and resources not for the purpose. At that time, crimes were committed. I'll say that this bill, it's small by content, but it clearly regulates the subject of escorting certain officials. Therefore, I propose that the article first states that the permanent escorts are the vehicles in which the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as well as the heads of foreign states and governments, which are determined by the State Protocol and the ceremony of Ukraine. This list is exhaustive. So the second article is to establish that the escorting of vehicles with other persons who are protected by the National Deputys of Ukraine, members of the Government, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the head of the Kyiv and Sevastopol District Public Administrations, city heads, government officials of all levels, officials and others, apart from those mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Act, is prohibited, i.e. all other officials are prohibited from being accompanied by their cars. By article three, I propose to install an unhindered and safe passage of cars with the President of Ukraine, heads of foreign states and governments, carrying out special units of road traffic services through the short-term introduction of its restrictions, traffic regulations, patrol cars or motorcycles with identification paint and inscriptions of a model with special lights and sound signals on. I also suggest that the introduction of a long-term road restriction, as well as the movement of urban passenger transport, ambulances, fire protection, emergency and other rescue services, the administration of Ukrainian and militia national security, which carry out urgent service tasks, is prohibited during escorting. Unhindered and safe driving of cars with other persons is not allowed through the introduction of road traffic restrictions. Article 4 proposes that special sound and light devices of red, blue or green can be installed and used in road traffic and state security, and blue can be used on cars that serve persons who are protected or are members of the police, ambulances, ambulances and other rescue services who have identification paints and inscriptions of the pattern set when performing urgent service tasks. The procedure for issuing such permits is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The installation and use of special sound and light devices of red, blue or green on any means of transport on which the persons mentioned in paragraph 2 of this Act are present are prohibited. It's not a big, but a clear bill will allow you to organize car escorts and make it impossible for any official to use both social vehicles and other measures to hinder traffic and create inconveniences for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u75	Please, can I ask you a question? Sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Nigger. Behind him, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u76	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, I think we should support the bill. But at the same time, I want to express one question. As I understand it, two goals are being pursued: on the one hand, to ensure the smooth and safe movement of the cars of the people who need to do so, and on the other hand to make it impossible for anyone to take advantage of such opportunities. That's what I'm thinking. Will the goal be achieved? Is the bill's responsibility, the sanctions for violating this law, to prevent officials from itching to use escorts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u77	Thank you for asking. The point is, your questions are right. And the subject of this law is not to establish responsibility. This will be established by the Code of Administrative Offences, and there must be such a responsibility. And this bill will clearly establish a list of those who will have the right to do so and will not allow others to have both escorts and movement overlaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u78	Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u79	Fucking Communist faction. Mikola Vasilovich, we support this law. We need to bring him in, and he really needs to help, first of all, our militia, state inspection to bring order. But perhaps we should consider this bill more broadly, because there are specialists, there are blinkers, there are other means of ignoring Ukraine's laws today. So I'd like to wish that this law, if we did, only part of it solves the problem of special premises that apply in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u80	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u81	Sorry, there was no question. Zarubinsky. It was a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u82	I agree with yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikola Vasilovich, supporting the idea of a person who often encounters something that you really can't go through when you're in trouble. Some feel that work is more important than that of other Ukrainian citizens, even though it is not true. I've got some questions. From her. I have your bill in my hands. Look, here goes "to improve the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides." And there went the points that the Supreme Council decreed. [[and so on]] Well, please tell me, you didn't call it a decree, you called it the law of Ukraine. The law has a certain technique, a legal basis, that is, a requirement of law. It divides -- you know that very well -- into chapters, points and so on. What kind of shape is that? Is this an imperfect form, or are you making innovations in lawmaking? Please give an answer whether it's intentional or technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u84	The point is, as the subject of the legislative initiative, I have submitted this bill, which was prepared with progressive police personnel and really in the observation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, is that the technical and legal standard is not met, I believe that we can adopt it in the first reading, and these articles can be called, for example, articles 1 "Automobiles that are subject to constant escorting", article 2 "No Car Accompaniment". There will be paragraphs 2.1. of article 3, “The manner of safe and safe driving of cars”, will be paragraph 3.1., 3.2., 3.3. Article 4 will be called "Special Sound and Light Devices" and will be sub-items. So in the process of redrafting this draft law after the first reading, we're all going to lead to technical and legal norms. But the problem itself is important and putting it off, I think, is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee’s profile, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u86	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194 constituency, Hmelničina, People's Power Party, "One Ukraine" faction. A committee on law enforcement was discussed by the Ukrainian National Deputy Karnauh Mikola Vasilović on the draft Law on the Accompanying of Cars with Persons for whom the DAI Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine has taken steps to ensure the smooth and safe passage of cars. [[Registration number 2658]] The bill proposes to regulate car relations with people. on which the DAI Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine is taking measures to ensure their safe passage. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it necessary to make the following comments and suggestions. The draft law does not meet the technical and legal requirements for bills, i.e. it is not divided into articles that have names, parts, paragraphs, or something written that the Supreme Council decides. It is not clear from paragraphs three or four of the articles what is "shortterm and long-term traffic restrictions". These concepts are not legally defined by Ukrainian law. Nor does it define the concept of urban passenger transport. The rules of road traffic refer to road transport. By paragraph one and two of the draft articles one and two of the Act on the State Protection of Organs were successful and officials. Pursuant to article six of this law, protection measures are being carried out continuously with respect to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Constitutional Court, the Head of the Supreme Court, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Henprocuror. It is necessary in this bill to cancel, because to change these articles, which I call the Law, which is already in force today, the Regulations on the State Protocol and the Ukrainian Ceremonial, the order of escorting cars with persons whose measures are being taken by the DAI Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure the safe and unhindered passage of cars is not defined. In the light of the committee’s presentation, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is of the same opinion. In addition, the President of Ukraine stated in his statement that he was giving up on any kind of companionship. In addition, the DAI Department has been annulled by the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine today. It's being transferred there to another unit that hasn't been named yet. In this regard, the Committee believes that work should be done. The idea is good, but it needs to be worked out according to the laws that exist today and the rules of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u87	Yes. Thank you. Please write down the questions. Yes, please, three minutes. Gorgeous, Nosenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u88	Dear reporter, you stressed that the idea was a very good one, but really the current authorities in principle recognized all of these ideas as fair and applied appropriate measures, but the report by Mikla Vasilovich said: well, there is no responsibility in the field of law, it does not apply. Well, will this Law be passed without any responsibility, will it work or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u89	Mikola Vasilovich Karnauh already answered that question. The point is that legislation in the Administrative Code provides for responsibility for violations of these rules. The second thing is, they're worthless like that today. There are 17 bracelets, so these standards would also have to be good if this Law were to be worked out and given with responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u90	Please, Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u91	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the word to colleague Lechchenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u92	Lechchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Pavlovich, for example, I support the committee's conclusions, and what the President said, you know, today's authorities are saying a lot. But so far it has been declared unfulfilled. As long as a high official appears, all cars are running around in bushes, on the streets, and so forth. So tell me, please, doesn't it seem to the committee that this issue needs to be settled so that drivers and citizens don't suffer when one of the tall ones is driving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. I'll give you a quick answer. The point is, from the very beginning, both Mikola Vasilovich and I said that he really needs to be settled, but he needs to be better settled. For example, for an indefinite period of time, the term should not be more than five minutes. You have to take it one way or another. And today there's no limit to this escort. I thank you for that question. And we need to put order in place. That's why the bill, I think, and the committee and the author of this bill are going to work on it and bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u95	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u96	Tell me, please, from today we are discussing the subject with you and, including, you have absolutely said that the Minister said that the GAI system would simply not exist. So we're trying to regulate what's not going to happen. Please tell me how this service is going to be provided today, because we can always hear that there is a problem with the GAI, with the GAI. The GAI, for its part, will say that there are problems with the same MP. I have a question: you've somehow found out, and what kind of numbers are they putting in? We're always told that you and I drive around in rooms where hair gets up. In fact, who's releasing them? Who gives them to whom or sells them. And everything else. That's why I have one question. Say, in general, the situation on the GAI is just declarations or the intention of the executive to change something there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u97	When I answer that question, I'm going to say that the Home Secretary hasn't met the committee yet, and he hasn't been to a committee meeting. And his ideas today in the development of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the law enforcement system are unknown to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Here we go, 12 minutes. Please, Karmazin, prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, block of our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. More than a year ago, we, a group of national deputies from different factions, submitted a draft Codex on Road Traffic. To date, this codex has not been considered on the committees of profile. I'm talking to the heads of the profile committees and Mr. Desertface, and Mr. Moysik, do your job from the committee, believe me, these bills are frame-up, manipulated, will lose all meaning when you see what complex approach we've proposed, a group of national MPs. It's completely out of all the factions that people are here. And a group of experts working on it. I'm asking you, because today we're going to spend time again for nothing, and it's going to end with this law being broken. Although it was available in January 2003. Of course, I would like to thank Mr. Karnauh for the idea, you remember Kuchma and his surroundings moving around the country as they stopped moving around, and the Chinese complained. Today President Yushchenko is moving, standing on traffic lights. And that's true, that's not showy. And you can see that Bank Street is unlocked, and you can walk on it. I hope you can still drive, maybe except for the trucks. And that would be wise, for Kiev needs to be unloaded. I'd like to pay attention when we talk about this project, and here's about accompanying the employees of the DAI about what's going on, whether it's called reforming the DAI saying that all those posts are going to be turned into a saying and so on. I wish it hadn't come to a frostbite. And I go to Yuri Lucenka: there's this notion of state security, there's this notion of disclosure of crimes, there's this notion that introduction has to be made by conquest. And that's why the most important directions have to be covered. And yesterday the world was worried about the news of the crime against George Gongadze. In fact, two colonels have been arrested. But the General is still on the run. And there's no one else like the Attorney General today, so-called Mr. Piscoon. I demand that Mr. Piscoon be immediately arrested as acting Attorney General until he has escaped in conspiracies with you, Mr. Piscoon. Just as you covered up the Pucker, you gave him the opportunity to escape. And the honest investigators Shubin and Grishenko are the ones who solved the crimes. The sand had nothing to do with it and had nothing to do with it. God forbid, he's not intruding on this. Therefore, dear friends, we need to clean up power from such perverts as:
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u100	Please, Mikola Kravchenko. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u101	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The problem of road traffic exists, and today there are some 30 bills in the Supreme Council that try to regulate this legislation. Please note, however, that the Road Traffic Act 4552 of 2003 has been on the committee and does not consider its committee for the sole reason that the Ministry of Internal Affairs does not wish to adopt this law, consider the situation. As far as we're concerned, we're wasting 30 laws here at the Supreme Council Hall. And I will tell you clearly that this law is fully reflected in this Code of Road Traffic, which was passed by the People's Deputy Karnauh. I want to tell you that today we have actively begun to work on the issue of Law 6406, which I have introduced, on compulsory liability insurance. There was a colleague who, by the way, voted in favour of the law, and 19 people, together with him, voted in favour of the adoption of this arakcheev language vis-à-vis our car owners, the laws. And yet, to date, the committee also does not want to consider it for the sole reason that it is beneficial for someone to collect this money from the people. I cannot go to the Prime Minister for a month under Cabinet of Ministers decree 1615 on the replacement of driving rights. I publicly declare today that I no longer want to go to the Prime Minister, who, for a month on political grounds, does not want to accept me because she knows what questions I will ask her. Therefore, I declare that I will not go to her interview. But the point is that if we do not make a fundamental decision today, we will not adopt the Road Code, we will systematically postpone and waste time on these 30 bills from the session to the session. The Code provides for all of this, including the ideology of the GAI. To date, I, who has always opposed the GAI, believe that today the Ministry has made a mistake to destroy road control at all. I'm against it, and the Communist faction will back me up on that. It is a matter of adopting sound, normal legislation, and on this basis we will force the GAI to work under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u102	Basil Nadraga, faction of the People's Party, prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, today there is one question: today the question is that the absolute majority of our auto-lovers, professional drivers, are always outraged by the way in which we exist and the way in which we operate. On this basis, the statement that the auto-inspection would be eliminated was also unsettled with regard to roads. Why? Because when it is said that there will be no road traffic control service at all, the question arises: What will happen, who will control? We have a sergeant of the PPP who knows that such a breach of public order will determine the speed of traffic of cars and make claims for violations or something else. On the other hand, speaking of the bill that we are proposing, I fully agree with all the colleagues who have spoken today and said that we have no sense of adopting laws that are more similar to regulations. We need to adopt what is called a road code, what is called a road traffic law. If we make a systemic decision, then we can tell who is involved in the road traffic, what rights they have, what responsibilities, who controls, what rights and responsibilities road traffic controllers have. Accordingly, it will be much clearer how the legislative framework for road traffic is established. We have, unfortunately, everything about traffic is seasonal, I'm not afraid of that word, the chaotic order. From time to time, we begin to listen to the need to change the car numbers in order to keep the roads in order. And they're changing them. More order, less corruption, and the least. And the fact is, I'm sorry about how privileged the numbers were, so they stayed. What's more, we've moved on. If we used to put the number of the region on the car numbers of the past, so to speak, the pattern, there is now just a series of 2Is, which is not a single region. And when we're told today that motorists have become even more even on roads, the question is, who has become more equal: those who drive under 2I numbers, or those who drive on regional numbers, but the last two "MIs" that are also, understandably, divided only by internal affairs? Therefore, when it comes to order, I think that, first of all, order should be put in the Ministry of the Interior system, in the system of service that is responsible for road traffic. This is when we put order there, and it will become more clear what kind of order we will have on the roads as a whole. And so, otherwise, we will go out with such bills, which I think are non-systemic in nature, and they will not benefit from it. It therefore agrees with those who propose that, with all the usefulness of the task, the bill should be sent for further elaboration. And in part of the order in the GAI, I think it's important to keep things in order if we're talking about traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u104	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u105	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Of course, the draft law is designed to improve the order of escorting cars with persons for whom the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is taking steps to ensure safe and unhindered passage. One way to improve the order of automobile escort is to establish a list of legally recognized measures that can be used for the purpose of unhindered and safe driving. The law also provides for the establishment and use of special signals. It would be good if this law were applied effectively and not only to senior officials but also to party members. In general, when we are a democratic state, we may have to give up excess pompousness, as was the case in Kuchma’s day. Even now, the new authorities and some national MPs are not completely repudiated. Some Ukrainian national MPs will like that, because they need to keep a special state, spending large amounts of money that is so lacking in medicine, and in the educational institutions that we talked about in the consideration of the previous law. It is time to know that these escorts cause only dissatisfaction and condemnation in people, perhaps it would be better for officials to drive without special signals and splendid escorts, as is done in democratic states. And the people always want to meet high officials, express their opinions and wishes. So, Mr. Lucenko, when you and Yushchenk on the Mayan of Independence promised to build a new democracy, be open and honest not only in words but also in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u106	Yes, please, from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u107	Thank you. Deputy Interior Minister Rudik. The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, considering that most of the provisions of the bill cited are sufficiently regulated by valid regulations, its adoption is not appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're not on the same page, but the Committee has proposed a regulation, I told you, and you agreed, so I follow that rule. A moment of motive. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u109	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, you have just heard what a representative of our Ministry of Internal Affairs has just said. I respect Lucenka and support him with a lot of money. But you hear what the officer says. All of this has long been regulated by legislation. Then, if this is regulated by legislation, please explain why Medvedchuk was covering the roads literally until recently. The one who drove out of his house, covered the roads, anybody was driving. Thousands of people are standing on the coast because someone has to go to the airport. If this is regulated by legislation, why is this not being done? That's what this bill is about. I realize that there may not be everything written in it, but it is necessary today to end this feudalism that we have today. Every "cee" that has money has hung a militia number on these, more than the police themselves, and it will continue if we don't accept this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u110	Yes, please, a minute for the author to be incarcerated. Karnauha's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u111	From where?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u112	Yeah, yeah. Your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u113	Dear colleagues and the distinguished representative of the Ministry, there may be some legal relations and regulations, but in Ukraine all the authorities and their officials are bound by the Constitution to act within the limits, order and manner of authorizations defined by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the law of Ukraine, which would establish the order of escort, does not. So I'm taking all your comments, colleagues, and I'm proposing to adopt the Law in the first reading to work out. And the problem is, it needs to be solved. And then, when we adopt the system law, the Road Traffic Code, that's when these issues will be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. I would just like to confirm the point made by a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, I address Yavorowski, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch. The point is, the ministry representative was telling the truth about this. The changes that we are talking about today, and this bill that we are considering today is unfortunately not like the bill that was mentioned here, has been in our Parliament since January 2003. In this time, I can't say the exact date, but, literally, somewhere in February or January this year, we've adopted amendments to the Road Traffic Bill, which took these problems into account: when, who, and how. I mean, there's no need to blame it for any of these changes. Yes, but they've been adopted quite recently. Having concluded the discussion, taking into account the thoughts that have been heard here, I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on the Accompanying of Cars with Persons for whom the State Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is taking steps to ensure the smooth and safe passage of cars. [[Registration number 2658]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:38:48]] For-98 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 40, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 25, National Agrarian Party - 2, SDPU - 0, Ukraine - 0, SPU - 21, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 1, People's Will - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Center - 2, NDP, Republic - 2, Postfaction - 3. I'm going to allow myself to recommend to the drafter of the bill to follow the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which says that if he has such a desire, let him look at the articles of the Road Traffic Act. And if something doesn't take into account those proposals that Nicholas Karnauh made, you can make a reference to that basic law as additions and amendments to the bill. Thus, 98 votes -- the bill was rejected. Let's move on to second reading. Bill number 4226. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization. [[new editor]] According to Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Second reading. One hundred and forty-seven specific comments and suggestions were introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including 140: 121 entirely, 19 with the detailed editions. There's seven left. If colleagues insist, I can report every one of them, seven of them. A committee in this regard requests the adoption of a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u116	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Dear colleagues, as you have heard from the committee's report, more than a hundred suggestions from your legislators, 140, 7 have not been taken into account. Which of the colleagues whose suggestions are not taken into account insists on their stand and consideration, please raise your hands. Then. Let's go after all seven proposals that aren't included, I mean. Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u117	Jury Anatolyovich Karmazin's third offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u118	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u119	He's asking me to detail the preamble, we think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u120	Let him speak first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I can tell you what I think. I agree that this law should be passed, but paragraph 3, I ask that the preamble be put in such an order. The law lays down the legal basis for the mobilization and mobilization of Ukraine's work, rights and duties, including the responsibility for the implementation of powers, further powers, established in a certain extent by the authorities of the State, other state bodies, the armed forces' headquarters, local self-government authorities, and the responsibility of enterprises, institutions and organisations, regardless of the form of ownership of property and the organization and legal form of management, the mandate of officials and the responsibility of citizens to carry out mobilisation measures. This kind of detail, in my opinion, is necessary for us to understand clearly what is governed by this law. And it's much better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u123	Committee position. The committee believes that since it is a preamble that should be clear, concise, and because it does not wear, it does not set specific standards, we suggest that we leave the editorial that the committee has agreed to. But Yuri Anatolyevich insists that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u124	Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting? Are you insisting on voting? I'm voting on the proposal of Yuri Anatoliyovich, please be sure. I'd like to make my determination on the proposal of the People's Deputy Carmazin. [[12:43:27]] For-34 I didn't get the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u125	21st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u126	21st, Seminoga, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u127	I've got the 46th, not the 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u128	There's 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u129	There's your 21st on page seven, please look.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u130	I don't insist on 21st.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u131	None. 46th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u132	Then we have page 32.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u133	Yeah, page 32 of the 46th. I'm asking you to pay attention because this is about financing the mobilisation process. And according to the eighth article, funding has been invested in the State Budget and in the cost of the enterprise. And the point is that businesses have to finance these measures first of all from their profits. Business profits can be used for the development of an enterprise, for the pleasure of the social sphere. So I'm proposing that these costs that have been spent on mobilisation preparations and on mobilisation itself be included in the cost of the enterprise before the tax period in which they were spent. This will enable the enterprise to reduce the financial burden on execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u134	This is Amendment 46. The 32th amendment is the amendment of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u135	We'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u136	Yeah, we'll go back to her, yeah. And here, according to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income, mobilisation preparation cannot be included in gross costs because it is not an economic activity. Therefore, the committee did not support this amendment. But we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u137	Do you insist on voting? Please identify yourself with the amendment of colleague Seminog. Amendment number 46. [[12:45:33]] For-23 Not accepted. Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich, 32 revisions on page 13. Are you insisting on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I'm just insisting, here's a lot of suggestions, I've made proposals on almost 10 sheets. I'm grateful the committee counted them. And I think they're going to improve the law substantially. But some are rejected, and this is not correct in the table, Georgi Korniyovich, reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u139	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u140	This is not a valid table entry. Didn't I say what? To say demobilization is what it is. This is a set of measures, order and timing decisions taken by the President of Ukraine, aimed at the planned transfer of government authorities, other state bodies, local self-government bodies, national economy and businesses to work and to function in peacetime. And the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, civil protection systems, for the organization and states of peace. So we're talking about definition, definition. And in this case, it's shown under 32 amendments that's completely different. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u141	So what's the problem? The problem is, Yuri Anatoliyovich asks to note that, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Defence Act, the function of planning the mobilization of economic sectors and monitoring the preparation of enterprises of all forms of property for the implementation of the mobilization tasks is laid down in the Ministry of Defence. But in this case, the point is to coordinate the activities of executive bodies, other national economic authorities in these matters. This is done, as recorded in the committee’s draft, by the central executive body on economic policy, unless otherwise provided by law. As far as the Armed Forces are concerned, this is defined by the Defense Act. This is what the Ministry of Economics does in this case. However, since Yuri Anatolyevich insists, a vote must be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u142	He doesn't. Yes, next, please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u143	Let's take it. So the next one is going to go to page 117, page 110.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u144	No, no, we've still got the Bat, doesn't she insist on the 13th? Male, 49, don't you think? Yes, please, Karmazin is still on page 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u145	No, it's page 38.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u146	No, the 23rd, Karmazin's 64th amendment was rejected. On the 23rd. 64th, please take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u147	No, it's counted. Oh, there's one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u148	Don't you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u149	This is about initiating a question about. on exclusion. establishment. So here they are. I suggested that we remove the situation with regard to the granting of benefits to enterprises for which mobilization tasks or mobsaIs have been set up. As a result of the benefits, this is as the government says today, it's very serious things, it needs to be changed to many legislative acts, and it's the government's money. So I think there's a problem with the benefits that should be taken into account, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u150	No, because it's taken away. It's about empowering the Cabinet of Ministers if it's necessary to initiate the issue of granting aid to those entities for which the mobilization tasks are set. This is a very responsible thing, and since this prerogative is given to the Cabinet of Ministers, which of course will not do any things, those that disagree with the budget, we think it should stay in this bill. But since a colleague insists, a vote must be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u151	Yuri Anatolyovich? Don't insist. Please, then, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u152	Thirty-eighth page, 110th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u153	110th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u154	This is about the title. I don't think Yuri Anatolyovich will insist. It doesn't matter. But if he wants to, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u155	Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u156	The language's coming. Yuri Carmazin. It's about what the article used to be called the local self-government organs. This article was adopted in the first reading. Obviously, local self-government is a common name and it's a completely different law. That's why I suggested the title of the article as an editorial: "The responsibilities of local self-government authorities in the area of mobilization and mobilization." Now he's writing down the committee: "Approval of local self-government authorities." Well, you see, Georgi Korniyovich, you should write it as I suggested. The authority’s authorizations are defined in the laws on their status. Here's the definition of authority. And the responsibilities of mobilising and mobilizing -- I offered you absolutely the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u157	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, a fellow MP from Domansky, proposed this formula that was accepted by the committee. Let's let the Supreme Council decide. The committee proposed such a formula. Offer, the Supreme Council shall receive, yours shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u158	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the 110th People's Deputies of Carmazin. Well, you've only been an hour. I'm sorry, you were just arguing about your amendment. I can't give you any more. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u159	Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u160	I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 110 people's deputies, Carmazin. Please vote. [[12:52:14]] For-50 Then. Now, now, Georgi Korniyovich. Here, National Deputy Carmazin is right that you changed an editorial that wasn't in the first vote, so now we have a vote to confirm the new title of the article, which is now proposed in the second reading. The one that was edited by the committee. Please vote. [[12:52:54]] For a-117. So there's an editorial that was adopted on the first reading. Yes, and the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u161	Last page 44, 133.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u162	Yuri Anatolyevich, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u163	Here's the thing -- Yuri Carmazin -- that I propose to remove the positions that are written that "citizens who engage in entrepreneurial activities do mobilization tasks, contracts, contracts." I suggested that this position be removed because the citizens in this case do not perform the duties of the enterprise. The founder is a citizen. Is that right or wrong? Obviously it could be a private enterprise, it could be in a different form, and it's written like this. Other articles provide this, so I asked for an exception, which is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u164	The committee disagreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u165	Do you insist on voting, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it's not. That's how all the amendments we've made have been made with you. You and I, once again, have left an article in the previous edition, if I am not mistaken, 18th. 22, but now it's like 18 already, in final version 18, but without the word "authority," and just like we did in the first reading, "the organs of local self-government." And I'm going to say again, it's 22 in the previous line. In this editorial that we're now proposing, and we're taking the third column, it's 18. So please don't beat me up. On the basis of Domanski's vote, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u166	Dear comrades of the National Deputies! Why would you not want there to be responsibilities? It's like an army statute: "soldier's duty, Sergeant's duty." We're more tolerant of self-government and we say "authorization" would be more cultural in this law to write.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u167	Anatoly Ivanovich, we're now leaving an editorial where there's no authority or responsibilities, and this word is being ruled out now, in the old edition, it was, "the organs of local self-government."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u168	Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, the preceding article, "local executive authorities."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u169	I mean, it's all there, Anatoly Ivanovich. We didn't add anything. In view of the discussion and what we have agreed with you, I am voting on the second reading and, as a whole, the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization, Bill 4226. Please vote. [[12:56:28]] For 216 Dear colleagues! Get ready, please. Once again, all the amendments we made, we went through, democratically resolved, and we also decided that we are going back in the 18th article to the previous name that was tested and our support was received in the first reading. So I'm voting on the adoption as a basis, no, as a whole, in the second reading and as a whole, as the Law, the Law of Ukraine amending the Law on Mobilization and Mobilization. Registration number 4226. The science-expert management has supported it without notice, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u170	And legal administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u171	And legal, too. [[12:57:30]] For-286 Thank you. The law is passed. I understand that your Honorable colleagues, we're working a little bit on breaking the rules. Right now, we're having a tea break, and that's why something's demobilized. And now they're mobilising. So let's move on to the simplified procedure, we have here. And we agreed on a break that we were working all the time today. With a session hall. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology. on technical security, we have registration numbers: 5152, 5152-1, 5152-2, 5152-3, 5152-4, 5152-5. Yes, please, in order to receive the drafts, their registrations, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich. I see. The next bill is Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich, please. Three minutes, about the novelties of your proposal. Get ready for Bill's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u172	Kosinov, 170th District, Kharkiv City. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, the introduction of this bill is called upon by article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, according to which the pensioners, who have worked for at least two years after their retirement under this Act, have a higher salary than the one from which the pension was calculated. A new pension is being established, coming from a higher salary, only when they were working on a contract. So one of the necessary conditions for recalculating the pension of the specified category of persons is to make a contract of employment in the form of a contract. At the same time, according to Part 25 of the same article of the 24th Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities after the appointment of the pension, scientific and scientific teachers can work both under the contract of employment and under contract. The result is a situation where, if a scientist worked after the appointment of a contract pension, the pension is counted by the bodies of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, and if he worked under a contract, it is not counted. This is evidenced by numerous voter complaints and the position of pension authorities. This situation is not justified in any way, and as a result, the situation is that scientists who have worked under an ordinary term contract after their release are subjected to unlawful discrimination, which is a gross violation of article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the international legal treaties of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, according to which pensioners who have worked for at least two years after the appointment of pensions under this law had higher wages than those from which they were calculated. A new amount of pension is established, resulting from higher earnings only if they worked both under the contract and under the contract of employment. This will eliminate discrimination in the assignment of pensions and eliminate gaps in legislation. I'm asking for the support of the people's deputies for this law, because this applies primarily to a fairly high number of pensioners who apply for the recalculation of pensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich. Please. To prepare for the Tiny Constantine Mercury.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u174	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to point out that the actual mechanism of assignment that we have today, and the recalculation of pensions to scientists can practically be divided into two categories. First of all, they're science workers who have every job they have, and they can retire as civil servants. And for them, the recalculation of the size of the pension is always done when the wages are raised, the corresponding positions of government officials. The second category is scientists who get a pension in accordance with the Law that we passed on science and science and technology. For them, at this time, the recalculation of pensions takes place in the event of an increase in the country's wages by multiplying by the coefficient that corresponds to today's 20 percent increase in the average wage. And it's clear that in this way, the fundamental difference in the pension insurance of scientists is that there is only a minimum of service. So in order for this artificial mechanism that we have today and to eliminate it, we need to avoid dividing scientists into pensions, which is today, not into two categories, but to introduce the same mechanism for recalculating the pensions of scientists and government officials. In view of this, the law itself foresees that if there is an increase in the wages of working scientific, scientific and pedagogical workers in public science institutions and in relation to a person's right to a worker's pension, a recalculation of previously appointed pensions is made. The very adoption of this law gives rise to an even higher level of scientific potential in our country, because we know that today the scale of our science of experts who are now engaged in this difficult business practically solves the powerful potential both in the economy and in the general industry of our nation. After this bill, we have a positive decision from the Scientific and Experimental Council and the Chief Executive. Therefore, if there are any comments regarding this bill, we are ready to consider or merge them with the bill that Kosinov introduced and accept as a basis. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u175	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, Kosto Mercuryovich is sick, they say. Then please, the People's Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich, your bill. Get ready for Mirimsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Head, national deputies, voters. To develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to improve the pension provision of scientific workers was prompted by numerous appeals from scientists and academic and pedagogical workers who had to work for a period of time in the local self-government system, as well as by the desire for scientific and self-governance enterprises and bodies to come to work in high-level personnel. During and after work, such professionals should be adequately protected, including the right to return to their previous work, taking into account their work experience, both scientific and self-governance. There are few such workers in the state. Appropriately, they should be kept in mind and supported materially. Now, about the proposals made to the bill. Article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities defines that for scientific, scientific and technical workers who have moved to the authorities of the State for positions that are valid in law for the public service, for scientific work at state enterprises, for institutions, for organizations, for the internship of the public service, and for the contrary. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the Act on State Service is extended to officials of local self-government. This expansion became invalid due to the validity of chapter 5, paragraph 5, of the above - mentioned law on the basis of the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities, which was adopted on June 7, 2001. For the purpose of the legislative settlement of the matter, it is proposed to complete part 27 of article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities after the words "to the office of a civil servant" with the words "or an official of local self-government authorities" and beyond the text. But after the words "public service," add "or services in local government" to the text. After the words "pre-service" complete "or services in local self-government" and continue to follow the text. The proposed changes are supported by the Parliamentary Committee on Science and Education, Pensioners and Veterans. The Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill will allow for the restoration of the possibility of mutual accounting of the work of science and service in local self-government authorities to ensure the proper social guarantees of employees of these spheres of employment. I hope that fellow MPs will also respond with understanding to the proposals and support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputies of Mirimsky. None. Then I invite you from the committee. From the profile committee, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education. Please, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! All these laws are perfectly logical laws and they complement the law, they just complement the law on scientific and scientific engineering. Let me repeat once again the content of each law, although the authors have told them quite thoroughly. Pinzenik suggests that those who retire, who have a scientific career in state scientific institutions, but who retire from non-state institutions, or from government and non-budgetary institutions, be paid a pension allowance at the expense of the State Budget, as is done by those who retire from state budget institutions. I think it's fair that if Viktor Mikhailovich now, as finance minister, supports his bill, he can be accepted on the basis. The second bill, which is submitted by Deputy Kosinov, is a perfectly normal bill, and I will not repeat these arguments, which he himself said, can be fully accepted. As far as the bill submitted by the deputies Volkov and Billoval is concerned, I must say that the law of Timoshenko and Sitnik is somewhat broader than that law, although this law could also be passed. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko and Kostko Mercuryovich Sitnik, who unfortunately is not here right now, are proposing that those scientists who have retired until the law on scientific and scientific and technical activities has been passed to receive the same pensions as those who have retired after the law has become effective. There are very few of them. And I think that the project that Julia Volodymyr and Kost Merkuriovich proposed could be accepted. If this bill is adopted, it overlaps with the bill proposed by the Volks and Bills deputies. Finally, the bill introduced by Deputy Orzhachowski is a perfectly normal bill. He requires that government officials include those who work in local self - government. The bill introduced by the deputy Mirimsky is also a normal bill. He suggests that what relates to the right of those who retire should be excluded from the definition of the average wage from which the pension is made, 60 days of work, but not less than 10 percent of the total length of service, should also apply to scientific fellow workers, this rule is also true. Therefore, in summary, although negative decisions have been made in relation to certain bills, I believe that all the bills can be adopted in the first reading, so that they can be merged into a single bill: amendments to the Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technical Activities -- a bill tabled by Deputy Kosinov could be adopted as a whole. And it's over. I still have two minutes. And finally, I'd like to say more about what was made of the observation that I was opposed to raising the pensioner's salary to 284 dollars, and now 326. I'm not against it, but I think during the election campaign, responsible people cannot make economic diversifications that cost the budget 13 billion or 15 billion dollars a year, and there is no money in the budget. This is not a rule of normal and decent people. So while I'm going back to the bill, I would ask the Supreme Council to accept all the bills as a basis for the first reading and allow the committee on science and education to put them into the only draft for the second reading, which will take all the amendments into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u179	Thank you, Yugor Raphaelovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u180	A. can be taken completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u181	Have a seat, please. Yeah, let's get down to business. Carmazine. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Block of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Of course, everyone in our country would like to receive the pension of government officials, at least 80 percent of the wages. The difference between the amount of the assigned pension under the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technical Activities and the amount of pensions calculated according to other legislative acts to which a scientific worker is entitled is financed for some, at the expense of the State Budget, at other level 3 and 4 educational institutions, for others it is for the state. [[These are the scientific staff of the budgetary scientific institutions.]] For scientists of state-owned enterprises, institutions, institutions of higher education institutions, at the expense of these enterprises, institutions, organizations, institutions and public budget funds, the proportion to be determined by Kabmin. I want to ask, Your Honor, is there a full justification today that says that we find 450 million dollars. And I answer that question negatively, coming out of the array of documents that I've read. Should we not accept the offer that there is? There are several suggestions and thoughts on this subject. Obviously, by adopting the law, and by adopting scientific and scientific and technical activities, we were thinking less about those officials who worked in local self-government. We were thinking about those individuals who are to move ahead today with the science of Ukraine. That's what we were thinking. And as a result, I would suggest doing so. So far this bill has been adopted in the first reading, and now it's going to shake every line and not mix it all together, because now it's all mixed up: the public service and the service in the local self-government, although we passed this law later, and now everybody wants the same pension. And it cannot be received earlier than the pensions of officials of local self - government, rather than the law. Let's get out of this. Tom, I think that the first reading of this law can be adopted, but you still have to be very careful, get conclusions from both the budget committee, and the Ministry of Finance, and the Committee on Finance, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, Communist faction. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u184	The Communist faction. Rodionov. Dear radio listeners! Dear National Deputies! The urgency of this problem is reflected in the fact that in the last two months alone, about 100 appeals have been made to the committee on pension issues for scientists. I'm the only one who's had 30 calls like that. As the Communist faction and the members of this committee, I would like to point out that most of the correspondence points to the lack of time frame and the imperfection of the mechanism for calculating pensions, the need to improve the number of positions of scientific staff assigned to the pension. Attention is drawn to the inadequacy of certain regulations and instructions. Let me remind you, for example, of these. According to the instructions of the Pension Fund, scientists are required to provide guidance on the placement of organizations in the scientific institution, on the confirmation of the fact that they are engaged in scientific activities, on the availability of scientific work, and on what is not provided for today. Some people retire for 9-12 months. Moreover, the average wage is not always taken into account. Many references from scientific organizations and institutions to the deterioration of their financial situation, or bankruptcy for the burden of pension payments to scientists who once worked in these institutions. And now, specifically by law. I want to add a little bit about the law: the Communist faction supports all legislation. I would like to add by law 5251 to remind you that such a proposal has already been proposed by our Committee and has been adopted, but the President of Ukraine vetoed the Law voted in Parliament on this very issue. So in the current edition, you know, there's an injustice about pension insurance. It seems to me that this injustice is levelled by the law of Pinzenic. The bill introduced by Kosinov, the National MP, seems to me to be in a position to vote on it now. The bill introduced by Volkov is, in fact, said to be reflected in the Timoshenko bill, but the bill refers only to persons who are in state institutions. But this isn't about rich scientists working in former scientific research institutes. So I'm proposing Orzhachowski's bill, I think maybe today, as they say, and in general, I'm proposing all of these bills to vote and support scientists who are said to have adopted laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u185	Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, will be followed by Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u186	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. A package of bills under the general heading on amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities is indeed aimed at improving the conditions of pension for scientific and scientific teachers. On the other hand, the very existence of such a number of bills that we are currently considering and analysing is obviously evidence of some flaws and gaps, both in our legislation and obviously in the bills themselves. So I want to support my colleagues' efforts to sort out this area of interest of a large army of scientists, deserving people, often-thought movers with a view to upholding the principle of justice and equality where it is lacking, and confidence in the future of people who have given science the better years of their lives. Having been familiar with the submission of national deputies and their accompanying materials, I believe that the proposals should be accepted, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education should be entrusted with the drafting of draft laws, with the exception of clearly rejected ones, and should submit a single draft for second reading on their basis. At the same time, I have some specific warnings about them. So one of the bills, namely our colleague, and now Minister Victor Pinzenic, although supported by the Committee on Science and Education, contains, I think, a somewhat questionable proposal. Its implementation or implementation of this proposal can lead to a level playing field in the pension provision of scientific, scientific and pedagogical employees of state budgetary institutions, I quote, and scientific organizations of all forms of property at the expense of the State Budget. This is not only an additional burden on the budget but also the encouragement of the commercialised sector to the detriment of the state. There is nothing against commercial colleges, but not at the expense of the state. When institutions and universities are growing up today, like mushrooms after the rain, this approach is quite risky. There's a lot of committee leaders here, and you're taking interns from different universities and you're seeing a great difference between the graduates of the classic basic serious higher education institutions and some very well-distorted, but let's say not so high-quality graduates. Additional funds will also be needed by Orzhachowski’s MP. It foresees the dissemination of article 24 on science and technology to local self-governance officials in the area of traineeship calculation to obtain a higher pension. I think we can let that happen, but we can limit this category. I mean, if these people came from science to public service, then yes, otherwise they get, sorry, something unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u188	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, higher education requires major changes in the mechanisms for the formation and implementation of state science and science and technology policies in Ukraine. Although the pension must be at the right level. Having entered a new market relationship, Ukraine’s higher school should be in line with the new trend of modern times. Although the number of colleges is increasing, demand for specialty is changing, the market and school are learning to understand each other, but it is sad that over the course of 13 years in the development of science, there has been a decline in capital investment more than six times. With each year the number of graduates increases, but the question arises: How much will experts be needed? Secondly, why is there a shortage of skilled professionals today? Whom are they waiting for today? When we analyze the situation in the labor market, the following picture is drawn. The demand for management is almost 49 percent, accounting is 49 percent, banks and finance is 38 percent, and sociology and humanities are 1.8 percent. Such a situation should cause the Ministry of Education to be alarmed and not think that education is on the rise. Today requires a large number of professionals who should be ready to deal with the current economic problems. As for pensions for scientists, this issue should be dealt with informally and with the full responsibility of the orange authorities. And the rest of the time I have, please, Adam Ivanovich, pass the Ginsburg to Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u189	Please, Hinsburg microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u190	I thank my colleague and you, Adam Ivanovich. I just wanted to say a few words. The thing is, we're looking at six laws right now. Every law has a very important proposal in it, and it has to improve the lives and pensions of our science and technology workers. But that's the question. And here, when you're in the district, you're always asking these questions about the science and technology pension: that's the second, that's the third, that's the number of suggestions. I don't understand why the government can't take all the suggestions and make a normal law on scientific and technical retirement. And that would be very normal for our citizens and for us as MPs, because all of our proposals are voiced and made. Why is the government sitting and waiting today for one of the deputies to suddenly pass a bill? And if he doesn't, then what? Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u191	Yes, please, with Proscuratov's motives, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u192	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. I thank all the authors of these bills, which are aimed at the retirement of scientific and technological workers. But I want to make a warning. Bill 5152-1. According to part 25 of that article, the 24th Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, after the appointment of pensions, scientists can work as part of a contract of employment. And as a result, there is a situation where, if a scientist worked after the appointment of a pension under a contract, his pension is counted by the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine. And if he was working on a fixed-term employment contract, he wasn't. And so in the process of redrafting for second reading, we propose a single bill, based on the proposal of the above-mentioned bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u193	Thank you. Yes, please, Toločko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u194	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's the only Ukrainian faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to the first law. He was questioned, particularly in the speech of his colleague Zarubinsky. In fact, I don't see a big colossus here, because in a classical sense, we don't have any, we don't have all, we don't have half or more unions. And secondly, in those so-called "non-state universities" are our people, our professors, who for many, 30 years, may have worked and in the state college, pay taxes to our state, teach our children for the state. So I don't think we need to divide scientists here into white and black. Let's support all the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u195	Please, Black Mike, one minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u196	Dear colleagues! I'm also in favour of supporting the bill, but at the same time, I would like to point out that we also need to change the pension insurance law. In fact, all pension issues need to be resolved there. Of course, it's a crazy situation now, because some get pensions, others get pensions, others, depending on when they retire -- or the adoption of a law on scientific activity or after. That's why we have to take it. But at the same time, I have a question for the profile committee: what was the purpose of passing six bills, essentially the same thing? Could it not have been at the stage of preparing them to invite the authors to reconcile positions, they were practically agreed, and put one bill into the session room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u197	It could be, but it's the right of the author of the legislative initiative. On the first reading, no committee can interfere with what the author wrote. So we don't have any claims here to the committee. Yes, please, Minister of Education Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u198	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The previous speaker has completely grasped the essence of the problem that stands today, and I don't think there's anyone in this room against, let's say, inadequacies that arise in the establishment of pension insurance for science and science and teaching staff, for scientific workers, in order to bring about these contradictions. But still -- there was a question here -- we couldn't, let's say, MPs all reject bills, or everyone approve -- and make one. [[I was the chairman of the committee at the time.]] So let's say I'm proposing on behalf of the government such a compromise. Let's take, for example, two bills that don't cause any comments in the government or in the MPs, we'll take them as a basis, and we'll assign the rest to the Committee of Science and Education, to the Ministry of Education, to the Ministry of Labor, to make one of these seven bills consistent and bring it to the session of the Supreme Council. I would suggest that 5152-1 and 5152-5 be the basis, and then the rest, based on them, be included in a single bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u199	Thank you. Please, Deputy Minister of Social Work, Mr. Hotch Helen Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u200	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank you and inform you that last year the pension authorities listed pensions for all scientists in accordance with the new edition of article 24 of the Science and Technology Act. From March 1st this year, the government will ensure that pensions are recalculated in line with the increase in wages for scientific workers. We received a job from the government: to work out a new law for two months, taking into account the proposals and comments of the national MPs. People’s deputies in Hinzburg, other national deputies have made a proposal today that there are many other suggestions regarding this law. We're ready to work with the people's deputies on this. In view of what has been said, please support the government’s view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Dear colleagues, let's define by vote, because now we're going to do with the lines that we're not going to accept. Well, you reported it. You've already reported it. Yes, I'll put it to a vote. Be careful, get ready! Dear colleagues, in order to make it easier for you to understand, I'm going to call the bill number and the author. Okay? It is based on the first reading of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology. [[on pension insurance]] I'm going to call these bills in turn just their registration numbers. Voting number 5152. Please vote. [[13:32:53]] For 272 I think we made a nice gift to the Minister of Finance. Yeah. It is based on the first reading of Bill 5152-1, author of the National MP Kosinov Stanislav Anatoliyovich. Please vote. [[13:33:33]] For 284 The law is supported. Puts the vote to the vote. Dear colleagues, when there is a vote, no reply, no conversation I will not allow, it is broken by the Rules. It's based on the first reading of Bill 5152-2, by Volkov, by Bill Bill. Please vote. [[13:34:12]] For 261 Copy that. Bill 5152-3, the authors of the People's Deputies Timoshenko and Sitnik, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:34:45.]] For 247 I think we gave the Prime Minister a small gift. The vote on adoption is based on the first reading of Bill 5152-4, author of the national MP Orzhachowski. Please vote. [[13:35:17]] For 258. Copy that. There is another vote, the last one of this series, bill number 5152-5, author of the national MP Mirimsky. Please vote. [[13:35:48]] For the 250. Copy that. So, honourable colleagues, all the bills are accepted. Now we have to ask the profile committee to prepare a generalized bill for the second reading. The question, your honor, is closed. The suggestions were made when we discussed them. Please, Yukhnovsky, offer, minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u202	Dear Adam Ivanovich! All right, we're working on these laws at the Committee, but two laws, namely 5152-1, 5152-5, are obvious laws, they can be passed in general right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, we cannot accept it because there are observations and fair remarks that these bills need additional allocations. What is it? You all get it. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u204	Igor Shurma, faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine united. I would ask everyone who listens to the broadcast of today's session and refers to people who have an interest in solving this issue to raise the results of the vote, starting with Lviv, ending with Donetsk. To look at the factions: who initiated those laws before the beginning of the presidential race and how many voters today voted in favour of them? At that time, we will see that those who serve the people, and those who are simple, are engaged in political cracking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u205	Yes. Dear colleagues, please use parliamentary statements. Let us now consider the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on education. Bill number 3557. The bill was drafted by the national MP, Bespalij Boris Jakovic. Then please, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education from the Profile Committee, please. From a minute, please, Igor Rafailovich. Do you want to get out of here? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u206	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies, we have considered a very detailed project proposed by Deputy Bespali, which makes some legal clarifications about the legal status of the law. And I believe that the Law can be adopted in the first reading in order to reconcile the legal terms and so forth that are in the Education Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please, then, of those who sign up, who insists? Carmazine. Prepare Hinzburg
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National MPs, this law, it's very bad that we don't have a report on the matter, but we only have a report to the committee. I think Adam Ivanovich should be removed. And it still can't be tolerated because people are calling and saying what the bill is about. I have to do these functions, I'm going to do them, but that's very wrong. The bill provides for amendments to a number of laws: education, general secondary education, pre-school education, higher education, i.e. four legislative amendments. The changes are proposed to deprive the local authorities of the State’s executive authority of the need to determine the need for municipal education facilities, to remove the requirement for simultaneous approval in the local authorities of the State executive branch and local self-government of the statutes of public education institutions, which are communal property, and to establish education, in addition to higher education institutions based on other forms of ownership. It is also suggested that special public education schools, schools, children's homes, preschools and other educational institutions be set up for people who have disabilities not only in physical or mental development but also separately in mental health. So actually, the changes that we've been looking at today are also about these changes. The draft law also defines how to index the cost of learning, including the cost of teaching is proposed to index not more than once a calendar year according to the official inflation rate of the previous year. Because there has been an abnormal situation in public education institutions where payments are raised twice a year. Once people pay one fee, then they're told it's going to cost a thousand dollars more. People can't get that kind of pay, it's completely uncounted. It's in all state schools in the form of pay-per-view education when it's recognized that there's no inflation. Why, then, does it increase? This is in particular the proposals for article 64 of the Higher Education Act, which now records the salary for the entire period of education or for the provision of additional educational services is set up by a higher educational institution in the money unit of Ukraine bracelets. Because they've already decided to set up $2.5 thousand per semester some Kyiv educational institutions. Where do they get this money? More like a year, I'm sorry. And still, positive changes are being proposed here, and the salary for the entire term is set out in a contract made between a higher education institution and a person. Since there's a minister of education here, I'd like to go to him and suggest he adopts this law in the first reading, so that he can consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u209	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Hinzburg, the Communist faction. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u210	Thank you. Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 conotopian constituency. I wanted to stress some of the situations under this law that caused concern. That's the first one. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Preschool Education are intended to eliminate the situation in which the facilities of the displaced state and municipal preschool institutions can be used solely for working with children. I mean, if the nursery's already closed, you can use it for whatever you want. This can't be accepted. The availability of such provisions can lead to a severe reduction in the number of public and municipal preschools. And the main thing. The draft law proposes to change the school age in secondary school. In particular, training is offered to begin at the age of six. The father is no longer able to speak at seven or six years of age, but only six of them are capable. But using my time, I would like to address you with such interesting views. Do you realize what's going on with our children today? Today our children are in schools where there is no heat, they freeze, they sit in top clothes. Today, teachers who have to provide for their education are concerned about their battle problems. They, if they're in the villages, have their own land. In the villages today, they worry that they have no place to plant, for they have not been given land pews of these. Today, self - cooking flourishes in villages, and many parents sing. And no one fights this self-inflicted self-indulgence! They trade mainly in all the villages, and the people degrade. In rural areas today, children who study in schools and who are underprivileged do not receive. This is my district: for almost three years, not a penny to raise and to feed in smaller, younger classes. And I also wanted to say, and this is the main thing that can be done by example, that once after the war, when there was a great upheaval in our country, the first thing the Soviet State did, she took care of the orphans. This was the main task of the State. And we have to talk about it all the time today. The main task of the state, when it comes to loving law, should be to raise our children to be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u211	Yes, please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. He'll be followed by Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u212	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I would like to paralyse with the opinion of the committee on this bill, particularly in part, quote: "The committee, in general, supporting the idea of improving the current education legislation, notes that the proposed changes are largely editorial in nature." That's what, and here's the editorial character, no change suggests. These are major changes. Some I can agree with and offer to agree with my colleagues, some of whom I do not. Well first of all, really, when it's six years of start-up for everyone, and if a kid according to some indicator can't start to make it an exception, it's obviously appropriate. If there's six or seven years left in law, let's be honest, Let's count 7 plus 12 is 19. So not only do we build maternity homes near schools, but we build military barracks, because at the age of 19, the young person who comes out is a 19-year-old young man who, under other laws, has to serve in the army. What's going on here? Is it a total delay? After all, as I think for six years, there must be a general norm in the possibility of certain exclusions. First position. The second position I support. It's suggested that apart from boarding schools to correct physical and mental development, by the way, today we had an appropriate bill, we had mental development institutions. Let's agree that these are different things. But on the other hand, here I can agree with the committee's point of view on the lack of sufficient financial and economic justification for the bill. It's clear that the creation of a whole profile network or network of institutions that I've said to correct the child's mental development will require absolutely real costs. It may not be on a very large scale, but it's still a real cost. Which I can't agree with, and I think you guys are going to support. Today, there is a position, and it is part of article 64, part six, on higher education in the law: school fees cannot change throughout the year. The bill suggests that I don't want to say that it's a deliberate norm, but it's an option where it can't change more than once a year. So it can change. True, it says so, given the inflation. What if inflation is 10-12-20 percent? Apparently, the parents and the child who is learning are counting on a certain salary? So I think we should leave the situation that exists today. There are still a few moments, but I can see that time is coming. I think we can accept this bill in the first reading, because there are certain positives, but we need to work on it for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u213	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u214	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I am the father of two children who learned during Soviet education, and I never agree that the current legislation on education is outdated and has a negative impact on the development of current education in Ukraine. It is not difficult, but it must be admitted that the Soviet education system itself is progressive. This has been recognized far beyond the former Soviet Union. Why can't we say openly and honestly today, in what corner of education is the dead end, we are silent about the tragic consequences of the educational process? Because there is no place to tell the truth, children, the level and quality of the disciples have been greatly reduced. From year to year, schools have failed to implement the curriculum, and the educational process in schools has declined to the impossible. I will give just a few examples that are the result of today’s teaching and training. For example, in October / November of last year, 971 persons between 13 and 17 years of age were brought to criminal responsibility in Ukraine, of whom 357 were middle school students, 250 of whom were mostly intoxicated. 73 illegal drug acts have been reported. It's only two months, and how many times in a year? And what has been the latest on the 12-bal system of student knowledge assessment and the 12-year deadline? Nothing. And that's what the Minister of Education was talking about. And we're saying today that it's logical and correct to start school at six? But the training of six - year - olds did not justify itself. Has the physical, mental, and mental state of children been forgotten? Because of the guilt of the Reformers at the time, the number of special public schools for children who were in dire need of physical, mental, and mental correction was known to have increased. And we need to think about these government officials today. The proposed changes to the Law on Preschool Education will not change both theoretical and practical. I never support the proposed changes to start school from the age of six. And I would advise the new minister of education to start reforming not by joining the Bologna Process, but by taking more into account our experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u215	Yes, please, proscurate minutes of motive, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u216	Thank you. Proscuratova, the faction of SDPU(O). First of all, as a primary school teacher, I can say that this bill allowed parents to choose for themselves when to send a child to school at 6 or 7 years of age. Sometimes a 5-year-old child, at 5.5 years of age, can accept material, has a well-formed thinking, has a communication function, and there's a kid who's not ready to go to school yet at 7 years of age, and that's why this bill deprives them of that possibility, leaving them only 6 years of age. And if a particular child is not ready to attend school when he is six years old, he is not. is exposed to the risk of severe mental injury as a result of retardation from more advanced and capable peers. And that's why this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but in the second reading, I think we should take into account all the changes and suggestions that have been made here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u217	Please, what are the Ministry's proposals?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u218	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Nikolainka, Minister of Education and Science. I would like to say that it was very nice in the whole discussion, but we need more, I think, to take a closer look at the essence of this bill. First of all, I know that several similar bills are already on the committee of science and education. I see. That this bill can in principle be adopted in the first reading and then passed all these bills, which are already several pieces on the committee that was adopted in the first reading, in one and have a discussion on each chapter. And reverend Adam Ivanovich, a few replicas. Here we talked about, let's say, six-year-old learning and they said that the reforms, they're now starting to reform. I want to tell my countryman who said that at Bogdanov High School in Kirovgrad, where he, the 6-year experiment started in 1968, when he headed the School of the Socialist Work Hero Tkachenko, you know, he ended in 1972, and it was about five to six years later, six years later across the Soviet Union. So, if you'll excuse me, 1991 doesn't have anything to do with six-year-olds, it was done a long time ago. My point is to write in the law that only six years old. In the current norm of the Education Act, it usually allows those children who, for example, did not form on a psychological, physical scale to become, let's say, stronger in the family, and then go to school. What if, on September 1st, a child is five years old and eight months old? It's not like he's six, and he's ready for school. So I think the working norm that works is normal. But, Adam Ivanovich! Note the article 4 where foreign citizens are offered training by the author to follow the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Would the Supreme Council of Ukraine give further consent to whom to teach, from which country? I think the government, the Ministry of Education will figure it out. As far as the pay for education is concerned, the government's programme clearly states in the measures that we will propose to increase the percentage of free education at the expense of the budget. And in terms of pay for learning, it should, of course, take into account the change in prices for utilities and pay for work, if it is the decision of the government to do so either by the decision of the Supreme Council or by the budget. Thus, the law can be adopted in the first reading and included in one bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u219	Thank you. Please, Yukhnowsky, one minute. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u220	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's about foreign citizens. This law states that foreign citizens can learn in Ukraine according to treaties but treaties ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think it's the right thing to do. It's about paying for your education. This project suggests that if you have paid in full, let’s say, for all five years of schooling, the salary remains the same and does not depend on indexation. But if you've paid for three years and after three years you start paying for two more years, then the inflation that's occurred over these three years is already being calculated. In general, I believe that the Law can be adopted in the first reading, with these comments being taken into account by the deputies. It's about six years of learning. All of Europe learns from six years of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-02-m0.u221	Yes. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on adoption on the basis of the first reading of the draft Education Act. Registration number 3557, please identify yourself. [[13:57:26]] For-92 Not supported, bill rejected. Yes. Dear colleagues, well, we probably won't be able to examine the bill in three minutes, so I'm going to introduce you to one more announcement, in accordance with article 4.2.1 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules and the minutes of the meeting of the Communist Party MPs of Ukraine since February 4, this year, I'm going to inform you about the exclusion of the Ukrainian national MPs, Anatoly Mikolaiovich, Olija Boris Iliè and Sinchenka Sergey Grigorovovich from the Communist Party. Dear colleagues, this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is being declared open, and we are working now, in private, we are now working in factions, committees and groups. Tomorrow's the beginning, as always at 10 o'clock.
