ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Let's register. [[16:03:07]] There are 398 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. As you and I have decided at the morning session, the evening begins with the question of our debt to the judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Your Honorable colleagues, the Honourable Chief of the Supreme Court, are asking questions of the day's order regarding the judges. First of all, there is Bill No. 8283, 8284, regarding the dismissal of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Kostice, Michael Vasilovich and Mironka, Alexander Mikolaiovich, in connection with their application for resignation, in connection with the nine - year term of office of the judge. There is the address of the former head of the Constitutional Court of Mikola Selon. The committee considered the matter. I don't think there's any legal problems here. I think we should vote for this submission. You have draft regulations on your hands. So please make such a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to release the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in accordance with article 126, paragraph 9, of the fifth part. [[Registration number 8283]] 149 The Constitution of the Supreme Council stipulates: To release Kostick Mikhail Vasilovich from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[16:05:24]] For 288 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Order 8284, corresponding to the release of Mironek Aleksandr Mikolayovich from the post of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[16:05:55]] For 285 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, these are the judges who were represented in the Constitutional Court by quota and by decision of the Supreme Council. I think we have every reason after nine years of their work in the Constitutional Court to say thanks today to Alexander Mikolaiovich and Mikhail Vasilovich for being well represented by the Supreme Council during these nine years in the Constitutional Court. They were successful in their further work. [[Applause]] Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u4	Project 8304 on the selection of judges to appeal courts and local courts In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, parts of the first article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Court of Ukraine appoint judges on an indefinite basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Opeid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u5	Vasil Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I remind you of our traditional legal procedure, because a special procedure has been established by law. Vasil Vasilovich, from the committee, is proposing nominations. If any of you have any comments, please raise your hand or in some other way let me know, we're going to stop on this candidature, that is, remove it from the general list. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u6	The Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Opieda Valery Alexandrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Elgazin Larissa Pavlovna, Kiyan Svetlana Valentinovna, Olejnik Ludmila Sergiyevna; To the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Bocharnikov Sergija Olegovich, Potter Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u7	Please, it's Baburin's microphone. Po.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u8	Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u9	A potter? Yes, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u10	Slain Hannah Stepanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Srol Valentin Rostislavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk District of the Guard Sergey Alexanderovich; the Court of Appeal of the Nikolai district of Sholoh Zou Leonidivna; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Krugov Svetlana Samuelna; The Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Pavlenko Ludmila Alexiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u11	So, Vasil Vasilovich, do you have a Pavlovenko? Yes, please, Pauline. Who? By Pauline, please. No, I mean the last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u12	To the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Zhareshniak Galina Mikolayevna, Shalny's Tetjana Pavlovna; the Court of Appeal of the City of Sevastopol, Harchenk Mikola Sergiyovich; the local Red Cross Regional Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Zinkov Viktor Ivanovich; the local Simferopol district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Šofarenko Yuri Fedorovich; the local Soviet District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Avramida Tetjana Stanislavna; the local Railway District Court of Simferopol Serduk Alexandr Sergiyovich; the local Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Receburin Jury Josephovich; the local Vinogradiv district court of the Zakarpat district of Levka Taras Juriovich; the local Tachiv district court of the Zakarpat district of Rozman Mikhail Mikhailovich; the local Rožnetov district court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Pulik Mikhail Vasilovich; the local Pásnánské district court of the Luhansk district of Zakopyl Vitali Anatoliyovich; The local Lubotic City Court of Kharkiv County of Polishchuk Tetjana Viktorovna; the local Polonsky District Court of the Hmelnick district of Gorštár Anatoly Grigorovich; The local District District Court of Chernigiv County, Larissa Anatolovna. There is no complaint, they have passed through the Higher Qualifying Commission, there is support for the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the filing of the Supreme Court. There were no comments on the committee either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, therefore, we will now vote with you on the draft Order 8304 on the election of judges, with the exception of the candidates of Potter Alexander Sergiyovich and Pavelenko Ludmila Aleksiyevne, this is the judge of the Court of Appeal in the Zaporezki and Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote. Is there a question? Please, question the court specifically, or at all? Yes, Widowie, please, microphone. Just let's be specific, not about anything at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u14	Specifically. Vasil Vasilovich, I have this question to all the judges, and because of you, I'd like to ask you to answer and let them know. From September 1, the Law entered into force that court hearings take place in the national language. Today, in Ukraine, an international convention of Ukrainian languages opened in the teacher’s home yesterday, today, and tomorrow. And I was at this convention and a lot of, yes, 22 countries, by the way, are present, except for the Ukrainian representatives. They ask: How does this Law work, what problems do judges have, I would ask you about, do they know that they need to do the Law, or do they not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u15	Thank you. I briefly, Hennady Josephovich, indeed, the judges know that they are governed by the new CBC and the Code of Administrative Judiciality, which reflects the position of the Constitution, article 10, but now at the Committee, we have two bills on the Committee that relate to this situation to change. So the question will be with the Supreme Council, with us. Whether we support something else or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u16	Yes. I put to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges for the expulsion of judges Potter and Pavelek. [[Registration number 8304]] Please vote. [[16:12:46]] For 316 Decision taken. Yes, please, I'm asking you to use the microphone of Gonchar Alexander Sergiyovich. Please turn on Baburin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u17	Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u18	Baburin, Communist faction of Zaporozhye. I've got some questions for Potter. You have received complaints of gross disregard for the participants in the process, and I have participated in your trials. And he found that these complaints were objective, including the fact that you kicked me out of the courtroom, and offered to leave the room in rough shape. As you judge your actions, as you judge your decision, when you're a professor of philosophy, a professor of science, and I consider the actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office to be intentional, you're condemning as a bribe as a water heater. And third. You're going to the judge's office on an open-ended basis today. If you're doing this at 31 years old, what are you waiting for if you're confirmed on the Supreme Council today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u19	Yes, please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u20	Thank you for asking. It's about the first question. All the questions I've been asked touch the criminal case against the defendant. Alexander Mikolaiovich, who was convicted by me, was found guilty, indeed, of getting bribed in the form of a water heater. The proceedings were conducted by means of a full fixation of the trial. I think I acted within the framework of the law. I'm by no means a judge of any kind allowing myself some kind of free will that enters into civilian incision. Criminal Procedure Code. The course of my consideration was fixed on technical media, on disks. They're involved in a criminal case. I have a criminal case under consideration. found guilty of committing a crime, but was released from amnesty. The criminal case was upheld by the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal. I did not do anything with my own approval. Which means that I haven't done anything wrong. I also want to point out that this case was really relevant, resonant, it consisted of one case and four volumes of complaints. Complaints were directed to the people’s deputies of Stretovich, Vasil Timothyovich. Check. The Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye Region has repeatedly carried out examinations. There was no blame for my conduct or other wrongdoing. There are official answers to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u21	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, we don't have that question on the committee. But since I listened to Judge Alexander Sergiyovich, I believe that his explanation is convincing. Because if the court’s decision is legally binding, we cannot evaluate it. We can give people an estimate, but there can't be an extra vessel control. With regard to someone being removed, someone from the courtroom, we need to determine the situation. Perhaps if there has been a violation of the case, the judge has that right. It is provided for in the Codex. The committee supports and requests that you support this candidate. Babura's microphone, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u23	I draw attention to the fact that Judge Gonchar has not specifically answered one of my questions. And I, Vasil Vasilyevich, am bringing it to your attention. After he found out, he didn't know that I was a national MP, after he found out that I was a national MP, the trial went on a normal course, civilized. I stayed in the room as a national deputy, and at first as a regular participant in the process I was. They offered to kick me out of the hall. Do you understand me?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I, for example, allow such a situation. And here, I think the judge should conclude. If you look at it, it should be considered forever, regardless of who's in the courtroom. But that is no reason for us to break this person’s fate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u25	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting for the termless judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye district of Potter Alexander Sergiyovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:18:29]] For-137 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u26	Adam Ivanovich, then I ask that the committee be entrusted so that we can examine these circumstances further and bring them up to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u27	In view of the fact that we have twice the right to consider a judge’s candidature, let the committee study these questions in detail, and we will return to this once more. Please, Pavlenko Ludmila Alexiyevna to the microphone. Yes, there was a note from Vasil Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u28	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that for over a year and a half, Judge Pavlovenko has not been able to pass through the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you could see today that such a judge has no right to go through. and be chosen for life. If many Churchmen have arrived and the Supreme Council demands that such a judge should not be dishonored by the honor of a judge, I personally have been facing such a judge for over a year and a half. I've only got eight complaints. I can list specific cases, not to mention that the judge has a lot of complaints from both the judges and the inhabitants of the Church. It is sufficient to take just one example, such as in its own time, the organization of tenants disappeared, suddenly, from the so-called operation of the region of Chercas, the Sidorchuk case. And now we do see what's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u29	Fucker, Chercassie, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u30	Fucking Communist faction. I address the hall and, above all, the governing bodies of the Supreme Court, and you, Vasil Vasilovich. How can people approach you through us, through MPs, and from different areas. And for a year and a half, the question of Pauline’s being chosen as a permanent judge of appeal is raised. I handed a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council yesterday to us, to the deputies of the people, to the common people who came here today with posters and stood. They came to me at the reception and said, "How can you vote for such a person?" That's because she was already in the hall. I can, I have enough material to call the applicants' names. All our statements are addressed to the one who is being complained of — the Cherkas District Court and him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u31	Vassil Vasilovich, you may want to write down some more questions, and then you may answer, as it were, the committee's point of view, and you will answer those who were. Please, Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u32	Thank you. Sergey Tereshuk, Cherkaščina. I was just about to say something else. First of all, when a judge makes a decision, he sets someone up against himself. Therefore, the judge cannot satisfy everyone completely. That's the first one. The other one. Many facts have been cited that labor groups have been deprived of their rights. All decisions made by Judge Paulenko were confirmed in the Supreme Court. And the last. Last but not least, it was based on the law, working groups. And the last. I have a ruling from the District Attorney’s Office on October 19 that there is no reason to open a criminal case. I've shown my fellow MPs, and I can show you that. And the last. I personally have no reason not to trust Vasil Vasilovich or Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk. They may have studied these matters more closely than they did with their emotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u33	Please, Alexander Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u34	Alexander Marchenko. I have before me a decision by a court that annuls a court decision taken by Judge Pavlenko regarding the prohibition of prosecutorial custody. That's the first one. And the second decision, which also invalidates the court’s decision regarding the decision of Judge Paulenko to appeal to another judge regarding the protection of honor and dignity. I want to tell you that there are already two decisions by the higher court office that confirm the vague position of Judge Paulenko. I would like the committee to listen to a judge whom Mrs. Pavelenko, her name is Korshon. But these materials are on the committee. And I'd like to take this off right now and bring it back to the committee and work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u35	Mikola Onichtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u36	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Respectable candidates for judges! Obviously, we should exercise some caution when it comes to such human and professional material as judges, because it is not as easy to prepare them as a quality professional judge. And in view of this, I would like to inform you that, on my behalf, a collective letter from the citizens of Cherkasa indicates that we are asking to protect an honest and just person and a judge of the Church Court of Appeal, Pavlenko, who in 2001 in spite of the pressure of corrupt power, adopted laws and a fair decision, and protected the property rights of shareholders of the company "The Youth". Then she paid for her work. So far, she has been subjected to psychological and moral pressures. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support the judge in view of the committee's decision, which has analysed this situation in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u37	Sharov, please. Igor Sharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u38	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, had a somewhat unusual situation in view of the judge’s election. On the one hand came the Communist brothers asking for no support; on the other hand came the Communist nationalists asking for support. In this regard, I ask you to put the question aside, settle down, and then reenter the session room so as not to disrupt the fate of a person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u39	Yes, Andrew Polit, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u40	Andrew Polit faction of the Company. Well, let's say how these support sheets are prepared, we know. You don't have to talk about what someone from the community wrote, so it's a letter of support. I have a lot of letters of complaint against Judge Pavlovenko today, both from individual citizens and from enterprises of various and social organizations. Bitch! And I'm surprised that I've passed on a huge directory to the committee, to a class committee on the illegal activities of Judge Pavlenko, and even the border committee sits, those documents are distributed only in part to the members of the committee. And there's the egregious evidence of a violation. Even before it was Judge Pavlovenko who pressured the judge of the district court to make an improper decision. And for her, isn't that a violation, for this judge, the judge of the district court, she prepared the rapture and she sounded. And then this district judge wrote a complaint against me that I was under pressure, made me read that decision. Isn't that a violation? I ask the Committee to end this mess and remove the judge this time and forever from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, let's go. I see you've got a lot to talk about. Some are already twice the same faction. Ask for more. So let us do as the Rules require. Sign up, I'll give you three more minutes to talk and then we'll figure it out. Please log in. Before the vote, it is necessary. There may be other questions. Yes, please, Nosenko, follow him, the mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u42	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Company. Please give the floor to my colleague Sirenko Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u43	Please, Vasily the Siren microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Supreme Court in this matter. How could the Supreme Court grant the election to a judge who wrote a draft decision for another judge for a district court judge? I'm asking how the Supreme Court could issue an election without delay for the judge who wrote a draft decision for the judge of the district court. That's the first one. The other one. How the Supreme Court could have filed, when the prosecution of a citizen is under way, according to a citizen’s claim to have committed a criminal offence. A citizen was dismissed, but the Supreme Court in three judges overturned all court decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u45	Please, Nicholas Komar. Behind him is Sergey Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u46	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, we must vote and not politicize this issue. I think the committee here is running a political, Vasil Vasilovich, such a game as it should be. The rest of the time, please hand over Pellshell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u47	Alexander Pecklesenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u48	Hell, the "Regions" faction. Dear colleagues, we do not decide the fate of the Supreme Council, we decide the fate of the individual. And you can't do that from the jump, you can't do that in a sense. At the same time, we must listen to the opinions of our colleagues. If we do not respect each other’s opinions, what can we talk about? Therefore, the issue is complex enough, the question is not simple, but it must be remembered that justice in the courts will be fair. I therefore propose that, given the emotional nature of the matter, the politicization of the matter should be postponed under this candidature, that the Committee should be able to reach a final conclusion and make its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u49	Sergei Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u50	Thank you. I'm asking you to give the floor to Rajkov Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u51	Please, Rajkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am an MP in the district where Judge Pavlovenko is. I wish to say that claims may be made to each judge depending on what decisions are taken. I know that two cases, when decisions were taken in favour of a group of two enterprises, raised these issues. I know there's a lot of people in Cherkassas who support the judge today. But given the situation that has arisen, I believe that we should just move on, perhaps today and once again on the Committee to consider this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u53	So, please, so let's now give the next one a chance to make a statement to the judge, the head of the committee and the minister of justice asking for a few words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u54	With regard to the claims made to me by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, these claims apply to two decisions on closed stock companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u55	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! I ask you very much to express your emotions only if you have the right to speak and then express everything you have to vote. Allow me to speak, but she listened to you, listen to her, and she will be denied the word. Vladimir Yeshchenko, please sit down. Keep going. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u56	All my decisions on these matters are aimed at protecting the violated rights of the labour force, violating the rights of those shareholders in which the parental structures have tried and are trying to seize property privatized by law. The conclusions I have drawn in my decision of 15 March 2000 and 7 July 2000 have been fully endorsed by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court’s approval of 31 August of this year has fully led me to do and interpret the law correctly. In addition, there are decisions of the Constitutional Court in the case of Obolen, the case of ZAT “Youngness” and the case “Obolon”, identical. With regard to the claims made to me about Sidorchuk, I took part in the consideration of one question regarding this person. The ruling of the Court of Appeal was upheld by the Supreme Court of Ukraine as early as October 2001. Other questions about Sidorchuk were not resolved. With regard to the other complaints filed with the committee, all of them have been verified and no violations have been found in my actions. With regard to the case where I gave methodical assistance to the judge of the local court, these questions were resolved at all levels by all possible agencies and no institution in my actions to break the law, or any moral code. This judge at the bottom of all the institutions explained that I had given him help at his request after the decision had been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, Sergey Petrovich, later. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u58	Your Honor, during your candidature's discussion, there was information that you had decided to ban the prosecutor's office from taking care of citizens. I'd be wondering if that was really the case, what was the legal basis for prohibiting the prosecution's custody of that decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u59	This was the case of a citizen of Malkwaya, according to the prosecutor's office's statement to prohibit the prosecution's custody of a citizen of Malkwa. The violation of civil rights was not established in connection with the fact that the case itself was dealt with four months after the events in which she actually wanted to take care of the prosecutor’s office. The Supreme Court annulled the Court of Appeal by admitting that the prosecutor’s office was not in a position to make such an application. However, the appeal did not raise the issue, and the Court of Appeal considers the matter within the scope of the appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u60	Yes, please, Vasil Vasilovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, there was also a deep discussion on Pauline’s recommendation to serve as judge. But the committee decided to recommend a small majority of the votes. That's why I'm reporting to the committee today. There are indeed many complaints about Pauline’s activities, but they are related to the normal activity of judges. In particular, there are complaints from a citizen named Fezak, referred to by my colleague or colleague, National Deputy Yeshchenko. It has been established that Fezak’s citizens have approached various courts more than 20 times in about nine years, namely, various cases. These included cases that were brought before Judge Paulenko, who canceled, which went on, that is, to complain that the judge had committed a misdemeanour, could not be done because it was an ordinary trial. There was no gross violation on her part. But I promised my colleagues on the committee and Vasil Fedorovich Sirenka and others that I would report the situation to Paulenko objectively, and, indeed, I would like to draw your attention to your judgment on such a situation that the District Court of Transnistria considered the case of Draganyuk and Dorabischuk as to the illegal establishment of documents and the annulment of the state registration of ZAT "Anverstrade" The decision of the court was annulled twice by the Court of Appeal. Then she was given methodical assistance and did not deny that she had written a draft court decision. We consulted the committee. The Supreme Court considers that this is not a violation, that the Higher Qualifying Commission considers that this is not a violation, the Council of Judges of Ukraine considers that this is not a violation, that it is indeed a relief. The committee also considered this to be a methodical aid. This was in 1998. So seven years have passed since then. Pauline does not deny that there was such a situation. That's why we think the Supreme Council should decide for itself by the fate of the judge. For more than two years, Pauline does not work. There's nothing left to test. These facts, which sounded in this room, were examined. So all I can do is make a proposal to the committee, and you please be in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! The discussion is over. There were suggestions here, really, once again to consider the question, but the committee's head reported that we've had this question for two years, which is why it doesn't make sense to drag it anymore. We're going to vote now. In accordance with the Rules, I want to clarify. Not only were remarks to the judge from the Communist factions, comments to the judge were also made by representatives of other MPs. Therefore, we need to be precise, especially the candidate for judicial office. If you allow inaccuracies here, it's understandable. I'll put it to a vote. Huh? I am voting on the decision to elect a judge on an indefinite basis from the Court of Appeal of the Cherka district of Pavlenko Ludmila Aleksyivny. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:40:28]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Now. Vasil Vasilovich, this is the second decision we make. Since we have discussed this issue for the second time and have made decisions on the Supreme Council without results, we can no longer deal with the matter in accordance with the Law, nor can a judge be elected. The factions. I make notes, I make remarks to those who shout and applaud in the session room. Communists - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, 42, Our Ukraine - 31, Block Timoshenko - 7, Socialists - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, Forward, Ukraine! - 20, Social Democrats - 0, One Ukraine and Reforms and Order - 12, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, Industrial Party - 13, Non-fractional 13. [[United]] Next order, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u63	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Next order for the election of Zmijevski Volodymyr Semenović as judge of the local North London City Court of the Luhansk Region. The committee considered the nomination and did not support it. We don't think there's any reason for him to be elected judge. But on October 19th, the Committee and the Supreme Council received the address of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Timothy Malarenko. He asks for the return of the materials concerning the temporary election of the judge of the court of Zmijevski Volodymyr Semenović. I think that until the decision of the Supreme Council has been taken, we have the right to satisfy the filing of the Supreme Court. He was bidding, he was calling back the candidate. So I ask you to remove the question, and the judge's fate will continue to be decided in a different order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I think we need to listen both to the head of the committee and to the head of the Supreme Court who are asking us to appeal the judge's case for now. So let's ask that question. Ioffe, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, the point is that this judge has already been asked to push the second time. I'd like to hear the assurances that this will never happen again. That's it. Because it's been going on for two years. He committed a crime by releasing the whole gang, and now they're calling it off for the second time, and so it doesn't work out that he's coming back here the third time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u66	Yeah, well, we traded. I think it's absolutely right for us to listen to two of these solid institutions: our profile committee and the Supreme Court. The question is off. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, draft Order 8257 on the release of a judge for violating an oath. You have it on your hands. It is Judge Kuznietsov Olen Alexandrovna, who is to be dismissed from office as Judge of the Dnieprov district court of Kyiv in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. We have an application from the High Council of Justice, there's a justification, we've considered it on a committee. If necessary, I can say for what, but in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Policy, there is good reason to satisfy the submission of the head of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u68	Yes, dear colleagues, first. Is there a Kuznietsova? Kuznietsov present or not? None. Then please sign up for a question to the committee head, please sign up. You can even pull ten hands, sign up for the question! Yes, please, three minutes, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u69	Matthew, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Droguncsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u70	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u71	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that there were no grounds on the committee, and I am not aware of the decision to release Kuznietzov from office as Judge of the Dniprov district of Kiev. I don't know, Vasil Vasilovich, I respect you, I don't know what you've been up to. I'll tell you this: this paper on two pages shows such an episode that Kuznietsovka did not satisfy and consider the statement made by citizen Volosko Vasil Dmitrovic, who asked for a decision that the letters of the relevant heads of the General Education and Science Directorate of Kiev were contrary to the current legislation. Let's get on with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u72	Sergey Ivanovich, you are no longer heard. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u73	Sergei Ivanovich, I will give you, I hear yours. I think Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov faithfully raised the question of motivation, I said that. So let me give you at least a few facts that the Committee on Legal Policy came up with in support of the High Council of Justice. Judge Kuznetsov was convicted on July 10, 2003, concerning Andruhin. On July 15, 2003, a certified copy of Kuznets ’ sentence was sent to the Kyiv Detention Unit number 13 of the Ukrainian State Department for Execution of Sentences, according to which Andrukhina was found guilty of a crime, as provided for in part two of article 186 of the Criminal Code, and was sentenced to four years ’ imprisonment. On July 22, 2003, a letter was sent to Judge Kuznetsov's inmate requesting that he return the earlier sentence in order to make substantial errors in his text, and a copy of the new sentence was attached, according to which Andruchinan was sentenced to four years' imprisonment, but with the application of article 75 of the Criminal Code on the basis of which he was released from the sentence and was sentenced to two years' probation. The next, like the judge, was replaced by a copy of the judgment against Patrushev, sentenced on June 17, 2003, under part two of article 309 of the Criminal Code for the fourth year. Again a letter of return came into the isolation and again the same situation. Such cases are not unique. There are other circumstances. I just didn't want to, well, to some extent, even if I wished the judge, she's in trouble right now. And I was sorry to hurt her, but there's a lot of reasons, so I think it's the right decision to just release a person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u74	Yes, the honourable colleagues exchanged their thoughts, and I am voting on Supreme Council ruling 8257 on the release of Judge Kuztec's Helen of Alexandria from the office of Judge of the Dnipropetrov District Court of Kiev, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please vote. [[16:49:38]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Who, in order to vote, please make up your mind, Your Honor, I repeat, we will be on equal terms with you. Today the left part says you don't have to vote, in five minutes you'll say you have to vote. We have this practice, we vote, we vote, we don't. There's a proposition to the national MPs that they haven't made it. Who's to vote please make up your mind? [[16:50:28]] For 255 The decision is to re-incline the vote. Dear colleagues! I emphasize again, once again, you're still yelling before anything, think about what you're yelling about. Think about what you're yelling about. For reasons of vote, write down 3 minutes. Yes, please, Loboda, follow him to Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u75	I beg your pardon, Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u76	Please, it's Basil Sirenck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! There are great doubts about this judge, and she's sick now. If there is a strong desire for a sick person to get out of work and break the law, let us do so. But when a person is sick, he is not released from work. And the judges didn't vote. So there's a lot of doubt that there's no, well, in the Russian language of "prejudice," prejudice in relation to this judge in her release. She doesn't want to get out of the judge's seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u78	Yes, please, Gennady Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u79	Gennady Samofalov, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, I think that the People's Judge is the job and the man that people go to as the last instance to find the truth. And this judge must make the most just decision. It can be rigid, it can be anything, but people must be sure that it is right and that there will be no questions that arise today. I think it is necessary to deal very objectively with the claims that are available, carefully dealt with, and only then to make the right decision. That is why I would suggest, Vasil Vasiljevic, that we take a closer look at situations and, if there are any issues, that all the material that exists should be weighed and suggested to the Supreme Council is indeed a normal decision of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u80	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I wish to speak only with one thought, which has already been echoed by our distinguished presiding officer. Why do we choose to review or not review the issue? We have the right to vote, let us re-vote. What's the point of over-emotion and even more offensive definitions and language? There is a right to decide whether to return to the question or not. It was, it was, and I'm sure it will. What emotion, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u82	Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u83	Boris Bespalij, Yushchenka Block “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, we have witnessed a significant increase in confidence in the courts of Ukraine. If many people have previously viewed the court as a prisoner’s advocate, more and more people are now seeking justice. But the only thing that comes out of this is that if people's trust in the court increases, it's because the judges started to work more qualitatively and more, I think, and for the judicial corporation and for us, there has to be, we have to make sure that there's no stain on the judicial uniform. Vasil Vasilovich has made such convincing arguments to support that this, in this case, was found to be a judge who did not correspond to the high status of the judicial corporation. I think we should support the honor of both the judge's uniform, both the parliamentary and the judges who don't deserve to be trusted, well, she doesn't want to resign, well, nobody wants to be released, but in this case, we have to judge by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u84	Yes, please, Vasil Vasilovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u85	I apologize, but as in the Russian anecdote, “I can’t understand you, Nikiforovich: she says it’s good, he says it’s bad. ” Well, we're, believe me, on the committee, very carefully considering each candidate, we're clarifying all the circumstances, but if you want, I'll give you another example of Judge Kuznietsov: over two years in Kuznietsov's leadership, there was a criminal case under the charge of Churikov, Kekalashvili, who was in custody. Two years later, she sent for further investigation. So it's not the fate of the people? I'll tell you that we're just reacting, well, given that she's really sick, that there might even be criminal persecution. And if we clean up the judicial system, let us be consistent and principled, regardless of any conjunctural circumstances. The committee supports, once again, the application of the High Council of Justice, and thinks it's good for Kuznietsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u86	Yes, dear colleagues, communication is over. In the order of expulsion, I place it once again according to your will, for 255 national deputies have expressed this opinion, putting to the vote the order for the release of Judge Kuznetz's Helen of Alexandria from the office of Judge of the Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev in connection with the violation of the judge’s oath. 8257 number of the bill. [[16:56:31]] For 252 Decision taken. The factions? Please. You can see for yourself, without me. Please, by the factions. Communists – 0, “Regions of Ukraine” – 36, National Party – 38, “Our Ukraine” – 39, Block of Timoshenko – 27, Socialist Party – 3, Ukrainian People’s Party – 24, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, Social Democrats – 12, “One Ukraine” – 3, “Reforms and Order” – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, PPU – 12, non-fractional – 11. [[United]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, draft Decree No. 8258 on the release of judges on general grounds. It is recommended to resign: Judge of the Krasnolutsky City Court of the Luhansk district of Samar Valentina Lukyanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa Gólchenka Alexander Mikolayovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the District Court of Ravensk, Rudik Mikol Volodymyrovich, in connection with the application for resignation, according to a state of health that impedes the continuation of duties. Judge of the District Court of Kharkiv Burma, Stanislav Alexiyyovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties. Judge Kamyanec-Podilski District Court of the Hmelnicki Coast of Taransk Tetjan Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation. The committee considered the application of the High Council of Justice, it was not established that there was pressure on any of the judges--there was free will because of certain circumstances. So please support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, are there questions? Yes. Sign up. Please take three minutes, Katusheva, the next Hellhound.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u89	Please pass on the word of Phydenko S.S.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u90	Please, Stanislav Phydenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich and Vasil Vasilovich, honored. I don't know, maybe it's at your own request, but I'll tell you two examples that have gone as they please. The judge is on a bribe for a large sum, and the Equal Court is making a criminal decision, and within a week we are making his application for health. Please tell me, is it possible that something like this is hidden here, or is it not? I don't understand these approaches. The second judge is the same. You know that. I'll make it official for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u92	Yes, thank you. But keep in mind that there are no such cases. But the cases you brought about, the judge, on the other hand, made their situation worse. Because with regard to the Constitution, to attract a judge, there is still a need for agreement there, certain guarantees. And when he leaves the office of judge, it is easier for him to break a criminal case, investigate and bring it to completion. That's why I don't understand the logic of judges leaving office. In this case, such examples cannot be cited.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u93	Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u94	The faction “Regions of Ukraine”, Pecklusenko. Vasily Vasilyevich, I think you need to explain again to our colleagues the principles of the work of the Legal Policy Committee. Openness, transparency, kindness, the rule of law. We invite all our colleagues to our meeting. It is not possible to decide the fate of a person and of a court on the basis of the principle of parliamentary solidarity on the emotional wave. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, we very much ask you: you have questions, please come to the committee. We guarantee you a comprehensive, objective consideration for each troubled judge. But you cannot spontaneously ask such questions and deal with them spontaneously in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u95	Thank you, Alexander Mikhailovich. I don't need to add anything after what you said. We're really open to this kind of cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u96	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u97	Vassil Vasilovich, in view of what is very much said about corruption at the basic level of the courts, I have a simple question: what is the mechanism for combating this evil? So let's say some other structures have internal security structures, control. And in the court system, what is the control? How is this controlled by the activity of each judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u98	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. It's all settled on qualified commissions at the local level and the Higher Qualifications Commission. Well, there are questions that are being settled in the High Council of Justice regarding the judges of the Supreme Court, the higher, specialized courts. But this mechanism is legally imperfect. We're on the committee today, and we're looking at about 20 bills to improve the law on the judiciary, and I think this bill will soon be put before the Supreme Council. We're predicting the creation of the Supreme Council of Judicial Inspections, so its name, which will instantly respond to all such cases, and others, and other languages, will be about the selection of judges, and other precautionary measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u99	Thank you. That's how we exchanged our thoughts. I put to the vote an order of 8257 on the release of the judges proposed by the committee that made the committee. Please vote. [[17:03:04]] For 264 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the newly appointed judges, more loyally appointed, and we wish for those whom we have appointed today that none of them should have the same determination as the last ones we have made. Please, have a good day. Yes, dear colleagues, we have to get to the information on the commission now, but I would like to ask you, because we have the head of the Security Service here all day, and the "enemy doesn't dozelet" should let him go. Let's have a brief law in the second reading on the totality of the Ukrainian Security Service. If there's no objection, it's all accounted for. Yes, there is a note, please. Yes, I will be, yes, Bill 8175 on the overall number of the Ukrainian Security Service. Let's see whose amendments are out of the question. Unaccounted for, Sharov. Are you insisting? No, it doesn't. All the other amendments are included. There can be no questions. It can only be for reasons. Please. Manchu microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u100	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! We had a very serious discussion on this bill at the committee meeting. Many colleagues, I don't know if they're co-worker Kuzmuk, have raised questions, including me, about military counter-intelligence. We are having a serious discussion about the fact that the BSC is not yet performing its functions, which it does not have to carry out by the police, and in general that the BSC needs to be seriously reformed today in accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. And that's why we agreed that the overall structure and quantity will be confirmed for 2006. As a result, the overall structure has been approved in general and only the number has been confirmed in 2006. I talked about this with my colleagues, who were also on the committee meeting, and we stopped at that point of view and found compromise in connection. Just give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u101	Yes, dear fellows, there is order. There's order, you just supported me, that I'm as strict as ever. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we really are this problem, George raises both that time, and now, it exists. But at the same time, I don't see a particular problem if we're going to accept it now. Because there's a special Law on Security Services, where we can make any changes at any time, and we can make them. Therefore, respected colleagues, all according to the Rules. I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and in the whole Act on the overall number of Security Services of Ukraine. Registration number 8175. Please vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[17:06:54]] For 309 The law is passed. The factions, please. Let the Head of the Service see. The Communists - 53, the Ukrainian People's Party - 44, the People's Party - 43, Our Ukraine - 36, Block Timoshenko - 20, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Forward, Ukraine! - 20, SDPU (o) - 0, One Ukraine - 8, Reforms and Orders - 10, National Movement of Ukraine - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, non-fractional - 25. But, dear fellows, once again, I emphasize to those who have opposed this law that no one is depriving you of the right to make changes. Yeah, that's it. The law is passed. Thank you. Yes, the service manager can handle his affairs. ’ we now have to come up with you to consider the issue that we have voted with you — a report by the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and the Minister of Industrial Policy on the implementation of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to maintain the ownership of the state of the VAT stock package of the Krivorizki Mining Metallurgy combine “Cruvorizstal”, as well as the passage and conditions of the competition for the sale of the VAT package of Krivorizstal. The next order is proposed. Dear colleagues! I'm tired of calming you down. Please listen to the Rules so that no charges will be made. There seems to be a minister of industrial politics. Yeah, you're good? Yeah! Yes. Okay. Thank you. So let's do this, the head of the fund asks 10 minutes of information, 15 minutes of answers to questions, 5 minutes of information and 10 minutes of questions to the Minister of Industrial Policy and all. Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, 10 minutes. Prepare questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u102	Honorable National MPs, distinguished representatives of the media, respected citizens, voters! In view of the fact that there is no law on the State Property Fund to date, we are acting on the basis of the 1992 position, which is now semispouted and distorted by the President’s factually appropriate decrees of 15.12.1999, No. 1573. The structure of the organization and the interaction of the central executive bodies has been approved. According to the above scheme, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine has been classified as a central body of executive power with special status. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has examined the question of recognition by the President of Ukraine, which does not correspond to the Constitution of the second part of the second part of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, which defines the subordination, accountability and control of the Ukrainian State Property Fund to the Supreme Council and concludes that it is not a constitutional provision that the State Property Fund is subordinated to the Supreme Council. Decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 1 July 1998 concerning the privatisation of state property. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine under article 150 of the Constitution of Ukraine is mandatory for implementation in Ukraine’s territory and cannot be accused. According to article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is a higher body in the system of executive organs. In accordance with article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine directs and coordinates the work of ministries and other executive authorities. According to article 117 of the Constitution of Ukraine, acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are mandatory for implementation. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is accountable to the President of Ukraine and is accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under article 85, paragraph 13, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be monitored. Dear National Deputies! The decision to privatise the VAT package, Crivoristal, was taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 23 June 2005, number 215. Thus, the stated arrangement, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, is mandatory for the implementation of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. To implement the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund issued an order dated 25.06.2005 at the number 814, which approved a detailed privatisation plan for the Crimea. In accordance with the order of the State Property Fund and the antimonopoly committee and the decisions of the State Securities Commission, the arrangements for the sale of the company's stock package in the area of openness, price offer and auction were changed. And this corresponding document, registered by the Ministry of Justice on July 22, 2005, is the number seven hundred ninety - nine, a fraction, a thousand and a hundred and seventy. The Order of the State Property Fund approved the composition of a competitive commission composed of representatives of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Antimonopoly Committee of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration, representatives of the work team of the WAT “Criborizstal”, the Central Committee of the Steel and Mining Workers' Association, the employees of the Ministry of Labour and BSB. At a competitive committee meeting on July 6, 2005, a decision was made on the appropriateness of environmental auditing. By the way, the Environmental Audit Act was adopted on June 20, 2004, and appropriate regulations were adopted to implement this law. Environmental audit issues were discussed at a meeting of the commission, a competition was adopted and announced for the selection of those conducting this environmental audit, and through the Ministry of Environment, which are all issues. and after an environmental audit was carried out, and appropriate work, and approved by the Ministry of Ecology. I think I'm going to tell more here directly from the Ministry of Prompolitics who came to the meeting. After the tender for the State Property Fund was announced, the purchasers of a package of shares with which were contracts for confidentiality and related packages for the competition were awarded to them: “Evrosholding”, ZAT Company Private Intertrade, Mytel-Style Company NV, VAT Severstal, Arcelor, TOV Smart Group, Stalma Company SP ZOOO, Company. , VAT Lower-Dinning Pipeworks, Industrial Group Consortium, Mittel-Style Company, Holding, is twelve companies. [[Germany]] All received the appropriate documents. To this morning, only three potential buyers submitted documents for the contest. And according to the State Property Fund's order of 20.10.2005, number 2810 for participants admitted to a contract for the sale of VAT packages, the Crimsonisttal is defined and approved by the bidders of the potential buyers' competition: This Smart Group is the founder of one English company, one Swiss and three Russian consortium, the Industrial Group consortium, the ISD and the Arcelor Society, the Mytel-Style company, the founders of the family, the citizens of India, Mitel. [[40 percent]] [[Luxembourg]] [[Germany]] According to the October 24th competition, all organizational arrangements are in place. Today I want to say that all the work that's been done, I can say that the competition will be held at the State Property Fund at 11 o'clock on Monday 24 on live television, on radio, and I think that with the participation of the press. All those who want to see this contest properly will be attended by media representatives. As for the question of industrial investors, I want to say that all relevant documents are presented in accordance with current legislation. As far as offshore areas are concerned, everyone has carried out appropriate checks, and I can say that even we have received confirmation from banks that the requirements of the industrial investor are met by Mitel Steel and the Smart Group and Industrial Group, respectively. All documents are drawn up in accordance with current legislation. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u103	Please sign up for 15 minutes. Please, Polit. Follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u104	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u105	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear reporter, perhaps today is the day of the magnetic storms. I mean, a few days ago, we make decisions, we make changes to the law. Today, by decree, we try to change the law. So, is it the law or the regulation? I think that by decree we can't change the law, much less the law that we passed recently, which is on the President's signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u106	Dear Peter Stepanovich, I think we're in this room with you and we've accepted the Constitution, and by asking questions, you answered it. And that's why I can only confirm what you said. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u107	Please, Nicholas Komar. There's Tereshuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u108	Please give the floor to the Deputy Sukh. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u109	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u110	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Ukraine’s Regions”, Zaporozhye. Dear Valentina Petrovna, would you please tell us that the U.S. company Edox has filed a lawsuit before the U.S. District Court of the State of New York to prevent the sale by the government of the Ukrainian Metallurgical Combine of Crevystall? And the second. Do you know that Edox, who was one of the combined investors, intends to demand compensation from Ukraine in the event of such a trade? So, please tell me, will it not be the same situation again when our Ruslans, our ships will be arrested abroad, and the State Property Fund will be there in no way, even though you are sanctifying and announcing the need to conduct such trades, that is, the international negative resonance of future trades.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! With regard to the court’s claim to the jurisdiction of another State. We are privatizing in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. And all matters relating to debt obligations between legal persons are determined exclusively in the courts. And the question. I'm afraid I can't talk because when I came here, I was told on the phone that I had come to the Fund with this kind of paper. I can see, then give an answer. Now I can't answer because I haven't seen this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u112	Please, Sergey Tereshuk. Vassil Overseer, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u113	Valentina Petrovna, too much propaganda around the "Criminals". If possible, comment on the website “Occupy” dated 19.10.05. Literally: “The fact remains that while the Krivorojstal is owned by the State, it is the responsibility of the combination, and therefore, and control the profits of the enterprise, it will be the head of the household fund, especially before the parliamentary elections. Thus, it was possible that all quotas for the contract for the products of Crimsonfoot were distributed by Valentin Semenyuk and Sergey Grishchenko. And the largest metal trader in the Crusades was the offshore structures controlled by the sociologist Nikola Rudzkovski. The result of this linkage was that, under the firm leadership of the Socóprostal Party, it had reduced its yield by 30 per cent in recent months. Even San Sanic Moroz, who has recently become a great acquaintance and reader of the metal industry, knows where the margin of action goes.” End of quote. Thanks for the comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u114	Thank you for the information and the agitation for me as the head of the Fund and for the party I represent. First of all, once again, the issue of governance of public property has not been settled until now. You know that the previous Supreme Council has passed the Management Act with us. It's not accepted. We are now acting in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the administration of public property. Procedure for the appointment of a manager at the suggestion of a district administration. Minprompolitics have been appointed the head of this company. The issue of trade in metals, the product concerned, does not apply to the jurisdiction of the State Property Fund. In accordance with the Decree on the Management of State Property Objects, the State Property Fund has concluded a contract with a manager indicating the level of income, the level of wages. And according to Kabmin's decree, it's forbidden to interfere with the business, including the state. So what I'm saying is, all contract issues don't apply to the powers of the State Property Fund. When the object was returned to government property, at the suggestion of the Cabinet of Ministers, a working group was set up under the leadership of Mr. Grishchenk, a deputy of the Minprompolitics, who took over all powers under quotas and licences. And all those sales took place according to those meetings of the group that was. When Mr. Grishenko approached the holdmain Foundation. To bless this Maintenance Fund, I replied: it is not possible to do so in accordance with the Cabinet decree. If you want, I can give you all the original documents, with the corresponding correspondence. Besides, I mean, you know, we want private capital we can't manage, come to the Illich factory and tell him: “Where are you going to sell metal?” he said, “No one can, because he will say, “I own and I sell wherever I want.” However, the object of government property is something that everyone wants to move. Once again, according to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the administration of public property, no one has the right to intervene in distribution and trade. T e all refers solely to the powers that have been given. That's why I'm saying it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u115	You don't have to. This is the third time. Please, Sleepy Boris. Valentina, you're saving the time of your colleagues. Insomnia Boris, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u116	Bespalij, Block Yushchenko, “Our Ukraine”. But I would like to refer to the explanatory note to Bill 8287, introduced by the two members of the Social Party. The note states that the privatisation of the “Criminals” can provide more than three billion dollars and returns, even if the costs to be recovered to the oligarchs that need to be returned remain more than 10 billion, that is, not at all priceless. As a result, I have two questions for you, Valentina Petrovna. Do you not think that attempts to undermine the privatisation of the “Criminals” under such conditions are intended, first of all, to undermine the confidence of investors in Ukraine that we do not have a stable economic situation here? It's different. Since the budget provides 7 billion incomes from privatization, it simply cancels pensions, scholarships, social benefits so that people do not receive pensions, salaries, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u117	Thank you. I stood there and stood on the point that factories like this should be in the hands of the state. And a year ago, I was talking about the same thing as today. There's a political decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to sell an object, and I'm acting in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers ruling that I just reported to you. And all the jobs are done. When it comes to trying to break the competition, I want to say again, once we've already received a suitable mortgage of 3 billion, it's impossible to do that, because after that, fines will go to the State Property Fund, and we'll have to take responsibility for it accordingly. So I want to say again, I'm standing by your proposals, and I'm here to report it. If you look at the terms of the competition prepared by the State Property Fund today, you see, 25 years of debt control, and if an investor comes, takes a commitment and fails to comply with the terms of the competition, then a deputy in the past, Semenyuk socialist, will sell five more times to put out pensions, wages and make the enterprise work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u118	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u119	Please give the word to Mikola Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u120	Mikoli Sadov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u121	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd region. Valentina Petrovna, you have done everything you can to return “Crowrystall” to the VAT in the form of state ownership, all decisions of the courts have been made. As far as I know now, I've been on this VAT, VAT now works fine, people have jobs, the city budget is being replenished, the VAT community in state ownership. Please tell me, why are you standing at a different point of view right now? Has your personal position changed, or has the position of the Fund changed? Maybe the government can't just run and try to patch holes at the expense of privatizing or "Cruvoristal" or any other object to survive in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u122	Thank you, Nicholas Ilchi. And I want to say, really, a profitable enterprise, it works profitablely, for today's profit in nine months is 2 billion 27 million, really laborers in order to keep this enterprise alive, but we still have to understand today the legal coalition that we have. You have to pay back 800 million to the previous owner, and if you don't get it back, you have to look for the right amount of money in accordance with the legislation. At the same time, we need to understand. We socialists are in the government of four men. There is a government decree to be followed. But the main thing, I repeat, is that control over investment remains with the State Property Fund. I would like you to read carefully for 25 years the monitoring of investment, the issue of ecology, modernization, reconstruction, new technology, the market. All of this will enable the company to monitor the proper work of its investors in carrying out its investment obligations. That's all that's written in the terms of the competition. And for us socialists, it's different. Wages, jobs that don't have the right to cancel out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u123	Yes, Alexander the Ivan the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u124	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Valentina Petrovna, the Ukrainian People's Party, has always opposed the thieving privatization of industrial objects, but it was against our will that Krivoriztali was privatized in a criminal way. The new authorities have restored justice. The van's been taken. A new phase of privatization has begun, and all of them. And in the finish line, the Supreme Council decides to stop today. What specific damage will Ukraine's economy suffer if this decision is taken, would you please tell us in detail? And the second question is, is there profit in demand? And now, you've seen the slogan here: "Let's not let the "Criminals" be privatized." The following It reads "No – Privatization of the “Criminal” for no price." That is, once they're in favour of privatization, once against privatization. Tell me, what is the separation of thought behind this? Is that what you want or how or why you want it to be? Why did the password disappear here against the privatization of the ICC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u125	Ivana Alexandrovich, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and I, as an MP in the last vocation, spoke every time about the need to sell business losses and to leave profits in the hands of the state. In doing so, normative documents should be regulated accordingly. In particular, we talked to you about the adoption of the Law on Governance, which, by the way, was vetoed. As far as damage is concerned, it can only be done by the Ministry of Economics. I can't stand here right now, and I can't do the math right now, because 3 billion can only stand -- one price if it's an internal court, and if it's a foreign court, it could be terrible amounts that I can't talk about right now. As for the position of the Socialist Party, once again, I want to say, it remains the same. Once again, I am talking about the fact that revenue objects should be in the hands of the state, but today there is a political decision, and I will carry out that decision of the Cabinet of Ministers that has been adopted. But once again, Ivane Alexandrovich, I will control the investment and report to the hall on how the business works. Profitability is at the level of previous years. Please, everything in the terms of the competition is marked: wage levels, all social guarantees with control of 25 years. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's stuck!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u126	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u127	Thank you. Please pass the word to Zubanov, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u128	Zubanov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u129	Valentina Petrovna, as you know, is able to participate in a competition for the sale of the “Crivoristal” shares in accordance with paragraph 10 of the State Privatisation Program, only industrial investors, i.e. persons who have not less than three years of direct production, or who own at least one year of the same business. This was also said by the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine in its decision on the previous tender for the sale of VAT shares, Civoristal. Questions. Why the requirements for buyers at the competition do not meet the requirements of paragraph 10 of the State Privatization Program. That is why financial intermediaries and persons involved in metallurgical mediation are allowed to participate in the competition under paragraph 12 of the competition. Explain by whom these conditions were written in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u130	Thank you. The terms of the competition were written by a working group that was created according to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Order of the State Property Fund. All I have to say is about testing industrial investors. Industrial group. manages the Dejinsky plant for more than a year and is a suitable founder. Smart Group has managed Ingulatsky HOK for more than a year. Mytel Steel directs a large metal combination in Germany. There are no suitable coastal areas. I invite everyone to the State Property Fund, and I can show you the relevant documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u131	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, sit down. Shandra Volodymir Mikolaiovich is Minister of Industrial Policy, please for 5 minutes. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. We have a lot of debt today, and we need to work at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, the press. In order to implement the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine order of 23 June 2005 under No. 2015-R, the Minprompolitics have been prepared and sent to the State Property Fund for the terms and conditions of the tender for the sale of the public stock package. The Cabinet of Ministers approved a schedule of preparation and reselling of the VAT package "Crovóryzstal" since 4.05. I want to say that the privatization of CRORORISTALS, as well as the second privatization of all agricultural objects, is being carried out by the Property and Minprompolitics Fund for Privatization, is being conducted in such a high-quality manner as conservation activities and so on. In fact, as Valentina Petrovna said, we do not settle matters of government ownership. Unfortunately, he now manages all the packages that are found, which companies that are corporate, run the holding fund. If you turn to the Croatstally, the head of the observation board is Mr. Peter, the deputy of the holding fund. The contract is signed by the holding fund and so on. The Ministry of Industrial Policy operates only the functional security of CRORISTALI's work, such as any metallurgical sector or other sector, where virtually everything has been privatised. I guess I better answer the questions, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u133	Thank you, thank you. Sign up for questions. Yes, please, ten minutes as agreed. Lechenko Volodymir. Kirilo Polishchuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u134	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear reporter, please tell the Croatstal, who was formerly in state property, and has made enormous profits or taxes to the State Budget. Then he was privatized. These profits were already in the pocket of the oligarchs. Now back in state, so to speak, property. So should we privatize it again? Unless there are any examples abroad that effectively profit-making enterprises give tax revenues to the State for privatization. Why does the government do this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u135	Thank you for asking. That's a very good question. You know, there are two ways around the world to make a profit. The first is from receiving dividends. And the second is from capitalization. In this case, it's pretty high capitalization and let's say so. Shareholders choose when an enterprise is on the rise to sell it. I can honestly say that when I was a national MP, I voted against it at the moment. Now I think that, as this enterprise has already been put on privatisation, it's already been sold once, I'm not dealing with legal issues right now, but the question is, as they say, the train is gone. It has already been sold and needs to be resold. They do. They're doing it abroad. I'm telling you again. They're looking for the moment when it's worth the most. They can also sell. I'm going to say that we have a lot of metallurgical enterprises privatized that work very well. I can tell you that the Ministry of Industrial Policy paid about 8 billion taxes in nine months -- that's without a fund, that's a payroll fund. And here, of course, is the colossal role of the metallurgical factories that are now privatized in paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u136	Kirilo Polychuk. Please. Gurov's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Kirilo Polisticchuk, faction of regions, Christian Democratic Party of Ukraine. Whether or not the transfer of the collective to the property of the company was being considered. And I'd like to give it to my colleague, Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u138	Hell-bent Alexander, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u139	The "Regions" faction, Pecklusenko. I want to thank you, Vladimir Nikolaevich, for your attitude towards the MPs. I've addressed you twice and you've reacted with lightning twice, as you don't say, Adam Ivanovich, to a former colleague of ours like Ivcenko Naftogaz Ukraine. The whole country could freeze, it could not be contacted by people's deputies, not from areas, not from areas. I demand to call Mr. Yvchenko here immediately, and let him report how the country is ready for the heating season. It's a matter of substance to you. Is there no danger of hasty privatization of Krivoroztali, in that it is an enterprise to purchase a foreign investor to absorb a national metal producer?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u140	Thank you for asking. In fact, there was a big discussion about how to do or leave state property or sell, but you know that the Supreme Council has adopted the Privatisation Act and that's why the government has decided to continue. And now the Supreme Council has not adopted a bill to reverse the privatisation of the Ccrivoristals. There's been a lot of different thoughts or collectives or not, there's a government decision, and we within the Ministry of Industrial Policy, within our competence, we follow the government's decision. Of course, there is such a threat. And really, I'll tell you that the market for per capita metal consumption in Ukraine is about 167 kilograms of metal. In the Czech Republic, Belgium, this is about 600 kilograms per person per consumption. China is 1,000, Saudi Arabia is 1200. Of course, we have tremendous growth here, and I'll tell you, if we were to increase the internal market for metal consumption, which we can absolutely do, then all the metallurgical industry could only work in the Ukraine market. And to secure Ukraine's market and to export us, we need to build new factories. I think we're done here. And these fluctuations in prices in the external markets of metal, I think if the metallurgical industry were working at least 80 percent on the internal market, we wouldn't be scared. In a functional way, we are certainly going to work to create a metallurgical exchange in Ukraine and to protect Ukrainian domestic metal consumer somehow and, in fact, to make the most of the metal go to Ukraine the one that is produced in Ukraine at market prices, of course, without cutting prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u141	Vadim Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u142	Please give the floor to a colleague for the Zarubinski People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u143	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u144	Thank you. Thank you, Vadim Mikolaiovich. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sir, Minister, we've heard something like a report, rather a report from a political party, about the party much more than about the state structure. In view of this, as you estimate, is there anything that can be reported here when the dynamics of coming to the general State Budget Fund from privatization are set at about 7 billion dollars -- 707 billion dollars. That is, 10 percent of the implementation is planned for the state budget. What report is this, anyway? And there's more. Give a specific answer to the questions that metal companies are doing with metallurgy? Who brought them to the Chrysalis? She's hot. from the fact that they're getting the price and what they're selling? Is it all their credit that someone has given them the right quota? Who controls these firms? You must know this as did Mrs. Holdmanino. Why? Because it is a state object today. Please specify the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u145	I can give you a schedule for all the companies. I'm afraid I didn't take it with me, and it's quite a lot, and basically, every month, this kind of statistics are going on. According to the law, however, neither Minprompolitics has the right to interfere with the economic activity of the owner. ‘ I’ll answer right away. The approved financial plan, the approved investment plan, approved by Minprompolitics and Minfin. I'll tell you that there is no quota as the head of the observation board. This is decided by the head of the government. The quota, not one central executive body does not set quotas – I am officially telling you, they haven't been shared, you won't find anywhere, or a letter from the Minprompolitics where it was signed, not just by the minister, but I think it's both the deputy, both the department and the department. If you find it, please let me handle this man. According to companies, you're a national MP, make a request, there's a lot of firms and you have quotas, I'll give you an answer. A contract signed with the Holding Fund, the company is in the domain of the government of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u146	Igor Yukhnovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u147	Yukhnowsky, Our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please say the following. I've been watching this company for a long time, and it was once, as a state-owned enterprise was run by a director who was running abroad, and then fled abroad, and then the company fell down, and then Mr. Dubin was appointed, who was pretty good at running it, and then was privatized and privatized by Mr. Ahmetov, Mr. Pinchuk, and partly by Mr. Dubina and others. Now they think they didn't pay enough, and I think they didn't pay enough. Now it's being run by the State Property Fund, and I think in that position, the enterprise is going to fall again, what do you think about how it's going to happen, whether we have to do this privatization, whether we have to do this competition, or whether we're going to do it again in front of the world. And what we're going to look like.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u148	Thank you for asking. First of all, the state must look like a state. We had Monday, Tuesday, the Ukrainian-Romanian Advisory Board, so on that side was the Minister of Economics, he said that investments in Romania's economy over six months were over $3 billion. Of course, if we cancel the privatization that's going to take place according to the schedule that's going to be shown on Monday, which is going to be on television, which is going to be transparent, it's going to make a big impression on the investment appeal of Ukraine. So this was a question, before it was evaluated in money, I don't think it's any economist who can count it, because there are different methods, but it's going to be a very serious blow to the investment attractiveness of the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u149	Yes, have a seat, please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. We have a special privatization committee. Please, Ludmila Kirichenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I have already reported to you this morning on the situation that has arisen, the requests, the appeals, the return of MPs who have come to the commission. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to those processes that are in the process of privatizing the “Criminalists”. The most important, that is, what are the main violations that are taking place today? The most important violation, for which I note, is that these violations, which I will talk about, have already been decided by the relevant courts. I mean, we're trying to get back together with you guys on the same robberies, that's what we're talking about. That is, the previous competition was found not to be valid by the courts for the sale of Criminals because, above all, the rights of the participants in the privatization of Ukrainians were not denied. That is to say, shares of 5 per cent of the statutory fund were to be sold to Ukrainian citizens. It wasn't done at the time, it wasn't done today, it's a very big failure. The next time the competition was held was once again one of the reasons for the court's decision. 75 days, no 75 days. I would also like to say that the most important thing is, of course, that today, what the economic investors are participating in today, you know, is contrary to the law. Economic investors, if you very clearly decipher what this is, it involves both trade and financial services, i.e. intermediaries. Thus, once again, there is a total violation of the Privatization Act. What can this lead to? This may lead again to what we've been talking about here for two days, which may lead to a competition, but in court it will be declared invalid, illegal. Please tell me, would this give the State an additional image if that were to happen? I don't think there's gonna be any image. And so on. If we are all here talking about the fact that the sale of the Crimsons is in charge of budget replenishment, I ask you, when we voted with you on the budget, there was no “Crimsons” there and in passing. And we talked about what's budgeted and paid and pension. That's all that matters. And today, it's all we talk about. And you will pay attention to what Semenyuk said. The company only paid 2.5 billion per year in six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u151	Thank you, sit down. No, there won't be any questions. Dear colleagues! We have three draft regulations here. Let me give the authors one minute, let them remind you of what they're talking about. Please, Zubanov. Get ready for Odysnik. One minute from here. Zukbanov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u152	The question is that this decree provides to oblige the Government to suspend the privatization of the Horn of Curve and return it to the State, to leave it in the State, “Criminal”. Plus, it must be added that Semenyuk said that she was not dealing with these issues, only the Cabinet of Ministers, so that tomorrow the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yehanurov, would make a presentation on how he would proceed with the decision of the Supreme Council - the suspension of the privatisation of the Horn of Curve. That's the first one. Second. There's a myth. The Minister of Industry said such a myth: If we stop privatization, it would damage the image of the investment. This is a myth, because no more damage can be done to the investment image than the Government has done in nine months. We have failed to deal with these owners, we have already entered into new trials for future privatization, and we have failed to comply with the Supreme Council ruling voted by 256 deputies. Is that not a violation of Ukraine's image? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u153	Thank you. Mikola Odynik, microphone, please. He's behind him, Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking very well today about the privatisation of the Chrysalis, but I would like to remind you that we talked about privatization on June 3, 2004. And I would like to tell these people today that everything is dishonest and should be transferred to private property, not private property, but to the people. And to remain state-owned, they voted in 2004 on June 3rd to grant the right to remove the Crevystall from enterprises that impose a moratorium on privatization. Aren't they the same people? What happened? And what happened is that we want to fool people again, and we want to again, leaving them in private property, so that it can be a dishonest and wrong way to recapture them and abandon them by stealing them again! That's why I think we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u155	Yes, Sergey Zizko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u156	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Recently, the President of Ukraine held a meeting with the most influential entrepreneurs and actually made a political, economic agreement with them for further economic development, a joint economic development of Ukraine. But I can see that some people don't understand the President's words and go back to the old rules of the game. As a result, you and I have witnessed an unprecedented planned action after the collapse of the competition for the privatisation of the Crusades, a fair, public competition involving prominent foreign companies. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was taken during the post-paying competition, unprecedented in the legislative practice of democratic countries. That is why I am ordering the annulment of this decision and, in the near future, the faction “Our Ukraine” will be preparing parliamentary requests for criminal cases for a falsified privatisation contest in 2004. Let the Attorney General's Office and the S.A.P.A. help find him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u157	Thank you. Let's do it. From Gabrieluk’s motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u158	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask everyone for a moment's attention, especially with regard to the factions who support today's power. Let's be consistent, friends. You remember how we all fought to ensure that the Crimson is not privatized and sold. Why are we changing our attitude, our viewpoint, so quickly today? Second. I would like to ask, and you and I understand very well, if a truly serious owner, how and by whom will he give of himself a good business? So that's when whoever's doing this is registered in their incompetence. And third, probably the most important. If you and I understand and know that our people are the only ones who have the full right to property of the state, our grandfathers, our fathers, our mothers made their own money afterwards, our blood on the property, and today you want to sell. Who will take such courage? You can't sell. Leave it in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, I see many who wish. Please sign up quickly. Sign up. Yes, please explain. Give me five minutes and we'll vote. It's a dragoon. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u160	Adam Ivanovich, I am happy to pass on the word to Cibenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u161	Zibank Peter's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u162	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, Zybenko. If we want to respect ourselves and respect our decisions, the only decision we can make today is to oblige the State Property Fund to make the decisions we made with you two days ago. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, today we have seen another illustration before it is dangerous to try to be both in opposition and in power. You have to write two slogans of different meanings, you have to criticize a government that has several representatives, and so on and so forth. So I call you to an absolute sequence in my actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u163	I'm reminding you, dear colleagues, I've already extended the meeting for 15 minutes, don't worry. Dry Jaroslav. It's Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u164	Jaroslav Suhi, “Ukraine’s Regions”, Zaporozhye. In order to find out all the complex nuances, I would like to convey the word to the national MP, Pecklesenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u165	This is the most reprehensible Zaporozhye represents. Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u166	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions", Zaporozhye. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? They say in order to be attractive, the plant needs to be quickly handed over, quickly picked up, and then handed over quickly. What kind of investments can we talk about if we're in such a hurry? They're just afraid of certain judicial powers. The Court shall decide sooner or later on a just decision. Second moment. The Minister made it clear that there was a risk of such a plant being absorbed by foreign companies. And the main question is: we decide the fate of the enterprise twice without taking into account the opinion of the labour community. We need the commission to get to the scene, meet the labour force. This issue must be addressed in all its components. Plus, there is a decision of the Supreme Council. How can we do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u167	Basil Nadrag. Follow him, Piggy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, we support the Zubanov draft order. Why, because we never got an answer, none of the speakers did: so he did write the truth or the lie "Occom". I want to understand, however, the quote: “The fact remains that while the Crimson is owned by the State, to manage the combination, and thus to control the profits of the enterprise, it will be the one who heads the household fund, especially before the parliamentary elections. It is therefore clear that the quota for the contracting of the products “Crioprostali” has been distributed by Valentin Semenyuk and Sergey Grishchenko. And the largest metal carrier of Krivorozsky steel has become the offshore structures that are controlled by Nardep socialist Nikolai Rudkovski. The result of this linkage was that, under the firm's clear leadership, CROOSTAL has reduced its yield by 30 per cent in recent months. Where does the walrus go from such activities? End of quote. Unfortunately, there is no answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u169	Sergey Zizko, please. Oleg Belarus is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u170	Thank you. Sergey Zizko. To put the final point in this matter, I ask you to pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u171	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u172	Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands very well what's going on in this room. Those who have stolen this enterprise for 4 billion dollars from the state take at least a few months to try, through the American courts, to stop the previous legal decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine that this enterprise should be returned to the people. What Mr. Nadaga said is an unnecessary argument for the company to be sold. So that no one has the right to divide the quotas, they have to throw away the distribution of metal products, everything else. That's why those who stand in an honest position today understand: an honest and transparent privatisation contest is the only way to save this enterprise today from robbing those who have already laid a paw on it. That's why our faction supports the draft regulations that have been made
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u173	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u174	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u175	Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u176	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to support the previous speaker and say that the situation in question is to freeze the circumstances that. At the very least, they raise suspicion about what's going on on on the "Criminals" simply causes us to demand an honest, completely honest, open form of privatization. Or, otherwise, we should clearly and unequivocally say that we are covering all of those whom we have previously demanded that they be reimbursed to the State. How privatization took place earlier. What was worth 4 billion was bought for 800,000 dollars. Now it is suggested that those who bought 800,000 dollars should keep it and freeze the situation, at least until the election. That's why we're offering to pay the difference, and we can only pay the difference on one occasion because of honest privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u177	This was the name of Rudzkowski, the replicator, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u178	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I take all the attacks by the faction of the People's Party as revenge for my position on the principle of the Supreme Council of Volodymyr of Lithuania, by which I said that this man is not worthy to occupy the Presidency because he is guilty of George Gongadze's disappearance. And these attacks on the Crevices, about the cars I'm running in Ukraine or something else, I think you're going to come up with a dozen more things, but you're going to make an accusation. And all of this is just to run the dirt. I don't think it's worth it, including the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m1.u179	Dear colleagues, I'll explain the Rules to you now. Replica is given only when the name of the national deputy is mentioned. That's the first one. The other one. I have asked you again and again, and once again, let us mention only those present in the hall. Since there is no Head of the Supreme Council, there is nothing to mention. But I have to answer for him, because unfortunately he's gone. Let's be gentler, more responsible, and more modest. He wants to call someone, call them when he's there so he can give you an answer. Now we'll determine, dear fellows. I ask again, one more moment, the chairman should make some clarifications. I was treated fairly by other factions. I would like to make such a point that on June 3, 2004, when we voted on the draft ban on privatization, 59 Communists, 98 representatives of our Ukraine, 20 socialists, 19 BUTians voted. I hope we're all going to be consistent and not let this giant privatize that we're not going to cut a chicken with golden eggs. Yes, I'm voting, I'm voting on draft decree number 8519, the author of the Zubanov bill. Vote please, 8519. Excuse me, 83. Vote. [[18:07:17]] For 231 The factions, please. The Communists are 55, the Ukrainian People's Party is 48, the People's Party is 43, Our Ukraine and Block Timoshenko are 0, the Socialists are 25, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, the Go, Ukraine! 19, the Social Democratic Party is 20, the One Ukraine, the Reforms and Orders, the National Movement of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 2, the non-fractional 19. [[united]] Dear colleagues, you may shout cheers, but you and I accepted what we accepted two days ago. We said once again, let's follow the verdict. Well, let's do it. Question completed. Dear colleagues, I would very much ask if it were your will, we have two questions about inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Listen. We've got time, seven more minutes. Draft decree for the creation of the Ministry of Tractive Agricultural Engineering of Ukraine, registration number 5542. At the same time, I would like to remind you that I have a document signed by Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, who was in his time Head of the Committee on Industrial Policy. The Industrial Policy Committee supports this initiative. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote. This is our recommendation, Ivan Alexanderovich. Recommendation. [[18:09:06]] For-163 The factions, please. Please, by the factions. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 31, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 1, Social Party – 22, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Go, Ukraine!” – 0, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 4, “Reforms and Order” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, non-fractional – 4. It's not on, I'm afraid. And the draft decree on the establishment of a moratorium on vacation gas prices for the population and for housing and utilities. Registration number 8250, author of the National MP Noshchenko Mikola Petrovich. Please vote. We will support our people, future voters. [[18:10:06]] For 244 Order's on. The factions. Communists – 56, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 42, National Party – 43, “Ukraine” – 5, Block Timoshenko – 18, Socialists – 23, Ukrainian People’s Party – 2, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 20, Social Democrats – 19, “One Ukraine”, “Reforms and Order” – Zero, National Movement – 2, Industrial and Business Party – 0, non-fractional – 14. Dear colleagues. The decision is very short. The Supreme Council decides to prohibit the increase in the prices of natural gas leave for the population and utilities during 2006. [[18:11:07]] For 251 It's been decided. What else must we accept? Is that it? Then by factions, please show me. Communists – 54, “Regions of Ukraine” – 48, National Party – 44, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 26, Socialists – 23, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 20, Social Democrats – 0, “One Ukraine” – 2, “Reforms and Orders” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 8, non-fractional – 14. Dear colleagues, this is what we, all we could do today, have done. There's a lot of debt left, but time's up. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00. We work in a day’s work on Friday. Only the first question will be what we voted today, information from the intelligence about the events that took place on October 15th. Good-bye.
