ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u1	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can begin the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Enable the “Race ” system [[16:10:15]] Registered -402 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! A meeting of the Conciliation Council has just ended. We discussed Bill 3207-1 on amending the Constitution of Ukraine in part of local self-government. After lengthy discussions, we have reached such a compromise that we are now working on taking into account the observations and considerations expressed at the Conciliation Council, the working group is working on the project, we will agree on all positions, and tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will consider the issue of prior approval and referral to the Constitutional Court of Project 3207-1. With this in mind, I would ask that all deputies be present at their places of work. Then we'll think about it, dear fellows. One more moment. Dear colleagues! We talked about giving you information at the evening session about the participation of Ukrainian national deputies in the vote on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on December 22, 2005. Is there a Valérie Mishur? None. Then let me make it public. The commission calculated this. The number of national MPs who took part in the vote, as you know, is 87. By faction, I call the faction “Ukraine — 0, the Communist faction — 27, the “Our Ukraine” faction — 2, the faction of the People’s Party — 27, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko — 1, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine — 1 People’s Block — 19, the faction of the Social Democratic Party — 0, the Ukrainian People’s Party — 0, the National Movement of Ukraine — 0, the “Rebirth” group — 0, the “Reforms and Order” — 1, the “One Ukraine” — 2, the industrialists and entrepreneurs — 0, the non-fractional — 7. [[united]] I think you can come to a conclusion on your own, and listeners and voters will come to a conclusion who won't form a Constitutional Court. Yes, it's under review -- draft regulation on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of citizens' violation of the right to freedom of conscience. [[Agreed]] Please, Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u2	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, report to the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts of the violation of the citizens’ right to freedom of conscience, I reported as head of this commission, reported on Friday last Sunday. That's why the draft regulation number 8578 was adopted as a basis, and the changes and additions that have been made to this project today are taken into account, changes and additions, except for one. Samylica Katerina Seminovna, who offered to contact the Council of Europe about violations of the rights of believers in Ukraine and persecution for religious signs. Well, the board practically asked that question. The members of the commission did not support the project. So if Catherine Semenovn insists, we need to ask this question, this amendment to the vote in the Supreme Council, in the session room. Correction of MP Bandurki Alexandra Markovica counted. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a request because we have set up a commission. The Commission has worked, established a number of violations, with criminal violations by the head of the Provincial State Administration, Vasil Redney, the head of the Ternopil district government administration, Mr. Stoyk, and the Shum District State Administration, Ternopil district, Mr. Petruk. So, dear friends, to really give the Orthodox a peaceful welcome to the New Year of the Orthodox Believers, Christmas Christ, you all want peace, peace in Ukraine, so I urge you as the chairman of the commission to vote in favour of this draft decree, and we will really give a gift to the Orthodox believers to meet peacefully, peacefully, all the religions of Christ, pray for Ukraine and for the Ukrainian people. Thank you. I call for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, it may be only for the reasons of the vote, but not for the question, for it is already a decision-making process. Please. That's what I'm saying. That's not a question. That's a question. Katerina Samuels, please, microphone. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want you to listen. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! I actually proposed, I made a proposal that we should go to the Council of Europe for violations of the rights of believers in our country and persecution for religious signs. In addition to what was called the head of the temporary commission, we know that the same facts are in relation to the members of the Kirilian Church. The same is true in the Chernobyl area, the Carpathia, which has never had any conflict, today the head of the district government by force methods makes the voting turn. The sum in Lipovy Valley and so on. I mean, it's not just cases, it's a system of past power, it's a system of current power. And I think it's exactly what we legislators need.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u5	Alexiyuk, please. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion, this is a decision-making process. There was a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u6	Dear colleagues. Sergei Alexiyuk, Ukrainian People’s Party Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's decision of the Regional Court of the Plain Region of 22 December has been taken: violated by the Provincial Regional Administration of Concern has been satisfied, and the implementation of case number 14/358 for the administrative order of the Moscow Patriarchate of the Council of Presbyterians on the registration of changes and additions signed by the head of the district administration, Vasil Redney, has been suspended. So the subject that is being discussed today can be thought to have ceased to exist. And so the motion for a decision that some MPs today want to accept, that they have somewhere to go before the election, that they want to vote it, I think it's inappropriate to accept it, and it's going to have a completely different character. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u7	Thank you. If there was a written offer and it wasn't taken into account, please, Mikhail Kosov. What written offer is not included? And I ask Paul Sulkowski to listen carefully, for there perhaps the offer was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u8	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Reform and Order Party. I've written up my proposals in writing, which are called a separate thought. So none of these proposals are included. And Deputy Sulkovsky gave exactly the same form of his draft decision, or his own ruling, which was at the previous meeting of the Supreme Council. So I suggested we remove paragraphs six, seven, three, four from this regulation. Third, fourth, sixth, seventh. So what to call the actions of the heads of the district organizations, if the court decisions are either cancelled or not completed, is no right of the Supreme Council. And that's why voting for this version of the Law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u9	Thank you. One minute, not all. Yuri Karmazin, please
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, surely upon learning of this decision, I see that it carries a somewhat confrontational period, such a confrontational character. I don't think it'll calm the public of Ukraine before Christmas. I believe that, with the message that Mr. Alexiyuk has just reported, there is a decision on the same matter of the court. We have to do this, we have to postpone the decision now, we have to get a ruling from the court, we have to learn if it concerns the legality of the actions of the head of the Plain State, or whether it is the legality of the actions of the head of the Ternopil district administration, Stojko, and it affects these actions. And that's what I understand from my colleague Alexiyuk's speech, so we have to change point 3 and point 4 in this statement. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it is clear that this completely changes the situation of the court's decision, which is what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u11	No, no, dear colleagues, please, the author of the draft decree, more loyally, the head of the commission, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u12	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the previous two speakers, I want to tell you that this only supports Vasil Redonia, not the Ukrainian people. Because it was only half a year before this year that this civil servant issued more than 30 orders from the district government, which were grossly violated by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine on human rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u13	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u14	Citizens are free of conscience. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this was confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers, confirmed the manual of the Ministry, the Attorney General's Office, that this official committed crimes in many articles. And that's why we're asking questions to recommend that Yushchenka remove him immediately from office so that he doesn't aggravate the situation in the Plains and violate the criminal case against this policy at hand, and then there'll be peace in Orthodoxy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u15	Thank you. Yes, from the Assadchev voting procedure and we will be determined by vote. Please calm down, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u16	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think the commission should gather and study the court's decision because it affects her report. She made a report, but she did it without regard for what the court accepted. We have a judicial branch of authority. And the second. Let's, you know, the commission's head has a personal claim to Red. So I don't think the Supreme Council should be involved in their own divisions. She should be objective in assessing a situation. So I'm convinced that the commission should now study the decision of the court, if we have any respect for the judicial branch of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Because the people's deputies of Samoilik and Kosov have come forward and claim that they had proposals that were unaccounted for, so I'm going to put the draft to a vote on the ground, and then we're going to vote on those proposals that were made in writing and were not voted on. I'm voting on the draft order, registration number 8578 on the basis. Please vote. Based on the base. The system can't handle the stress. A vote is taken, the draft ruling is based on the vote. Registration number 8578. Based on the base. [[16:24:02]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Honorable National MPs. Who's to go back to the draft regulation 8578? You won't be able to make it again, so we won't be looking at it. Please vote. [[16:24:39]] For 235 We're back. Who's in favour of taking the draft ruling as a basis, please vote. [[16:25:02]] For 219 Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everything works, works. What's not lit up? It works, it works, it works, it works, it works, it works, it works, it works, Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u18	What's broken up? But wait. Don't shout, don't shout, don't shout. Calm down, calm down. Everybody, take your seats. All right, everybody, take your seats. We will follow the Rules. Take your seats, please. Take your seats, we'll follow the rules. Please sit down and we'll follow the Rules. Please don't attack. Who's in charge of going back to the draft regulation 8578? We've been back 20 times. Don't shout, dear fellows. As much as the budget went back. Don't shout, don't shout, don't shout. That's it. I'm asking you to calm down. Don't yell, don't shout. You're a civilized man. Don't shout. I'll calm down, please. I stopped a long time ago. Calm down. Everybody take your seats, vote in your seats. To return. Well, please, calm down, don't scare me, please. Please, Your Honor, calm down. You raise how many times we've come back, don't shout, don't shout. Don't vote with other people's cards, all of you. Here comes the vote. Don't scream. Well, please. What are you yelling at? Please, please, calm down. Calm down. Am I going to run for my faction? I'm asking you to calm down. Everything's gonna be fine. [[16:26:57]] For 230 We're back. Dear colleagues, once again, I want you all to take your seats, vote for yourselves. What do you suggest I do? Come on, calm down. For 230, we're back. Is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of a draft regulation. Well, please calm down! Well, don't scare me, for God's sake. I'm doing what's right! Calm down, please, calm down, please. Oh, come on, stop it, please. You're so nervous. [[16:27:36]] For 235 Once again, I would like to say to the honourable National MP, you keep yourself within your limits, you use your impunity and use an unorthodox, unacceptable language. I'm asking you, once again, hold on, hold on. You're comfortable with me taking advantage only of your interests, aren't you? I'm asking you to calm down! I think you need to learn some more grams. Let's go. For 235. As a basis, it's been accepted. Now Catherine Samuel. It was a position to address the Council of Europe in this regard. I think, my fellow Members, it is my personal opinion that this point is premature, because the Supreme Council must take its comprehensive action, not to address the Council of Europe. However, since there is insistence, I am putting this motion to a vote. I'm asking you, come on, calm down! [[16:28:47]] For-152. Two decisions are not made. By factions, please: “Ukraine” - 55, Communists - 56, National Party - 22, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 1, National Block - 7, SDPU (o) - 4, Ukrainian People's Party, “Rebirth” - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “One Ukraine” - 0, “Reforms and Orders” - 0, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 3, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, Mikhailo Kosov has proposed the deletion of paragraphs, please note 3, to recommend that the President of Ukraine be relieved of his post as head of the Regional Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the systematic violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on violations of the right of citizens to freedom of conscience. I am voting on this motion to exclude paragraph 3. Please vote. [[16:29:54]] For-76 The decision is not taken. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Just a minute. I'm asking you to calm down. Come and tell me, come and tell me. I'm voting on Michael Kosiv's proposal to exclude paragraph four. Content of the fourth paragraph: “Recommend to the President of Ukraine to bring to justice the Head of the Ternopil State Administration Stojk and the Head of the Suma District State Administration of the Ternopil Region in connection with their violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine”. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:30:48]] For-78 The decision is not taken. I am voting on Michael Kosiv's proposal to exclude paragraph 6 from the following content: “To invite the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to respond to the facts of the violations in the Interim Inquiry Commission's submissions, to strengthen the supervision of the enforcement of legislation regarding freedom of conscience and the activities of religious communities.” Please. [[16:31:29]] For-65 Decision taken. In addition, it was suggested that paragraph seven should be deleted: “Control of this decision should be placed on the Interim Investigation Commission, whose mandate should be extended until the measures mentioned in the decision have been implemented”. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[16:32:10]] For-66 The decision is not taken. All the corrections that have been made. Dear colleagues, that's it. Calm down, nobody gets a word. I am voting for the entire draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of citizens' rights to freedom of conscience, registration number 8578. Please vote. [[16:32:53]] For 240 It's been decided. Dear National Deputies! Just a minute. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? I want to say to some people who are trying so hard to get me off balance, screaming at all kinds of hurtful words there, when they were voting for the appropriate decisions concerning the Martyr and the others, then you applauded, didn't shout. At least be patient and tolerant, yet have some basic conscience. You didn't have it and you didn't have it. I was in politics at the time, yes, I was in politics. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. A draft law on the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2006-2011 is being announced for consideration. Calm down, please. Defence Minister Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich is invited to speak. Prepare the committee head. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This year, the Armed Forces Act was passed late, by the end of March. And it was an abnormal legal situation, because there was no legislative basis for the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in part of their number, their security. With this flaw in mind, we are introducing an early draft Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine, with the proposal of a professional parliamentary committee on national security and defence, as recommended at its meeting back then, in the spring. We are introducing a six-year draft law on the number of Armed Forces for this period. The numbers that have been conducted are based on the position of the National Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the same period, which was approved by the Government of Ukraine, which was discussed and approved at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and which is now signed to the President of Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill, and it will provide a reliable legislative basis for implementing the Armed Forces Development Programme for the next six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. Do you have a question? Is it? Please sign up for three minutes. Yes, please, on the sign-up table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Gennady Samofalov, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u21	Gennady Samofalov, faction of the regions of the Ukraine Party. Mr. Secretary, you know it's 80,000 today. homeless officers, reserve officers? People today stand for 10 years and more to get housing. In order to reduce the Armed Forces today, the problem of housing and compensation must be addressed first and foremost. To your attention, in order to obtain compensation for disability today, a person waits up to six months from Oranta. How do you plan to solve this problem today, reducing the number of Armed Ones? I'm just telling you as a representative of the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u22	First. I want to say that this is exactly the bill that is proposing to actually put a dot on that radical not always a valid shortcut that has been going on in recent years. By comparison, according to the law passed by the Supreme Council, we have reduced the number by 40,000 in the current year. Last year, over 70,000. And for the next six years, this massive reduction stops. In fact, the average reduction in the number for the next 6 years is about 16,000. This is especially true of your reasons. Well, I'd like us to share these two problems. The problem of housing is an extremely important problem, and it needs to be addressed. But whether the military will be part of the Armed Forces, whether they will be free to solve this problem does not have the proper effect, because Parliament has passed a very important law on the state social guarantees of military personnel who are being released in the process of reform, and it provides for a solution to their housing problem for 3 years. The corresponding budget costs and the following year 2006 are set up. So your question is quite right, it's taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u23	Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u24	May I have Ponmarenko, Georgi Grigorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u25	Pomorenko Georgi Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u26	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Anatoly Stepanovich, on Tuesday at the budget committee meeting, we decided on the issue of switching the cost of the article “New Arms and Ammunition Management” to the second articles. I'm saying we've solved the problem of the new technology in the army or the disposal or we. A little. Artemis, Bogdanovka, are we waiting for the second Chernobyl in Pavlovgrad? What was the position of the Ministry of Defense that you took. did not use the budget money in these articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u27	If possible, clarify the question. Is this about the current year's budget or 2006?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u28	The current year, 2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u29	These transfers of funds that are related to this year are only related to one -- in order to reach the last actual decade, which is now, to use the maximum amount of funds allocated by Parliament and allocated by the Ministry of Finance accordingly, so that there is no such thing as not solving those important issues that, for some technical, technological reasons, because they are related to the execution of tenders, sometimes because of the disruption of tenders, and so we came out of this in order to achieve the most effective result. But those figures of the State Budget, which were approved for 2006 in case, I stress this is very important -- if Parliament might have made a decision not to make two billion dollars from the Ministry of Defence, and they were allocated by the general fund, or at least there was a loan mechanism for the Ministry of Defence, if the fund was not filled from the freed military towns, they would have ensured that the tasks you set were carried out by both the viability programme and the utilization programme, much more than in the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u30	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! After considering the bill submitted by the President, the Committee supported it by a majority of votes, although another proposal was made: To confirm the number of the Armed Forces only for the following year. To be honest, it was not easy to define this issue. The fact is that the State Development Program of the Armed Forces for the next five years is unknown, it is not submitted for approval by the Supreme Council, even though the Democratic Civil Control Act requires it. In assessing the state of the Ukrainian army, I will quote the words for the President's assessment: “Despite the victories of Ukrainian peacekeepers, the Armed Forces are not yet ready for new challenges, local conflicts, terrorism, high-tech war.” I mean, they're not ready for anything, according to the president's assessment. True, NATO, NATO leaders are excited about how reforms are going. But I think in this case the right Ukrainian President is, not NATO. I would like to remind you, dear friends, that in all the years of their existence, our Armed Forces have not actually received any new kind of weaponry or weapons system. Meanwhile, 71 percent of artillery, 95 percent of armored equipment, 65 percent of combat aircraft and 77 percent of battleships are armed for 15, 20 and more years. The president recently stated that for the first time in Ukraine, power has returned to the need for defence, that the defence budget will grow by 51 percent this year and will be 8.9 billion dollars. I don't know who pushed the head of state by that number-- 51%, that's not the number. At best, it reaches 30%, provided that the 2 billion provided for in Article 82 are transferred to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Defence. It's not done. I must say that the State Budget Act does not include any proposal from the Ministry of Defence, which, unfortunately, the minister did not tell our committee. In fact, there will be no breakthrough. And secondly, we can do anything, but our army will only be viable when we take care of our military. I'll say that our military is the worst of all countries in Europe. And no, and the budget law is totally discriminatory. And these remarks are not accepted. So our decision-making can lead to the fact that by cutting down armies without actually doing anything essential to re-arming them, we're making the country more vulnerable. I'd like to take this into account when I consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u32	Yes. Questions, please write down for 3 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Demjohin, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u33	Dear Georgi Korneevich, I may be able to repeat myself, but once again we may be on the same graves. Look how many questions you and I have raised, and here in the hall, we've been to a field meeting, as you remember, in Vinnice. And the same question: Why not address the issue of housing? The example is very good: 40 apartments were built in the town of Tsurupinsk, in the region of Herson, for our veterans, for those who quit and did not get an apartment. They all went to the Ministry of Defence today. And our veterans who gave their lives to the Ministry of Defence have lost their homes. What are we going to do next? Yeah, we're cutting the numbers. What do you think must be done to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u34	We will, as you know, discuss this issue on February 8th, the issue of housing for military and law enforcement officials at parliamentary hearings. I think we'll get back to that. But I wanted to say this. We're talking to the President, to the government. We insisted that a National Security and Defence Council meeting be held on the defence budget. Finally, it was done. A decision was made as to the form in which the budget was to be protected. There's funding for both development and arms and re-arms, and for the development of our defence and industrial complex, and housing. This decision is ignored. I don't even know who's in charge, who's in charge. Either the President, or the government, or Mr. Pinzenik, who, I have the impression, is absolutely unwilling to deal with these issues. I don't know who's doing this. So until these problems are addressed by the President and the government, nothing will be done in the country with regard to defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u35	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u36	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass on the word to Mr. Gmira Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u37	Sergei Gmira, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u38	Thank you. First of all, I have every wish that there will never again be such that, speaking of the army, the Commander-in-Chief has gladly reported that the patient is dead rather than his NATO allies, that the patient is more alive. Now for the question. Georgi Korneevich, in her time, Ukraine had been passing Nazi aircraft through its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u39	And now it's leaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u40	Yeah, and now he's missing. I'd like to know how many natov planes are flying, and what kind of money does Ukraine get from this? And the army of ours, yes, probably wouldn't be too small. Really?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u41	I think my colleagues would be very interested to know these numbers. I have official help. From October 11, 2001 to November 15, 2001 under the control of successive changes in the air force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the air space of our country was crossed by U.S. and FRN, respectively, 3 000 686 and 442 times respectively by the international security forces in Afghanistan. So it's over 4,000 times. Now it's about what we got for it. Here's the help of the State-owned air traffic service company in Ukraine. She's a very eloquent, respectable friend. United States accounts of $5 million,752,000, 347 dollars, to the Federal Republic of Germany, $433 thousand,980,89 cents. Military Germany paid $392,000,501 for 13 cents, and US$0 was paid by the U.S. military. Here's your strategic partner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u42	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, let us make a decision on this matter. I mean, what do you insist on? Well, come on, let's talk for 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready, Mironka. We need to make a decision today by positive, respectful colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u43	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sir, honourable officials, distinguished Ukrainian people, the law that we are currently considering, I did not even believe that such a law could be registered on December 12th this year. It's like a New Year's gift. I'll tell you, it's been a long time since I've had a bad mood like this bill. This law should be rightly called if someone is to vote in favour of it “On the present number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and their plans to destroy them by 2011”. If so, in that context, you can vote, but then everybody understand, realize what you're doing. If we can make that clear, yes, the pace of the destruction of the armed forces has been slightly reduced. Over the course of two years, 110,000 were given, and now they're just planning 78,000, and it's going to be 8.9 billion dollars. I don't know who pushed the head of state by that number-- 51%, that's not the number. At best, it reaches 30%, provided that the 2 billion provided for in Article 82 are transferred to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Defence. It's not done. I must say that the State Budget Act does not include any proposal from the Ministry of Defence, which, unfortunately, the minister did not tell our committee. In fact, there will be no breakthrough. And secondly, we can do anything, but our army will only be viable when we take care of our military. I'll say that our military is the worst of all countries in Europe. And no, and the budget law is totally discriminatory. And these remarks are not accepted. So our decision-making can lead to the fact that by cutting down armies without actually doing anything essential to re-arming them, we're making the country more vulnerable. I'd like to take this into account when I consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u44	Yes. Questions, please write down for 3 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Demjohin, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u45	Dear Georgi Korneevich, I may be able to repeat myself, but once again we may be on the same graves. Look how many questions you and I have raised, and here in the hall, we've been to a field meeting, as you remember, in Vinnice. And the same question: Why not address the issue of housing? The example is very good: 40 apartments were built in the town of Tsurupinsk, in the region of Herson, for our veterans, for those who quit and did not get an apartment. They all went to the Ministry of Defence today. And our veterans who gave their lives to the Ministry of Defence have lost their homes. What are we going to do next? Yeah, we're cutting the numbers. What do you think must be done to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u46	We will, as you know, discuss this issue on February 8th, the issue of housing for military and law enforcement officials at parliamentary hearings. I think we'll get back to that. But I wanted to say this. We're talking to the President, to the government. We insisted that a National Security and Defence Council meeting be held on the defence budget. Finally, it was done. A decision was made as to the form in which the budget was to be protected. There's funding for both development and arms and re-arms, and for the development of our defence and industrial complex, and housing. This decision is ignored. I don't even know who's in charge, who's in charge. Either the President, or the government, or Mr. Pinzenik, who, I have the impression, is absolutely unwilling to deal with these issues. I don't know who's doing this. So until these problems are addressed by the President and the government, nothing will be done in the country with regard to defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u47	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u48	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass on the word to Mr. Gmira Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u49	Sergei Gmira, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u50	Thank you. First of all, I have every wish that there will never again be such that, speaking of the army, the Commander-in-Chief has gladly reported that the patient is dead rather than his NATO allies, that the patient is more alive. Now for the question. Georgi Korneevich, in her time, Ukraine had been passing Nazi aircraft through its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u51	And now it's leaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u52	Yeah, and now he's missing. I'd like to know how many natov planes are flying, and what kind of money does Ukraine get from this? And the army of ours, yes, probably wouldn't be too small. Really?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u53	I think my colleagues would be very interested to know these numbers. I have official help. From October 11, 2001 to November 15, 2001 under the control of successive changes in the air force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the air space of our country was crossed by U.S. and FRN, respectively, 3 000 686 and 442 times respectively by the international security forces in Afghanistan. So it's over 4,000 times. Now it's about what we got for it. Here's the help of the State-owned air traffic service company in Ukraine. She's a very eloquent, respectable friend. United States accounts of $5 million,752,000, 347 dollars, to the Federal Republic of Germany, $433 thousand,980,89 cents. Military Germany paid $392,000,501 for 13 cents, and US$0 was paid by the U.S. military. Here's your strategic partner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u54	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, let us make a decision on this matter. I mean, what do you insist on? Well, come on, let's talk for 10 minutes. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready, Mironka. We need to make a decision today by positive, respectful colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sir, honourable officials, distinguished Ukrainian people, the law that we are currently considering, I did not even believe that such a law could be registered on December 12th this year. It's like a New Year's gift. I'll tell you, it's been a long time since I've had a bad mood like this bill. This law should be rightly called if someone is to vote in favour of it “On the present number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and their plans to destroy them by 2011”. If so, in that context, you can vote, but then everybody understand, realize what you're doing. If we can make that clear, yes, the pace of the destruction of the armed forces has been slightly reduced. In two years, 110,000 immediately was given, and now only 78,000 are planned to be destroyed. Yeah, it's slowing down a little bit. But whoever made the statement from our military, from our foreign ministry, from our administration. Condoleezza Rice flew in, told you all the Ukrainians were under us. In Romania, now four NATO military forces have formed immediately. What security assurances did Ukraine receive? Zero! Zero! Zero! Nothing, we didn't even discuss it. Is that such a question? And we say, "Let's keep cutting." We're told 10 mechanized units, we're going to make the shells, we're going to leave everything in a Divisional principle, we're going to leave the shells behind. So, are those shells? They're tank shells! 14 new tanks in 15 years of independence of Ukraine is all we have with you. I'm not saying modernization. No aircraft, no helicopter, nothing new, and we're saying that human power is about to be released, what? Well, there are a lot of them: 245,000 military personnel, Mino Defence personnel, 391,000 pensioners, 585 members of military families, Mino-Defense pensioners, then the number of medical facilities should be reduced. Is that really something to say or think about? On the contrary, we need to turn our faces to these people, provide them with medicine and everything. I insist that this decision to visit the committee today was not right, in general, we should have said that it was unacceptable to. According to the Constitution, this is not a guarantee of the security of the state. Put a dot on it! And we should clearly say: “No! The destruction of the Armed Forces. No! No! Such a mindless reduction in Odessa is being destroyed by the Institute of Land Forces," the three institutions were once in the square, now there will be no one. I won't vote for that. I want the vote to be a noun, let everyone take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u56	Yes. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u57	Mironenko, factions of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots in five years The Ukrainian Armed Forces will be reduced to 64,000 troops and 38,000 employees. With regard to the President and the Government who have been dismissed today, it can be said with confidence that a large part of those who have been laid off will be unemployed and will fill the army of the unemployed. This will be a disaster for many families and for the country as a whole. Secondly, the faction of the Company of Ukraine cannot vote in favour of the bill because it is intended to symbolize reform. But it's a disgrace, not a reform. Any reform must be carried out on a well-planned basis, in accordance with the clear concept of the development of the Armed Forces, which implies both strategic allies and possible threats and many more. We have no such concept of the development of the Armed Forces. Secondly, we do not even have the opportunity to say at this stage that we will have a powerful Armed Forces at least in the near future. On the contrary, I agree with Georgi Korneevich Krüchkov, it is scary when the Ministry of Defence asks for certain amounts, the Defence Committee. And certainly the President, the government is not responding. No modernization of the Armed Forces will be seen for many years, but the army will also be destroyed. And in order for us to have the development of the Armed Forces, beyond the concept, we also need to develop the economy. This is the basis for the development of the Armed Forces, but this base is also being destroyed. Note why we don't have any money in the budget for anything, including the Armed Forces. Because we have a criminal capitalist course, universal privatization. As a result, no funds are made available to the budget. And if we keep going, so will we. We, the communists, propose to stop this plundering privatization, to ensure that the strategic budgeting industries are returned to the public sector. This will ensure significant amounts for the development of the Armed Forces. We propose to take a clear look at and prevent the privatization of ports, railways, which will also weaken the defence capacity of our Armed Forces to privatize these facilities. And I just want to say with resentment, so-called patriots. When American planes fly by and pay nothing, the factions, so-called patriotic, listen when the whole of Europe is outraged at the fact that fascists who call themselves American citizens organize prisons in Europe, these so-called sales patriots listen calmly. But only if we're talking about developing friendly relationships.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u58	Samofalov instead of Nadrag. And all, the last speaker. Invite the national deputies to the session room, we'll make a decision now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to say that today we are considering the most sinister, most pressing issue. Only recently, under the leadership of Vladimir Mihajlović, 47 public officers were assembled, with a mass of claims against the President, the Government and the leadership of the Armed Forces. What is it? First. I have already asked questions and said that today, some 80,000 personnel and non-residential personnel are waiting for more than 28,000 people to be accommodated for more than 10 years, of whom 5,000 are over 60 years of age. It's a very acute problem. Therefore, today, when considering the reduction of the Armed Forces, it is primarily necessary to provide housing, cash satisfaction and compensation to officers. Next. To ensure the monetary satisfaction of the property and so forth. I want to tell you, in my second call, I was the head of the budget subcommittee. Structures, then there was also the issue of reduction. It really needs to be reduced, because today, with the preparation of our boys in general and with the service of the year, it's not an army. But then we counted and came to a conclusion, to reduce 50,000 officers, it was more advantageous to have an army of 350,000 because there was no way to compensate for what they were given. I think that the question today should not be about the prospect of 3.4.5 years, but rather about a reduction of one year in 2006. It's all good to read. In general, Mr. Minister, in order to address the issue of the Armed Forces, I would like to make you an offer. First, we must today form the budget of the Armed Forces up to a combat unit before the regiment. Then we'll be clear. They gave money to the regiment, including strict control over where they went. Second. I think today we need to eliminate the commercialization of the Armed Forces, stop trading property, stop trading sanatoriums, and so on. The Armed Forces must undertake military training of their functional importance. Third. You'll see, please, what's going on with your personnel. There must be high-class professionals here because the commander of the regiment makes decisions at the level of consciousness, and before that, he must go through all categories. This also applies to the leadership of the Armed Forces. Therefore, I think that if these problems are resolved correctly, then the issue of the effective reduction of the Armed Forces and their actual purpose to our country can be raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u60	Yeah, one minute. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u61	Dear friends, I would like to pay attention to the tasks facing the army. We had a Soviet army, we had a Soviet Fatherland, a country socialist. What's the contagion? It's like a national army that's supposed to protect the bourgeois-democratic homeland and the capitalist homeland. That is why hired men appear in the army who are willing to serve anyone for money. So we need to cut down on the national element in the army and keep only the mercenaries in it. So we need to go under NATO's umbrella to protect ourselves from what appears to be a northern neighbour. It's not an army, it's an obstinacy, it's a blasphemy to Europe and an agreement to NATO. So I demand to reject such a bill and to express my mistrust to the Ministry of Defence along with all the political Camarilia that supports this course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u62	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'll ask Defence Minister Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka to speak. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful that you have raised very important questions concerning the Armed Forces. And it's obvious that the people sitting in this room are very important that the army be strengthened and developed. We have heard many suggestions and questions that unfortunately do not apply to this law. It's not about privatization of ports, railways, it's not about flying NATO planes, it's not about many other issues that have been raised. Of course, they need to be resolved. As far as commercialization is concerned. I want to say that this is the very hall that passed the 2006 Budget Act, according to which the Ministry of Defence should earn 3 billion. I'm a minister against the Ministry of Defense earning and willing to put a stop to this commercial activity, but Parliament has adopted this document, I can't do anything else. Just like, unfortunately, there's a document in Parliament that says that a soldier's life in the event of death costs 17,000 dollars, while a policeman's life costs 100,000 dollars. There's no rational explanation for that. I would like to review this 55th article of the Budget Law after it has been adopted. It's about the law of numbers. Let's make a choice consciously, and I should, as a minister, inform you that there are no illusions. From what we leave in the Armed Forces, we're not going to reduce 24,000 people, there's not going to be a munition higher if there's no new technology, if there's no funds, you're talking about it yourself. So we need to understand that we need a legislative basis for quantity. As a compromise, the proposal sounded "accepting the number for 2006". The Ministry of Defense will accept this approach. Although it was the national MPs who asked for the law immediately for six years, it was George Korniyovich Kruchev’s proposal. We went to meet. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. What's the point? I would like, Mr. People's Deputys, before you mobilize for the vote, to tell the distinguished Anatoly Stepanovich that this is the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Supreme Council, that the Ministry of Defence is going to make three billion dollars, and that's what the Cabinet of Ministers has accepted, you are a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. You voted in favour of this budget. And the Supreme Council fixed what it could. Unfortunately, she can't fix it. Yes, three minutes, sign up for a vote. Three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Victor Slauta, “Ukraine’s Regions”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u65	Please pass the word to Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u66	There's no slalot. Please, Loboda Mikhailo, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u67	I'd like to give it to Samylik Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u68	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u69	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I still think that, really, it's premature for us to adopt the bill right on. on the number of Armed Forces for 2006-2011. I think we should support the proposal made by Georgi Korniyovich. We need to confirm the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces only for the following year. Because we know that the political situation is changing after the elections in the state, there will be new approaches. And I think there's finally going to be government, patriotic forces, and we don't have to cover everything up again. That's the first one. And second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, of course I would also like to say. Yesterday, when meeting with the minister of culture and tourism, he says: “This is what your committees are cutting us up and giving us no money.” After all, when we have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u70	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, please. None. Michael Gladys. Dear colleagues, calm down, please! Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u71	I ask you to pass the word to Lukyanek Levk Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u72	Lejko Grigorovich Lukjanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u73	Yulia Timoshenko, Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that this law be passed in such a way that we approve the reduction of the Armed Forces for 2006 and no longer reduce. The problem is that in parallel with this reduction in the Armed Forces, it was necessary to modernize weapons. The modernization of arms does not take place, as both our minister and Kruczkov, head of our committee, reported. So just the reduction of the Armed Forces, it won't strengthen our defenses. So we need to improve our weapons first and in parallel, and then we need to talk about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u74	Yes, Dmitry Rudkowski, PPE faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u75	I'd like to address the honourable minister. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have just advocated on the budget committee that military officials also be compensated, but Comrade Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, a member of the government he represented. Not a member, Deputy Minister of Finance, but the Ministry of Finance is definitely against the MP, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. And the second question is, what? To trade, it's also an initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. I want to say that Parliament is on the side of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. Now, the government that you're a member of is making a whole other offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u76	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts. Now I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote now, please. Dear colleagues, there will now be a vote, we must make an extremely important, responsible decision. Please prepare for the vote. I put it to a vote: on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act “On the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine for 2006-2011”, registration number 8564. Please vote. Here comes the vote, please vote, Your Honor. Please vote. [[17:06:28]] For-153
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u77	I won't. Here comes the vote. Just a minute. Dear folk, well, what's the procedure? Well, listen, please. Committee, report to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u78	Turn off the microphone. Let's go to the factions, please. The factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 26, People's Party – 11, Block Timoshenko – 33, SPI – 9, National Block – 18, SDPU – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, “Rebirth” – 6, National Movement of Ukraine – 15, “Reforms and Order” – 12, “One Ukraine” – 6, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 9, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, we take responsibility. They're bringing in the Cabinet of Ministers, they see. After the election, a new government will be formed, and we will review it. Please don't disturb me. Let me speak, please don't disturb me. You're raised people. Calm down, sit down, please. It's okay. Dear colleagues, please. Please, have a seat. It's a procedure, not here. Sit down, please. Sit down, please. Out of procedure, three minutes, please sign in. Invite the deputies to the session room, but we need to make a decision. Demjochin, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u79	I would like to take the floor to the People's Deputy of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u80	Paul Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, today the Minister of Defense of Ukraine is deceiving the government's bed, thus turning over the charges, and referring them to Parliament. First of all, he is guilty of not defending the interests of military officials in government, in government meetings. And he comes into the bed today, and weeps, that as the people’s deputies do not support. I want to say that the Minister of Internal Affairs has protected his militia and you, as a minister, have not defended the military. And today you're the hostage of making an offer to reduce the military. You were against it last year, your faction is opposing, shortening. Today, you throw out soldiers on the streets who will go into unemployment, who will not be provided, and families will suffer. And this is all your fault, Mr. Secretary of Defense. Shame on you. You and today's government, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, let's move this conversation to a professional river. We have adopted a law with you that provides for an order of release and without the implementation of regulations that are provided for by law have no right to be released. And let us not accuse the minister of having no sins. Let's be, dear fellows, tolerant of each other. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u83	Thank you. Please pass the word to Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u84	Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, well, the situation is clear. Indeed, it is better to look ahead, but with this approach to financing, to addressing the urgent problems of defense, we certainly cannot support it. I'd like to say a little bit in defense of the minister, because he was fighting, really, for not being allowed to, but no one was listening to him. He is responsible for as much as the President, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance owes him. So I propose to support the proposal of the Domansky People's Deputy and to vote for just one year on the basis of budgetary matters. And the other questions will be passed on to the next Supreme Council. Perhaps the situation will change and the defense will change. So far, one thing is to subdue NATO and bring down the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u86	Anton Ruzicki, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u87	Anton Ruzicki, Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Stepan Davimucci.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u88	Stepan Davemuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u89	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, it is very important for the military to be determined. The situation now in the army is qualitatively new. Now it's only on account of those military parts that deal with the problems of the past. It's a set of shells, everything else. At the same time, the process has already begun as progressive, with arms purchases, new arms purchases, and so forth. This is the first, this is a turning point, but I would still point out that for the military, we need to make a decision, although next year will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u90	Yes. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So let's, so we voted on the basis and in general, now I'm going to put a separate, separate proposal to the vote. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Armed Forces Bill 2006-2011. Registration number is 8564. Please vote! I ask everyone to vote! [[17:12:36]] For-191 The decision is not taken. Okay. By factions, please: “Ukraine” - 1, Communists - 0, National Party - 23, “Our Ukraine” - 33, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPI - 23, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, “Rebirth” - 7, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, “One Ukraine” - 7, “Reforms and Orders” - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 9, non-fractional - 10. Dear colleagues! Georgi Korniyovich, what are we going to do? But, come on, the Rules, we need to make some decisions, because we're just driving people away and, including people in pursuit, and we're not going to make any decisions. Please, Kruczkov Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u91	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's decide the number for 2006. This is what we did in the Department of State Security when we were offered a huge increase, in this case a decrease, and we put it at that point. Next year it'll be different, maybe it'll be a different question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u92	Does the Ministry of Defense support such a proposal? Anatoly Stepanovich, do you support such a proposal that we now make a decision on the number for 2006?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u93	I think that would be a good compromise decision that would not leave the army indeterminate. Please, we agree with this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u94	I put to the vote for adoption on the basis and in general the Ukrainian Armed Forces Number Act in the following part: “Confirm the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces as of 30 December 2006 in the number of up to 221,000 personnel, including 165 thousand military personnel”. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:14:56]] For 273 The law is passed. Now we're going to take another one, well, so we're not going to vote anyway. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 54, “Our Ukraine” -36, “The People’s Party” – 36, Block Timoshenko – 34, SPU – 25, National Block – 21, SDPU(o) - 0, National Party – 2, “Rebirth” – 9, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “Reforms and Order” – 13, “Only Ukraine” – 9, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 4, non-fractional – 13. Dear colleagues, two factions, two or two insist on either a break or a performance. SDPU(o) and the UK Company. Please, who's going to perform? Nestor Schuffrich. Well, we need to adopt another law that applies to the army. What's the break?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u95	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Interesting things are happening in Ukraine. Yushchenko has come to the point of calling Parliament the main factor of destabilization in the country. I want to say that there is a greater factor to destabilization than Yushchenko himself in the country and that it is difficult to come up with. And I would also like to say that we are deeply outraged by the position of the budgetary committee and its leadership, which deliberately ignores the directives and instructions of the Supreme Council leadership in order to submit to us for consideration Bills 8334, 8334-2, so that we can consider and, at least theoretically, send to Sberbank the money received from the sale of the Krivorostali. An interesting document was provided by the Ministry of Finance today and we now understand why consideration of the bill is avoided. Of the 24 billion grevens, there are only one billion 251 million left, which have been allocated to some incomprehensible stabilization fund in the draft budget and already in the Budget Act for the following year. What has the Ministry of Finance confirmed today? What we warned you about. Nine billion 600 million grevens are aimed at covering the debts of the current 2005 budget, i.e. they have committed debts and have been closed by people, and 10 billion bracelets have been insolvent enough to pay off future debts next year. But, gentlemen, if you're broke, say so, admit it, not hide behind the evidence. We insist that this bill be considered today. If there is no representative of the budget committee and we no longer have a budget committee, we have a branch of the Ministry of Finance. I would say otherwise, unfortunately, we must note that the management of the budget committee has assumed the functions of the lackeys and the official of the Ministry of Finance, otherwise it cannot be called. We insist that this bill be considered. Only we got another interesting message, now from Turkmenistan. It seems that the famous Minister of Energy is flying not only without Russian gas but also without Turkmen gas. We ask, together with our colleagues, that tomorrow the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ehanurov, the Minister of Energy of Plačkov and our well-known Kunovite, along with NAK Naftegaza Ivchenko and tell us that we have gas, gas or no gas. And so that we can return to the relevant draft regulation No. 8533. We ask these two laws to be put to the vote now: the Crimsonstall Act and the draft decree to be heard tomorrow by the heads of government and the PEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u96	Please calm down. Dear National Deputies! We don't have a line on this. I mean, that's relative. One minute, one minute, give me a statement of two factions and you'll make a statement. Dear colleagues! I want to talk about it now. Well, wait, I'll say it without you. First of all, I would ask the speakers: first, (a) not to offend the President of Ukraine, not to offend the Head of State; (b) to speak tolerantly and considerately to our colleagues who work on other committees; (c) the Committee on Budgets give papers and we put them to a vote, now there is no subject to vote. I would like to say again, I am now giving the order to the first deputy or request, the commission is not to say so, so that he can understand the stage at which he proposed when we are considering the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the third, or fourth, is about listening to information about the gas situation. Let us make a draft decision with the invitation of the Prime Minister, the minister. There is no such draft decree. I'll put him to the vote. All right, I've responded. To whom do I give my word? Let's sign up now. If there's trash, let's write it down, let's do it. Two more factions are the factions of Ukraine and the People's Block. Who will act? Anatoly Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u97	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, election block of Vladimir Litvina. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction group of the Block of Vladimir Lithuania, I would like to express my concern and appeal to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the basis of the state-wide problem that has arisen in the state concerning the transfer of military towns, more than 500 of them to Ukraine today, as required by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation of 21.09.98 No. 1482 “On the order of transfers of property rights to local self-government.” As far as towns are concerned, they are mostly looted and sold out in Ukraine. I can illustrate this from the city of Tokmak of Zaporezka, where the military area of A-2213, which served the military airport, was located. Last year, part of it was dissolved, and its assets were transferred to the military section of Melitopolis. The management of Tokmak, together with the military command, carried out all the necessary work during 2004-2005 to prepare appropriate documents for the transfer of military property to the local government authorities, namely 418 ha of land and 49 properties, which were almost completely destroyed, to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city. A large part of the land area of 150 hectares is under iron concrete plates. At this time, the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine is active in dismantling and selling plates. Of the 26,000 plates at the airport, some 18,000 were exported. There's an area where the plates are taken off with the rest of the building materials -- the tar, the rock, the sand. Notable land in its present condition cannot be used. After the plate was removed, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, in accordance with article 166 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, should re-enact the land. Recycling and dismantling, according to the Administration of Air Force Command, requires 10.5 million dollars. At the same time, the funds for the 2004-2005 recuperation of the Ministry of Defence have not been allocated and their arrival is problematic. At the same time, the land of the decommissioned airport will need to be used as an agricultural asset in the future. It is predicted that all of this will be a heavy burden on the local budget. And so for almost two years of mistrust in the administration of local governments, I personally did not get the results, without looking at the resolution of former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko of today's Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich, his instructions of 09.12.05 yesterday during the meeting with me personally and the heads of the Tokyo District State Administration from the finance minister Pinzenik Viktor Mikhajlovich received an answer, a refusal to do so. This territory is to the authorities of local self - government. More shame, I'll tell you, I didn't see it. Therefore, I hope that the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, will return to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u98	Thank you. Two more factions call for a break: the UNP and the NRA factions. Who will speak from you? Valery Assadchev, please. And then we'll move on. Assadchev. And Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u99	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We took a break so that we could get out of this rostrum and say the following. I am the deputy head of the head of the Budget Committee. And I want to tell you that the Budget Committee has worked hard in its budget work. The deputies worked nightly and nightly. And none at all. The underbellys were never the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, we wouldn't have added nearly 10 billion to the budget. And I would like to tell you, Nestor Ivanovich, that unfortunately you weren't working on the budget with us. So I think you at least have no moral right to insult the members of the Committee on Budgets. Now it's about money from "Criminal." I want to remind you again: no debt has been paid. Moreover, Ukraine's debt in 2004 and 2005 and 2006 will decrease altogether because the government does not borrow. And the money went to cover the deficit, which is aimed at pension payments. And that's more than 15 billion dollars spent on pension payments. If you want to take this money away from your pensioners, don’t hide it. And in the 2005 budget, almost seven billion in pension payments, in 2006, almost eight billion in pension payments. So let's be fair and tolerant. And I would like very much not to offend the members of the Committee on Budgets who are always working very hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u100	Thank you. Well, dear fellows, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, two factions workman: PRP and “Our Ukraine”. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. And I want to calm this room down, because my proposal, I think, is consolidating our hall. I propose to go back to the law under number 4417 on energy conservation. In these circumstances, when Ukraine negotiates very difficultly, deepening its work on energy conservation is extremely important. This must be a consolidated position for us to raise the culture of our nation. And this is not a political issue, this is primarily an element of respect for our production, for our way of life as such. So I would like to ask the chairman to put the day-to-day return to this question, to vote in kind, and then to be friendly. All positions were discussed in the committee, they received support, proposals all taken into account, except for one proposal from Mr. Kukob, but only because it relates to the sphere of activity of another Law on Local Self-Government. So, honourable colleagues, please return with good faith, and this will be worth our answer to the problems that the Ukrainian state faces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u102	Yeah, okay, have a seat. Honorable National MPs. Well, now, now, Nestor Ivanovich, one minute. Dear colleagues, perhaps in the spirit of understanding us in the session hall, we went back to reviewing drafts. 4417 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act. [[on new energy saving trends]] How do you propose that we put to the vote the return to the consideration of this bill? Will you stand up properly? That's why I'm voting on the proposal by Jury the Ripper to return to the review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act. [[on new energy saving trends]] Registration number 4417. Please vote. Please vote. The Law is vital. [[17:29:00]] For 249 They went back to reviewing the draft Law. Who is in favour of adopting the draft Law on Amendments to the Energy Savings Act of Ukraine in the second reading and as a whole as a law, please vote. [[on new energy saving trends]] Please vote. [[17:29:33]] For 277 The law was passed. You see, fellow officers, and there's no shouting that we're re-applying to the draft law. A replica called Nestor Schufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u103	The position of our faction, our representatives on the Budget Committee, has been known, open and open from the very beginning. As soon as we have seen that this budget drives Ukraine into debt, we say that we will not take part in the development of this shameful treacherous budget. But I would like to remind you exactly how our faction's representatives worked day and night during the adoption of the 2003 budget, 2004, 2005 budget, which was accepted by our government, and that was the farthest, most successful budget that has ever provided for the development of our country. And we supported, by the way, counting one billion 600 million dollars for pension financing, covering a hole in the Pension Fund that you and your orange gang made. And today we're saying that you stole 18 billion dollars from the people of Ukraine that we could pay off the savings of the USSR Savings. And you're the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the names weren't called. Please calm down. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service is being announced for consideration, a new edition. Registration number 8047. The rapporteur is Mr Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko, Minister of Defence. The focal point will be the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we need to make this decision, and then we will determine how to proceed, whether we continue or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u105	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, first of all, I thank you very much for supporting the previous bill. Now the armed forces have a legal basis for at least one year and that's a positive result. As far as the bill on the new drafting of the law on general military duty and military service is concerned, this law is not at all conflict. He's been out there for a long time and we've been cooperating with a professional parliamentary committee. In the opinion of both the committee and the Ministry of Defence and the government, this document is ready for first reading. He'll let you solve a lot of the questions that are already in time: and what's going on with strengthening the Sergeant Corps, transferring the military names of flags, senior flags to the highest level of sergeants, and what's going on with reservement and reserve services, because, frankly, those more than 6 million reserve holders that exist on paper, and many of you also reserve officers, and never called and will never be called to any assembly or training, are really fiction. And that's why there's a normative basis for looking at the defence needs of the state and this category. The introduction of a new service, a reserve for a limited number of people, is also envisaged. As an experiment, we could have had about a thousand and two hundred people already this year, and it would have been those people who would have gone through serious congregations for about three weeks and who would have gotten the money for it, and they would have been properly motivated. In addition, there is order and review, and selection for military service, boards, boards include representatives of educational bodies, internal affairs with minors, and social psychologists. It's possible to make an estimate of those people who, for medical reasons, already have limitations, not on the edge of 18 years of age, but before, 16-17 years of age, so as not to bore people's heads. In addition, taking into account the fact that the recruitment contingent is much larger than it needs to be, and taking into account the social demands of the population, it is also envisaged to introduce new suspensions to conscripts, such as women who are pregnant and orphaned, to adherents who, in the framework of official contracts and agreements, are being trained in the educational institutions of other States, who continue to receive and receive the following higher levels of education, which are taught in the field of boarding, law or doctoral education, and in all levels, as well as candidates of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Please support this bill in the first reading. The comments made by the committee and the proper administration of the Supreme Council Secretariat are, in our view, correct and we are prepared to work with the committee to finalize this law and to adopt it as a whole after we have finished our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the minister? None. Thank you. Sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Demyohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u107	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! I understand that this bill aims at improving the professional level of the Armed Forces, which means improving military training. Tell me, what do you plan to do in the first place? First. Po, you're still in training? Indeed, it is not a secret for many, when it is pure propaganda, to call for, for example, the annual service. It's all probably for the paper. Today, the mass of conscripts has been diverted from service in every way, and mechanisms have been found until bribes have been paid. How are we going to deal with this? We have more than a need for conscripts. Finally, the last. What is being done in the Armed Forces today in terms of patriotic education? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u108	Thank you. These questions are very important, although they are not the subject of this law, but I will not run away from the answer and the mail from the last. What's going on with the Patriotic Army. I think it's a very important direction. In the current year, we did a pilot project, including with the city of Ukraine, the Kyiv region and the city's head, to work out a set of measures that allow for the reduction of the level of military patriotic education of young people, starting with schools. We take classes to the military, which, unfortunately, are not overloaded by combat training. They, the children, see military technology. Children of older age have the ability to shoot at firearms. This is useful for bringing the army closer to society. Our military goes to school, to classes, and, well, to a higher level, they conduct appropriate activities. Our military orchestras go according to the city’s people. We select and allow better students to participate in military training. Take part in the open days in the military. And now this experience extends to all the Armed Forces and to all the places. I'd like to count on local government. In addition, on Santa Day, we finished a competition with the children “How I Protect the Motherland.” This was initiated by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Over 32,000 children of three age groups took part in this competition throughout our country, ranging from 6 to 16 years. And these people, the winners, more than a hundred people were gathered in the Central Officer's House, and the Secretary of Defense met with them. They visited the National Academy of Defense of Ukraine. We saw the technology, the Central Military Museum, the Museum of the Great Homeland War. And this is also a very important step. I could count a lot. But I'm going to put a dot on this right now and realize that we're looking at this problem the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u109	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u110	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Anatoly Stepanovich, of course, gives us some of this at times in such an ideal state. Doesn't it seem to you that the authority of the Armed Forces is failing? I'm, for example, worried about that. And look, please, who is serving in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces today. Children of those who cannot redeem themselves or find a disease. Children of peasants, children of unemployed, children of workers. This is actually a testimony to the morality of our society. So what I do and will do is do your ministry to increase the authority of the service itself in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, although I understand very well that this cannot be achieved until we, in specific matters in young people, cultivate love for our Fatherland, and we cannot raise it, because neither the right to receive education nor the right to work nor the right to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u111	Thank you for your question. It really shows that many millions of people have come up with such questions, and for me, as a former military, it is also question number one. The thing is, we can't say that there's a catastrophic decline in trust, in support of the Armed Forces, in view of what period. In fact, it started to fall somewhere else on the verge of the beginning of restructuring, when they started treating the army properly, there went the distorted information about the army, there was military training, it wasn't the process of last year or the year before. If we speak now, we now have a positive trend, and even the latest appeals show that the minimal problems with assembly, more than that, there are complaints to the Secretary of Defense that someone has not been taken into the Armed Forces. And that's also a fact. And to make a major breakthrough in that direction. First. We need to make the service interesting. If there's combat training, if there's flying, shooting, going out into the sea, it'll be interesting for the boys, first of all. Although I'm saying that we don't have a fight against women who want to join the contract service right now, we're even limiting this process, even though we already have over 20,000. Women in the Armed Forces. Second, and it's very important to clean up corruption and abuse in the army, so that the military is respected and there are no dirty stains on military uniforms. And in this regard, the work is also open and running. I think maybe we'll work with the committee, we'll find other ways, but I'd like to make sure that the words that have been spoken here haven't been quoted by the President as saying that the state is returning face to face, and that the military budget that is scheduled for next year, if it is provided with resources, and that Parliament can still make adjustments, even though this has been made by the government. I think it'll give us an opportunity to talk about the year 2006 being the year of a serious rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u112	Yes, the honourable national MPs, the minister's report and the answer to the minister's questions have been completed. I want to thank you. I invite the head of Anatoly Domansky's subcommittee to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u113	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, this law that we are discussing today addresses the main issues of the recruitment of the Armed Forces by personnel and the manner in which they carry out their service. You remember, in 2001, I was reporting a draft of the same law where we discussed and adopted it. More than four years had passed and the issue of the law had again become on the agenda. Why? Major changes in the armed forces have taken place, and this organizational structure has changed. New concepts have emerged: reserve service, reserve service, contractual service. Today, new military ranks have emerged in this project, which will provide for it. by changing the structure. There are also new approaches to the issue of age limits. There's a discussion. The list of persons eligible for deferral if he is a soldier is also called upon to serve on the list and who is entitled to deferment. Today, the concept of personnel or the concept of “staffing officers” of contractors has emerged. You all have this law on your hands. There is much debate in this law about the ratio of officers to regular sergeants, generals. Figures are given here. I don't want your attention if they're going to be discussed on second reading, I'll explain the reasons and the calculations. If there are 100,000 troops in our army, there will be no more than 500 generals, so the estimate of 0.5 per cent of the staff should be, according to the world's generals, I don't say, officers. Comrades, one day, two days could be discussed around this law. This law does not conflict with other laws and the Constitution. But there are issues that can be discussed. One MP has such a notion or opinion, one believes that the colonel must be dismissed at 50 years of age, the other believes that at 55 years of age. One thinks the captain needs to be fired at 40, at 45. And other questions. That's why I'd like to ask you. Our committee considered, everyone weighed, we looked at all the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, but they were controversial. They don't have to reject that provision. The political nature, that is, can be discussed, can be found the opinion that we will draw from our concepts and approaches. Therefore, our committee yesterday considered and requested you to enact this law on first reading. And we'll work with you on each article. I think there will be a good law that will look to the future of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u114	Yes, I thanked the head of the subcommittee. Dear colleagues, are we going to make decisions? No warning? Okay. Yuri Carmazin, please turn on the microphone. That's what George Carmazin says, he signed up, he's speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, this Law is mildly said to be very controversial, just controversial, very controversial. I don't know how you feel, I'm not feeling very well right now, after the adoption of the previous Law. Without getting a formalized document, that is, a document submitted by the Government to the Supreme Council on the number of armed forces for 2006. Now we've solved the fate of just as many as 24,000 people, with a voice like Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's in the Numbers Act and this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, because you said, "You have to make a decision." Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is “some” 23,000, 24,000 people for“ some ” decision to go out and fill the ranks of the unemployed again. It's justifiably what we do. Speaking of which, I repeat. If it were someone else, in some other case, we wouldn't have done it, we would have done it here. Now about this law, specifically this, although it also applies to the previous and how many people it will apply. Because if we continue to make decisions like this, there will be no more military, and there will be no need to make any decisions. Additional military ranks are being introduced — brigade general, brigade admiral. We had this planned a few years ago. Four, five years ago, we had such bills that Julia Timoshenko had just introduced. It was behind her signature that the bill came. But these brigade generals and brigade admirals, they're senior officers, they're not senior officers. What are we doing? What's this pad? Why? Let's see what the purpose of this is. Then, well in proportion, all in all, they need to be discussed and discussed. But let's see, the composition of the flag is why you want to translate it into a sergeant's, a senior warehouse. Why would you do that? Are we making this better? Will we make it easier for anyone to live in the army today after the adoption of such a law? You know, I meet every day and look at people who are thrown out of the army who aren't being accepted, who aren't being answered. I write these references, I write them on the wall, addressed to the Ministry of Defense, to the government, to the Council of National Security and Defence. And I'm asking, what are we going to have with this kind of legal defense? That's how it turns out we take care of people. I don't know, I won't raise my hand to vote for this law even in the first reading. It won't come up easy. It's got to be worked out. We need to understand what concept we want and at the conceptual level we need to see who is taking responsibility, what is the political power? If it's a new prime minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u116	Thank you. I'd just like to emphasize one thing, dear fellows, let's not humiliate each other's eyes, because, I said, let's vote first position and it was a committee proposal to recognize the number of armed forces exclusively for 2006. Let's move on to another one. We will continue to make other decisions. And to say that someone voted, someone was thrown into the street, you and I adopted a law that clearly spelled out guarantees, as a result of the reduction and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Yes. Please, Mironenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u117	Please pass the word Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u118	Maria Marcus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u119	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. The honourable chairman, respected colleagues, the faction of Communists supported the adoption of the bill in the first reading with such motives. Its acceptance will allow for a clearer settlement of issues related to the fulfilment of the constitutional obligation of citizens or during their military service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. This will lead to a regulation of how citizens are trained for and carried out military service. Ukraine has also approved the State Programme for the Conversion of the Armed Forces into the recruitment of contracted military personnel. The above-mentioned programme states that, starting in 2015, the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces will take place exclusively on a contractual basis. The proposed law is designed to implement measures aimed at moving towards the integration of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by contract. Yet there are some points to this bill. Since 2000, the State authorities have been initiating a step - by - step decline in the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In view of the above, the proposal to include in the list of military titles new names such as brigade generals and brigade generals is inappropriate. Part two of article 2 of the project states that individuals carrying out military duties are being assembled with a special composition of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. Yet we have this situation in conflict with the rules of other regulations, which state that military personnel are also serving in the foreign service, as well as in the Ukrainian Security Council. Part three of an article in the second project lists the types of military service. Five are offered. However, only one definition is given in the draft law. Thus, one type of military service is identified from among others as being more perfect and necessary in terms of standardization techniques. This is unacceptable. The fourth part of the second article of the sixth draft stipulates that only a civilian is appointed to serve as the defence minister. However, this contradicts part two of the eighth article of the Ukrainian Act on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, which provides for the possibility of appointment to a given position and military service. A number of comments and suggestions were also made by the Chief Legal Authority under the bill, which deserves attention and consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u120	Yes. Thank you, Maria Andriyevna. Yes, Your Honor, shall we vote? May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote. A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. [[new editor]] Registration number 8047. Please vote on the basis. And then we'll work together. Please vote. [[17:52:24]] For 258. Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine is under review for 2001-2004. We continue our work in the evening session for 15 minutes. Registration numbers 7813, 7813-1. The reporter of Czernowetsk. Very short. We'll make a decision, then we'll finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u121	Little by little, Vladimir Mihajlovich, people have been in prison for three years or four years because they fought for freedom against the criminal regime already and understandably. But they forgot that. Let the regime be if its representatives are good, only to vote in favour of my law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. It is said that in Ukraine v. Kuchma, young people have done their utmost to attract public attention and as a result have been imprisoned as common criminals. Although we will, sooner or later, adopt this law today or in a year, they will be recognized by people and recognized by public organizations in the world as people who fought for freedom. I think they're listening to our broadcast, now that they're in prison, in terrible conditions, and they have a spark of hope. I bow to the people who have found courage and demonstrated what is enshrined in the Constitution, which states that if the regime becomes criminal, people have the right to defend themselves in any way, including with weapons in their hands against any criminal regime, and this is a guarantee that the people of Ukraine will be free and live with dignity. People have to understand that in Parliament we support those who are not afraid of being detained for what, for whatever reason, we do not know, to drop drugs, weapons or anything else. Today, it is quite clear that they have expressed their views that we can agree on or disagree with, but expressed it actively and meant us, and our children, and our grandchildren, and the people of Ukraine, and the future people of this people. I would like to draw further attention to the fact that there are two laws that have been passed in the second law. I don't think it's very good if the faction or the representative of the faction who's passing the law after me doesn't vote for my law and for its own. 'Cause it's not gonna be great. I believe that both laws have the right to the future. But my law is more radical. Vote for your children. By the way, I haven't been able to introduce myself, Chernovetski, Our Ukraine, the Christian Liberal Party. And whoever listens to us, be sure that the Ukrainian Parliament will protect those who defend your rights sooner or later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u122	Dear National Deputies! Now let's listen to Andrew School and determine by vote. Because the longer you talk, the less chance you have of making a decision, the fewer MPs in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But we still need to listen to the committee’s decision. Because it's a profile committee that needs to be said. I'm going to try very hard to say about the essence of the law. First, I'll start with what the previous reporter, he's a little bit out of the question. All political prisoners have been at large for over a year and a half, so they listen not in prison, but here, next door, one of them is even in parliament, so it's not about getting someone out of jail right now. It is said that the case was really political and, like it or not, the ordering political matter was, it was embodied in the past regime, and we can wait for the judgment of the Hague Court, it will be positive, we can, without waiting to make a decision here in the walls of Parliament. And I think that there's been a lot of political repression in previous rule in relation to different political forces, and I would like this to be a teaching to all those who will ever try to use the Criminal Code for political calculation. Because when they talk about this particular matter that the previous speaker spoke about, the difference between these bills is that it's a narrow bill, and mine is an extended one that covers practically the period of time from 2001 to 200. from 98 to 2004. This is a broader bill, I think, which is why I propose to support it. But when we're talking about. What political repression is by means of the Criminal Code when articles are used that are absolutely unbound to even the crime that is being incriminated, that has been observed in all European institutions and in all international social organizations. So I encourage you to support this bill, because, you know, it's kind of unethical: we've changed power, but we haven't changed attitudes, we've changed moral criteria, but we haven't changed attitudes towards those people who have experienced repression, from the previous authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u124	Rephat Chubarov, committee, please position the committee. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill provides for the restoration of violations of the rights of persons who have been persecuted by the authorities between 1995 and 2004 and the application of the Ukrainian law on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine in part of compensation and aid. A large number of citizens - in their main mass - are young people - have been drawn to administrative and criminal responsibility for the protests that took place throughout Ukraine. The authorities then tried to suppress any expression of freedom of thought and freedom of meeting. These people went out on the street to defend their rights to freedom of speech and belief, to defend their constitutional rights, peaceful, unarmed. Instead, they were subjected to forceful methods that caused clashes, beatings, and then arrests of shareholders. I am talking about the events that took place in Kiev on 9 March 2001, also about the "Resurrection, Ukraine!" action in 2002 that took place in all regions of Ukraine and other protests against illegal acts of power in various regions of Ukraine. Now is the time to honor and respect these patriots, who, without fear of reprisals, actively and loyally defended their constitutional rights. The bill under discussion is aimed at protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, a matter that I believe should be fundamental in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, especially on the electoral day. The consideration and adoption of the above-mentioned bill will be a testimony to the great attention of the legislative body to solving the social problems of the citizens affected by the political repression of 1995-2004. The committee, appreciating both bills, approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept as a basis and as a whole the draft Ukrainian law on the restoration of the rights of persons who have experienced political repression submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Schlem. Committee members, in their majority, stressed that people who engaged in political persecution and were repressed for political reasons should be rehabilitated. In view of the above, please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a vote on the basis and generally as a bill of law, registration number 7813. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm based on 7813. Please vote. [[18:01:45]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's vote in general. What? Let's make one amendment and vote. Let's vote for consensus. Please, the microphone. Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We certainly respect everything that is going on in Ukraine. And maybe it's time for us to finally get over the political preferences and look at what's going on in Ukraine, just in terms of, in terms of, perhaps, the historical process. I ask that we be honest and honest with each other, and we support this law. Let us write about the polytoxins that took place between 2001 and 2005. It's going to be true, it's going to be honest. Please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u128	Dear National Deputies! Let's do it this way, because now there's going to be a denial, we're not going to adopt any laws at all. Don't get carried away, we don't take the law. Please. If there's any objection, we won't accept it, let's write 2001 and then let's vote there, 2005. Then there is all that is left on the foundation, dear colleagues. If you don't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't, don't. Please, Rephat Chubarov, head of the committee. Then there'll be a denial, but I can't put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u129	Dear colleagues! I am personally addressing the author of this last proposal. It's still, you know, conceptually we've been looking at human rights-related events at a time when both thought and freedom of meeting were suffocating. It's conceptual. What you're talking about is a number of other bills, let's take them when we're looking at them. I'm asking you to put this bill in general right now. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u130	I, the honourable national MPs, will not put to the vote if there is a warning. Let's make a deal like this. What are some other considerations? School, please. Then Cherniewsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u131	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. I wanted to point out that the bill, my own bill, it's broad enough, it has an uncompressed, broad enough framework. So once again, we can, of course. Involved here and 2005, 2006 and all the years that followed. But I want to go to all the factions and say that in this situation when we adopt this bill, it will be a lesson for all those who want to use the Criminal Code for political repression. And so let me stress, no matter how many years we've been writing here, we can't predict everyone there for 2020. It'll just change the bill itself. So I urge, I urge all factions to just support. If not to vote, at least not to protest that the bill should be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u133	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich. Leonid Czernovetskie. I made a mistake about the Christian Liberal Party because I am sitting within our Ukraine faction. I want to tell you, Nestor Ivanovich, you will vote for this, in nine years in Parliament, I did not vote for any person to be roasted under different regimes in prison. Starting with each other and ending with others. Because it's actually a problem when we were dealt with. Now we're talking about simple things. People listen to us. We have already passed the law, and now I am approached by a respected, former, one of the best foreign ministers of Udovenko and says that there is such a law. You can be calm. We're just not proving what he wants today. before the Hague Court. Why do we need him? 19 people are listening to us, they're sitting in jail today for us to be free. Is that normal? So vote, I beg you. And you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u134	Thank you. Carmazine, Mironenko. And your name was, yes. Carmazine. Let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have two texts of the bill. One text of Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u136	We already have one text of the bill because we accepted one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u137	I'm sorry. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you haven't had a discussion, let's do anything, even though you can do something about the visibility of democracy. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for a moment, even if you see democracy for a moment. That's it. The school's bill is three ways above the law. Can't you see that? What do you want to accept? Do I order you to consider yourself rehabilitated? How will you do it? You're entering a conflict with the Constitution. What better way to do this to people? Do you understand? Now look what the school is offering. The article was the first to recognize the rehabilitated people who were drawn to the administrative responsibility of participating in the “Ukraine Without Couchma” protest, “Resurrection, Ukraine”, and the election-related actions. Article 2, the question of belonging and so forth in court. Article 3, apply the law on rehabilitation to persons. Article 4, the Cabin to decide. Article 5, from the time of publication. This is similar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, let's step down from the fact that the Supreme Council of the two alternative bills passed Bill 7813. Others she can't look at. Mironenko, please. In the second we cannot vote when we have voted in favour of one, how can we vote in favour of the other?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u139	Mironenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I agree that, from the Scientific and Expert Office, this bill does not even conform to the concept of the law, but more to the decision. That's the first one. At the same time, we are not considering serious documents, in particular, I very much ask you for the second day on the agenda is for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making process, but it is not the time. Please make two draft decrees very important for the morning. The first 8432 is a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to expedite the conclusion of agreements between Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, and the second 8431 draft decision on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the need for a first-line inter-State agreement that relates to the position of Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, we are yelling for gas, let us decide on specific ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u140	Oh, my God, that was a name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I voted in favour of the Attorney General’s resignation only in due time because I thought his actions were illegal. What is more, when Mikhailo Brodsky was in prison, I was not yet a national MP, I was not touched, but I signed with entrepreneurs, I turned to Kuchma for his release. When these poor people went to prison, I signed all the papers just to soften their fate. So I have the right today to ask everyone to unify these historical periods, because I question what happened in accordance with your law. But you have the right to see it. But we know exactly that in 2005, as tens of thousands of people were released just because they weren't wearing a certain color, I don't want to say that I don't want to offend anyone right now, which is what. I'm asking you, let's write it down, and in 2005, we're going to put our efforts together and show that at least in terms of dealing with those who are suffering from polio, we have the only thought. I believe that
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u142	Dear colleagues, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich! Unfortunately, we're not going to be able to add anything to the body of this law, because one minute, I'm asking you, give me a moment. Dear colleagues, take the text before you. First, read it, and there you will see that in the text of the law, in the incriminating and operative part, this is, more specifically, not the law, it can be, it's only about 19 people. We have to take it and rewrite it. Once again, dear colleagues, we have adopted a bill as the basis. Since this is an alternative, we cannot consider the next bill. That's the first logic. The second logical conclusion. It's only about 19 people. Then this law should be redrafted into a decree, if the Supreme Council agrees, to add the third paragraph: “Considering that it is necessary to apply such a right to persons who suffered appropriate persecution in 2005. ” Then there'll be some logic. It's as absurd as you'd suggest. We just voted as the basis. What? Then if you agree with this proposal to add a third point and formulate this third point. Otherwise, there will be no decision. Because then we have to wait for it. Two more weeks. Is there no warning to do so? So, in general, vote, but make up the third paragraph that Nestor said, because. If they deny it, then we can't vote, do you understand that or not? Please make an offer. Because this was really the best law in school. But have you decided what I can do? Shufry microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u143	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, then I have such a compromise offer. There was Andrew School's bill. Let's do that part that fits the point of my proposal, put it into the body of the law, swap 2004 for 2005, and we're going to vote on this law in general. We'll support that offer. And then we won't wait two weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I have made a proposal. To ensure that we have no objection in the session room to what we have voted in general as provided for in the Rules, it is proposed to add the third paragraph, which states that “consider it necessary to apply the right of rehabilitation to persons who have experienced political persecution in 2005” will then be logical. Well, dear colleagues, then I think in this way: that the law was adopted as a basis -- and that's all. What will you explain to me? What? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u145	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Don't just give in to provocation. What Nestor Ivanovich said makes sense, because we already have a law that everyone who is illegally in prison "for political persecution" should be released. But we now issue the first 19 persons by this law, and then what they will offer for God’s sake! But support this law, whatever configuration it is. Because otherwise, we're going to be provoked, these people are sitting, they've already felt freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u146	That's enough. We don't vote anymore. All right, turn off the mic. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you again. We voted, we made the decision as a basis. We can vote on it as a whole, provided that no one objects. There is a denial, and there was such a proposal to extend this decision politically for 2005. Well, then we can't put him to the vote in general -- do you understand that or not?Oh, my God! I want to say again in Ukrainian: you obviously don't understand that if one person denies the adoption of the law as a whole, we have to consider it in two weeks. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-22-m1.u147	What are you talking about? Honorable National Deputies, who are in charge of voting on the Law as a whole with the amendment proposed? 7313, please. 7813, please vote. [[18:15:12]] For-100 Thus, honourable national MPs, such an offer took 100 votes. Thus, the law is adopted as a basis, after additions and suggestions have been made, a footnote that has been finalized will be considered in the second reading. All of it. Honorable National Deputies, Announcements: On the basis of article 13 of the Law of Ukraine and articles. By law. On the basis of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, I inform you of the withdrawal from the Party of Industrialists, entrepreneurs of the Ukraine of Hannah Antony. Dear National Deputies! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares closed. Tomorrow we will continue our meetings at 10 a.m. on Friday.
