ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the Council system. [[10:05:48]] There were 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today, citizens of the Ukraine who practice Islam celebrate one of the major worlds in Islam -- the Kurbamba-Bayram. Let us welcome this festival and wish everyone success and health. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Zubchenko Mikli Mihajlovich, deputy director of the Chief Organizing Authority of the Supreme Council, with whom we keep in touch and work, let's welcome Mikola Mikhailovich and thank you for your conscientious work. Dear National Deputies! Now let me give you some information about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on January 19, 2004. Eight issues of the agenda have been considered, one law has been passed, two bills adopted in the first reading on the basis, four bills rejected, one bill withdrawn in connection with his appeal to the bill. Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputies, I inform Stanislav Kirilovich and Drey Jaroslav Mikhajlovich of the MP faction "Trudova Ukraine" and "The People's Democratic Party", and the Chebotar Yulia Sergijovni of the MP group "Soyuz". Another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 42 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the protocol of the National Assemblys of the Ukrainian People's Deputies of 19 January 2005, I will inform you of the formation of the Democratic Ukraine Deputies Group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 14 Ukrainian national deputies joined the Democratic Ukraine Group. The staff is added, the head of the Democratic Ukraine Deputy Group has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sharov Igor Fedorović. Dear colleagues! As you know, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has accepted. Oh, yeah. Please register, your honor, and I'm all I've said is illegal. Yes! Ladies and gentlemen, please register. And what Adam Ivanovich says is that I wasn't. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies registered in the 419 national deputies’ session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Well, let's do it again if it doesn't work out. Dear colleagues! Today, we have received a copy, not a copy, but a ruling from the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the application of President Yanukovitch Fedorovich for the inaction of the Central Electoral Commission to establish the results of the re-election of the President of Ukraine on 26 December 2004 and the rulings of the CEC on the re-election of 26 December 2004 and the results of the election of the President of Ukraine on 14 January 2005 and the publication of the results of the re-election on 26 December 2004 from the election of the President of Ukraine. The satisfaction of this complaint has been denied. Thus, we have every reason to set a date for the oath of the newly elected President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! You will now be given a draft of the appropriate decision. It is proposed to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this occasion at 12 p.m. on January 23rd. We will need to make appropriate changes to the calendar of our work. Well, such a date is related to the need for appropriate preparatory work. Before that, we will have to take a decision on the satisfaction of Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's application for parliamentary powers. These documents will now be distributed. I'd ask if we could look at them. Is it sold out yet? No, just one decision, the other one on hand. Two will be sold out, then we'll vote. With Boris Ilchi's motives, please. Oil, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u2	Yes, Your Honor, I don't want to keep you. Of course, I tend to be self - magnified, and I love it when my last name is mentioned where to go and where not to go, but I have heard rumors that I have written an anthem that teaches a military orchestra. So I just couldn't write it. But if there's something wrong with it, so that I don't get blamed for plagiarism when I'm an old age. So I haven't written it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! A draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "The legislative provision of modern economic policy in constitutional reform on 18 May 2005" is being announced for consideration. Reporter Demyohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, head. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The scope of problems related to the uncertainty of state economic policy in Ukraine has long reached its critical limit. This situation is complicated and exacerbated, sadly, by the absence of a clearly defined economic policy at the legislative level. I mean, there are no basic laws such as the principles of Ukraine's internal policy, about the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy, about the principles of national interests, about Ukraine's national development strategy. Every year, you and I approve the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we listen to the message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Similarly, every year we try to adopt the Ukrainian National Economic and Social Development Programme Act for the corresponding year. However, all listed programs and documents are short - term, preferably medium - term. So every year we define, conditionally speaking, with the tactical tasks that lie ahead of the country, and the strategic and systematic goals and tasks remain undetermined in fact and in a formal way. Having changed the Constitution, we responded to the challenge of time, tried to change the political and socio-economic system in the country. Methods and means of economic governance, the activities of the economic system itself at this stage of development need considerable adjustment. We are obliged to identify the following systemic tasks in the field of economic policy: improving public fiscal policy, approving the Tax Code and establishing clear, transparent and binding policies for all economic operators, active and sustained support for the domestic agricultural producer; promoting or completely ignoring such an action mechanism of state support for depressive regions as SEZ and TPR, the entry into WTO and Ukraine's Euro-integration aspirations in line with the perspectives of the EPP, a hard state protectionist policy. I just called a little bit of the point. In view of the above, the authors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation propose to hold parliamentary hearings on May 18 on the theme “The legal provision of modern economic policy in conditions of constitutional reform”. The committee unanimously supported the draft decision. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on: Legislative provision of modern economic policy under constitutional reform. [[May 18, 2005]] Registration number 6499. Please vote. [[10:15:41]] For 276 Decision taken. A draft regulation on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" was announced for consideration in March 2005. [[on the state of the art and prospects of the insurance market in Ukraine]] Reporter. Now, one minute. I know what you mean. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please microphone. I'm out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. My fellow Members, I have great respect for the issues that are proposed for consideration on Government Day and the proposal made by the people's deputies is not an exception. But I would like to ask the honourable national MPs to remember that no further than last week, you and I, on March of the month, approved the day-to-day Government Day on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War 41-45 years. So, honourable colleagues, in the year of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory, in the year that was announced for our initiative with you, the Year of Veterans of Ukraine, to add something else to this issue will be extremely unimportant. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to consider this question, but to assign it for another month for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, you have listened to the reasoning from the committee's head. Indeed, we voted and made the right decision, and it will not be entirely logical when we discuss two issues on that day. However, there is a draft decision. Please, Mikhailo Markovich Dobkin, as the author of the project. None. From the committee, please, Tsushko, the first deputy head of the committee. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u8	Tzusko, Socialist faction, Committee on Finance. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I fully support my colleague Cibenko. Our committee did not consider the draft regulation, but we are the lead committee, and here our functions cross with the Committee of Tsibenko. We have a request to move the matter forward, perhaps we should consider, but first through the committee, to consider conceptually. And we're supported by a government in the face of the Gocomisisia on Financial Services.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! There is no objection to how we will postpone consideration so that the committee can discuss the matter, make the appropriate decision? You don't? Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Ordinance amending the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council on the fourth call is announced for consideration. We discussed this issue, fellow dignitaries, at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and there was full support. Valentin Grigorovich, there is a need.? Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The head of the Supreme Council informed at the previous meeting, I mean, the issue of making changes to the calendar plan for the next seventh session about the proposed changes. Regrettably, the committee's draft ruling, which the Head of the Supreme Council is introducing to Parliament today, was not considered, since the draft came at 18 o'clock yesterday, that is, after the meeting of the committee. But I will recall once again what the draft decrees are proposing to amend the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council, which will begin its work, as you remember on the first Tuesday of February, that is, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, February 1st on Tuesday, i.e. it is envisaged to make such changes for the week from February 14 to 18, to be held as work in committees, factions and groups. Weeks from 21 to 24 June to hold plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, July 8 to announce the closing time of the 7th session of the Supreme Council, and the week from 11 to 15 July to organize as the work of the National Deputies in the Committees of Deputies and Groups. These are the proposals for changes to the calendar plan for the 7th session of the Supreme Council. Let me be clear, I think we can support this draft decision made by the Head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u11	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, distinguished colleagues, a very important moment. Here we have the calendar of the next session. In view of our extra work, we work this plenary week, it is suggested that in February we worked in plenary mode from 1 to 4. And then from 7 to 28, they worked on committees, MPs and factions to work on relevant bills for their consideration in the Supreme Council. In addition, it is suggested that in July we were scheduled to hold a plenary meeting from July 12th to July 15th. Move this plenary session to July 27th, 1st, and so we will have the opportunity to close the session on July 8th and work for a week directly in the districts to inform the deputies about the work done during the 7th session. With this in mind, I am voting on a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the 7th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. [[Registration number 6520]] Please vote. [[10:22:38]] For 370. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka. Is there a quality of the question in this regard? Project Regulation 6526. This procedure must be followed before the new President is sworn in because he cannot have a representative mandate. Victor Andriyovich’s statement is appropriate. Do you mind if I put a draft ruling to the vote? I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich. [[Registration number 6526]] Please vote. [[10:23:43]] For 370. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to read the next draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call and the date of the ceremony on the taking of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. Amendments to the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 17 June 2004, as amended by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations of 3 and 4 December 2004 and of 13 January 2005 on Parliament's work in January 2005, by establishing the closure of the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 January 2005 and by predicting on 21 January, i.e. on Friday, the morning plenary session of 22 January, i.e. on Saturday, committee work, factions and groups. January 23, Sunday, the morning plenary meeting at 12 p.m. and the closing of the session. The other one. In accordance with article 104 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "The Order of the Meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" is dedicated to the formation of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine since 14 December 2004, to be held on 23 January 2005 at 12 o'clock in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. No warning? Put this order to the vote. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar plan for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is submitted to the vote and on the date of the convening of the ceremony, the commitment to the oath of the newly elected President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:26:06]] For 309 The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? "Our Ukraine," I read "for" to 96, the communists to 1. Ukraine - 20. People's Agrarian, 28. SDPU(o) - 24. Ukraine's only 17. C.O.P. - 20. Block Timoshenko - 19. The Union is 17. Labor of Ukraine and NDP 13. Deminicatives are 12. Center - 13. Postfaction is 29. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the withdrawal of some Ukrainian legislative acts relating to social policy and work is under consideration. Rapporteur - First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Viacheslav Kirilenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u12	Victor Yushchenka's Block, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are proposing a draft of a standard enough decision for us to withdraw from the Supreme Council's consideration of 20 bills and draft regulations that have lost their relevance over time. The committee considered this issue on January 12, quite recently, and unanimously decided to propose this determination to support the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Are there any warnings against the Social Policy and Labour Committee's proposal? Samofal, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u14	Now! Now! Dear colleagues! Dear reporter! I would like to clarify why the Committee today considers it necessary to withdraw the draft regulation. So it's a draft law on social policy and work. Is that, like, not relevant today? Even so, you have been offering to care for Ukrainian citizens all the time today, everything else. This is one of the key issues to consider. Would you please explain that these are draft laws that need to be adopted for social protection of the population?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u15	Thank you for asking. This is not so, because all of these bills were considered on the committee, some of them are rejected, and some by dates, terms and figures are simply impossible to implement and need a new introduction. With regard to issues of social standards, the figures in these bills that are proposed to be rejected. require a side view of the magnification and a new introduction to the next session. The Supreme Council. Therefore, the Committee sent proposals to all MP factions and groups and committees in the official order to submit the necessary bills for consideration by the next session of the Supreme Council. Of the bills proposed to be withdrawn, none are such that it needs urgent consideration from a social point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of draft legislation on social policy and labour, registration number 6494, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:29:44]] For 288 Decision taken. A draft decision on the withdrawal of certain bills is being tabled. Head of the Committee on Budgetary Policy. Well, there's no powder for any known reason. Sophia Pavlovna, please. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! We propose to adopt a decision on the withdrawal of individual bills in the light of the Constitution of Ukraine and the budget code that the State budget is approved only on an annual basis, i.e. from 1 January to 31 December 2004 and the end of the budget period, the Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 12 January considered the following bills and approved the decision on the appropriateness of withdrawing them from the Supreme Council as those who have lost their relevance. I'd like to call them for a stenographer so that we can record them. Draft Laws amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget for 2004, Registration Nos. 5678, 5715, 6011, 6070, 6075, 6078, 6079, 6086, 6146, 6146-1, 6188, 6249, 6265, 6265-1, Bills 6274, 76. 6302, 6322, 6346, 7939. And also draft laws on the specificities of spending from the State budget and the local budgets of Ukraine before the adoption of the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget, registration number 6438 and 6438-1. As well as draft regulations related to the implementation of the State Budget under registration number 6076 and 6385.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft decree on the withdrawal of certain bills, registration number 6505, is under consideration. Please vote. [[10:32:23]] For 317 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the withdrawal of certain Ukrainian legislative acts relating to agrarian issues is being announced for consideration. Oleg Yukhnovsky, Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council, is submitting for consideration a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of draft legislation on agrarian issues. Taking into account that the legal norms of the aforementioned draft regulations, the draft legislative acts of Ukraine are now regulated by other legislative acts and have become obsolete, the committee proposes the proposed draft decree to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u21	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Your Honor, I don't object to removing the proposed list of issues from the agrarian issues, but I do have a question for you, because to some extent it relates to the decision to recognize the Herson area as such. and recognition of it as having suffered from a natural disaster -- 2003 -- which was considered in Parliament and, unfortunately, because of a team of the former government, was not accepted. In this regard, I would like to ask. Once the problem has been solved, and is already disturbed by other colleagues, my colleagues, whether there is information on your profiling committee: to what extent the assistance was provided in 2003. Because, indeed, Hersonianism suffered at that time. If there is no such information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleague, as you recall, we considered your draft decision to provide financial assistance to the Herson region in connection with natural disasters, the committee, the agricultural policy and land relations committee supported this draft decision. He also appealed to the government to provide such assistance. I also want to remind you that we have twice adopted amendments to the State Budget Act, where we have taken these issues into account. Since the natural disaster, you remember, reached not only the Herson region but also the vast part of the whole of Ukraine, in addition to controlling the use of these funds, which were additionally provided for in the State Budget project, the committee scheduled an expanded meeting in February to monitor the use of State budget funds in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, are there any warnings against this decision? The draft decree? None. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption in general on the withdrawal of draft legislation on agrarian issues is put to the vote. Registration number 6482. Please vote. [[10:36:06]] For 307 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the withdrawal of drafts of certain legislative acts amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft Criminal Procedure Code is being announced for consideration. Bandurka Alexander Markovich, please, from the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u24	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement is proposing to withdraw 13 bills from the Committee's work relating to the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft. The point is that after the first reading, the project was sent to a number of international law enforcement and law enforcement organizations, and we got the answers. The most fundamental work of the project came from the Venice Commission. This is 200 pages of English text that is now being processed by specialists and national deputies as legislators. The changes that were proposed are part of the 13 bills seven, fully accounted for four, are three that have lost their relevance. I can call the bill numbers and their names and authors. You have a list of draft draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure that is being removed in connection with the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure in the first reading is in your hands. The committee's request to support it. On the committee, this proposal is accepted unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? None. The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain draft laws amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in connection with the preparation for the second reading of the draft Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 5440]] Please vote. [[10:38:30.]] For 279 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the withdrawal of certain draft laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! As part of the reform of pension insurance, we have adopted a number of basic laws and, above all, the Act on State-owned Pension Cooking. That is, we have moved on to pension insurance today, and that is why we have lost our relevance to the laws that dealt with pension insurance, which is an old law that does not exist at this time. In addition, there are a number of proposals that devolve existing legislation. On this basis, the Committee, by carefully working out all the components, unanimously proposes that these bills be withdrawn because they are largely non-legislative and, accordingly, will only be harmful, and the main thing is that we will simply waste time with you because the amended legislation just makes no sense, as it is said, to consider and approve. Once again, our Committee, having considered all these proposals, unanimously proposes that these issues be removed from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, no warning? None. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain draft laws of Ukraine, registration number 5653, is put to the vote, please. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[10:40:13]] For 283 Decision taken. A draft decision on the 1000th anniversary, the 1000th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Belza Lviv district, the reporter Peter Olijnik, from the Anatoly Matvienko Committee, or who will report from the Committee? Well, if there's no warning, we'll vote now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow nationals, this year marks the 1000th anniversary of the city of Belize. It was, and was, more faithfully, the pride of the Kyiv movement on the western borders. The city of Belize in the district of Lviv has a remarkable history. In view of this event, and bearing in mind that it does not have sufficient financial resources to hold historical monuments in proper condition, the Supreme Council’s decision on the significance of the millennium of the city of Belize is proposed. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u29	Yes, is there a need to report from the Committee? None. Is there no objection to putting the draft decision to the vote? I can't see. The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 1000th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Belza Lviv, registration number 6519, is put to the vote. For adoption as a whole, as a decree, please vote. [[10:42:03]] For 233 I'll take the order. A draft decree on the restoration of the village of Lukovtsi in the region of Chernivetsek of the former appointment is under consideration. Who will report from the committee? Dear colleagues, here are the appropriate decisions of the committee, there are necessary references. What is it? The point is to refer to the village of Lukovitsa in the region of Cherniewec, a former name, the village of Lukavtsi. No warning? I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the restoration of the village of Lukovci in the region of Cherniewec of the former appointment. [[Registration number 6522]] Please vote. [[10:43:13]] For 291 Decision taken. A draft decree on the renaming of the village of Ušice in the district of Žitomir district is being announced for consideration. What respectable colleagues are talking about. To rename the village of Ušice of Korosten district of Žitomir district to the village of Nova Ušica, that is, to restore historical justice. No warning? I'm voting on a draft decree to rename the village of Usice of Korosten district of Žitomir district. [[Registration number 6523]] Please vote. [[10:44:04]] For 313 Decision taken. Let's go to second reading. Announcing the project. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Fuel Energy and Nuclear Policy, requests that the draft bill be postponed in view of the need to work together with the Committee on Legal Policy. No warning? Then we'll carry it. A draft law amending article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the alienation of a child’s property is under consideration. From the Musiak committee, Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please. Vasil Vasilovich, please, is this bill that we're carrying or what? Fellow dignitaries, the committee requests that the review be carried out in connection with comments made by individual national deputies, as well as comments received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. No warning? Thank you. Yes, a draft law amending the State Service Act on Assignment of Ranks is being considered. Reporter - First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Viacheslav Kirilenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u30	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Victor Yushchenka Block, Ukrainian People’s Party Ladies and gentlemen, your second reading is the draft amending article 26 of the State Service Act. It refers to virtually one rule that stipulates that the ranks of government officials corresponding to the second category are given by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This practice is already prescribed by other laws, such as the National Bank. In the first reading, the bill was supported by the MP, and in the second reading, five amendments were made to the table. They're all accounted for, and there's no reference to the bill. The committee considered this issue on January 12th of this year at its meeting and unanimously asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt this law in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the proposals for second reading are all taken into account. We have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, in general, a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service for Assignment of Ranks. Registration number is 2375. Please vote. [[10:47:32]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Yes, a committee proposal. Dear colleagues! Now, one minute! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to focus. All the suggestions made for second reading are accepted! Counted! Why do we not make decisions? I'm voting for a return to the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service for Assignment. Vote please! Vote please, Your Honor! We got off to such a good start, let's move on. [[10:48:14]] For 328 We're back! I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and a whole bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service for Assignment of Ranks. Please vote. [[10:48:42]] For 327 The law is passed. A draft law on the protection of citizens'constitutional rights to land is being announced for consideration. [[on the cost of producing documents]] Reporter Roman Tkac, member of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u32	Roman Tkac, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, MPs! The committee is introducing a second reading of the draft Act on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Land on the Value of Production of Documents. Last year, at our first reading session, it was adopted, and this year in January, the committee reviewed the bill for a second time, taking into account the comments and suggestions that were there. One proposal was made, and it was taken into account in an editorial way. We have considered this proposal on the committee and ask you to accept it in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u33	No warning? Pomorenko Georgie, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u34	Roman Volodymyrovich! Polymarenko, the Communist faction, so tell me, the President has decreed 85 fines for the cost of producing documents. What is stipulated by your bill, the amount that is foreseen?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u35	It's predicted. The president has determined the cost of 85 dollars for the production of documentation. But in addition, the Order of the State Commission introduced a registration. And the registration depended on the shape of the area. And it turns out in practice, the cost of these jobs was about 85 to 200 dollars. We limit this bill to the 85th anniversary and 150th to all the land-use jobs that are made by the State. Everyone, including the registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] 85 and 150. 85 for those who receive pies and 150 for other species.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u36	Yes, there are no warnings from others? Now, one minute, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, and then from the Cabinet of Ministers, and we will vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! You can see in front of you a note by the General Legal Authority, which warns that in one case, there are two different cases of production of documents that show ownership of land. It's either the property pie or the other one that's passed free of charge under article 121 of the Ukrainian Earth Code. And they warn that the establishment of such a standard does not comply with the requirements of articles 6, 19 and 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine and contravene article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. Don't you think it's possible for you to factor in part two, it's exactly in line with this law, it's a normal secured people who can pay a little bit more. And maybe that way we can add to the budget, there's going to be a hole right now. It's painted about 17 billion years later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u38	Yuri Anatolyevich, I understand the point of your observation. We had these options discussed on the committee. But when we went to those organizations that produce land-based documentation, on average, let's say that it wasn't a waste, the cost of producing one government act was, well, last year, at least on October about 35-40. And when we're talking about 85 and 150 today, I think it's enough for these organizations to work hard. As far as there's going to be a hole in the budget, well, these jobs are funded by citizens. So I don't know why there's going to be a hole in the budget. The point is that citizens will finance these jobs. It is therefore not directly linked to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u39	From the Cabinet of Ministers Garbus Mikola Jurkovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! With regard to the standards of the bill, it should be noted that the rules in the article are already practically regulated by valid normative documents today, and prices are virtually not different, a.s. repeats these norms. Regarding the third article, I would like to note that it is in conflict with the Law today and the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction in part of the subcredit, as well as additional budgetary burden. That's why we think there's no point in adopting this bill in case. It should be further developed in a second rereading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, there is a committee proposal. It's not an evening of answers and questions! If you have any written, please, Bulba, for reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u42	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. So we say all the time that peasants have to fill in the budget and so on. Finally, there were promises that the whole earth would be passed on and all the documentation would be executed at the expense of the state. It can't be that some set 85 dollars, others set 150, and the Statecomm determines its own price for documentation. Socialists are willing, at the expense of the village, not to fill the budget in the way it is now. For them to receive land and documentation free of charge for the right to rule the earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft Law on the Protection of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens to the Earth on second reading and generally as a law. [[on the cost of producing documents]] This proposal is based on a vote. Registration number 5391, please vote. [[10:55:26]] For 307 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the grounds and order of release of persons from custody]] [[second reading]] Marcus Maria Andriyovna, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u44	Marcus, the Communist faction. The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement considered a table of amendments to the draft Ukrainian Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. [[on the grounds and order of release of persons from custody]] The bill aims to harmonize the provisions of article 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code and article 20 of the Law on previous imprisonment with the provisions of articles 22 and 29 of the Constitution on the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms. Since the current version of article 165 of the Ukrainian CPC and article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison Prisons stipulates that a person's release from custody should close the closing of the case, if the term is not continued in the order established by law and in other cases, it is only by decision of the judge or the court. The implementation of these billing rules in practice results in a person whose need to be held in custody has generally been dropped for 10 or more days, usually in connection with appropriate court proceedings. Although it is quite obvious that when a person is released from custody, there is no restriction on his constitutional rights, and in such cases, there is no need for judicial control over the activities of the investigating authorities. Moreover, it objectively leads to gross violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens as a result of their unlawful detention in pretrial detention facilities beyond the time limits provided for by valid legislation. With a view to removing the identified inadequacies that create legislative preconditions for violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, the draft law proposes to supplement article 165 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code with a new part three, and part two of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to be published in a new edition. In view of the fact that the bill of comments and suggestions made by the legal entities of the legislative initiative were not available, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of a second reading review of the draft to accept it as a whole as a law. Dear colleagues! Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I'm going to put the vote to the committee's first proposal, but the prose is going to draw attention to the conclusion of the General Legal Department, which indicates that we're interfering with the Constitution here. We're in a conflict. With that in mind, I'd like you to go out on a decision-making basis, because our lawyers are offering to re-read it. But given the committee's proposal, I'm voting on the first proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the grounds and order of release of persons from prison is worth it. [[Registration number 4309-D]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:59]] For 252 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation is being announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Criminal Enforcement Code. [[Registration number 5049]] Bandurka Alexander Markovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, please. Who will report from the committee? Let's take a look at our respectable colleagues. The proposals that were made here for two proposals were two proposals for a second reading they were all taken into account. There's no warning, is there? Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure, registration number 5049, please vote. [[11:00:16]] For 313 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Law on Mortgage Credit, Consolidated Mortgage Debt and Mortgage Certificates on the maximum size of the loan is being announced for consideration. Terjehin Sergey Anatoliyovich of the Committee on Finance, Banking. Basil Tsushko, please, Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the bill implies changes in the assessment when mortgages are granted, which was limited to 70 per cent. It was that the bill had been tabled by a colleague of Montenegro, and he suggested that the restriction should be lifted. This proposal, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank, has been considered by our Committee. There was only one amendment to the Act by a colleague of Carmazin under the title of the Act, but the Committee postponed that proposal, in principle, it was technical, but experts considered that the name should remain the same. And the Committee proposes to support the Act on second reading and in general. In principle, a technical bill, but for the economy, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u47	Yes. Yuri Anatolyevich, your proposal is rejected. Are you insisting on her? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u48	In honor of Victor Yushchenk's victory, I don't insist on this proposal, but I would ask the committee to listen, because you make names completely unprofessional and then very difficult for people. But in honor of victory, for you today amnesty, I'm taking down my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u49	Yuri Anatolyevich, thank you. I can tell you how in that anecdotes, you'll figure it out, it's Terehin who said that. You two help each other out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Credit, Consolidated Mortgage Debt and Mortgage Certificates. [[about the maximum size of the loan]] Please vote. [[11:02:45]] For 264 The law is passed. The draft Law on Electronic Commerce has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Zushko Vasil Petrovich. And from the committee, Kaputin will be speaking. Such regulations are proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention now to agree? For the report, up to five minutes, answers to questions, three minutes, for the report, three minutes and three minutes, respectively. And the discussion and decision-making here are three minutes, but I think it would take at least a minute 12. Just a minute. The proposal is to postpone the consideration of this bill. We're moving? Is there no objection? It's moving. Now, dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda, here's the whole chapter going "to get into the agenda and make a decision." On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of the Payment of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy. [[on the priority of payment of wages]] I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 6066. Please vote. [[11:04:32]] For 312 Decision taken. From the Cabinet of Ministers. For known reasons, there is no reporter. Dear colleagues, because we're working so fast, we can't get Kabin to catch up with us. So we may ask Vladimir Josephovich Matthew to come from the committee. Who from the committee can report? Come on, then. I'll work for the committee. There is a committee decision, and he has considered and proposes to adopt the draft law on the basis of the appropriate redrafting and second reading. No warning? I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law amending article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. [[on pre-emptiveness and payment of salaries]] Registration number 6066. Please vote. I asked -- they said it wasn't. Here comes the vote. Today, you said you were taking all the warnings. [[11:05:46]] For 284 Decision taken. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 on zero import duty for certain goods. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Registration number 6475. Take down the vote. Please, George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u51	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. I'd like the reporter to tell us what these codes mean. This is about making changes to the budget, to Article 9 of the budget, entering VAT into a number of goods imported from abroad. I see there's a representative from the Cabinet of Ministers. Let him name the entire list, as they said in the film, what it means, except for oil and sugar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u52	Let's, dear fellows, just consider inclusion, then we will. Sulkowski, please. Dear colleagues! It's not a bill discussion, it's an inclusion in the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u53	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There is a proposal that, for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, you see how many regulations and inclusion issues not to go specifically after each inclusion, there is a proposal to vote this out, to include all projects by one vote and then to consider, to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u54	This would be contrary to the Rules, please. Don't push me to break. The point is that, under the Rules, when we adopt the agenda, we vote in a complex manner and, in addition, each issue needs to be voted on separately. Konovaluk, please. Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine. I think it would simplify our work, but we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. When we accepted the 2005 budget, we agreed that we would soon make changes. And we're proposing this procedural issue so that we can really generalize all the proposals and fully prepare those changes to the state budget that will be considered by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget for Ukraine on the zero import duty rate for certain goods. Registration number is 6475. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:48]] For-141 The bill is not included in the agenda. What? Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council didn't support budgeting, so we'll come back later. Wait a minute! Wait a minute! Wait a minute! What? Dusty, please, if you say so, we'd be waiting for you. Yes, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u57	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We really insist that this bill should be included in the agenda of the day session and voted today after lunch. The point is that the Budget Act sets zero import duty rates for certain goods, including those produced in Ukraine, or in the field of payment of these customs congregations. This bill does not in any way warn any Ukrainian producer, and it significantly increases the government budget. We are indeed suggesting that customs congregations should be established solely by the Customs Code, not by the Ukrainian State Budget Act. I'm gonna have to ask that we're done. There's no politics here. So we can all support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u58	Well, let's do it this way. I'll put it back in if I don't. Well, just a minute. Well, to keep it clean, the vote is about getting back into the agenda. This is Bill 6475. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let the MPs determine that, that's all. [[11:10:51]] For 181 Please hold a consultation, then maybe we can go back to the discussion. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 93, Communist faction - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, National Agrarian Party - 1, SDPU - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 1, SPO - 20, Block Timoshenko - 18, "Soyuz" - 16, "Trubic Ukraine and NDP" - 2, "Deminitiates" - 1, "Centre" - 0, "Preflacation - 25. Dear colleagues! We need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. [[on VAT and bond transactions]] There's two projects. Since this is one question, let us immediately vote. Is there no objection? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 6152, 6152-1. Please vote. [[11:12:03]] For 248 Questions are included in the agenda. Let us go to his consideration. Reporters: Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich and Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch Please. Are there any reporters? Basil Tsushko, please. Well, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u59	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In view of the fact that article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2004 provides for the payment of late fiscal debt from the value added tax, which arose on June 1, 2004 and was not compensated on the day of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act of 17 June 2004 amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004 by completing the internal government loan bonds with a period of five years, there is a need to regulate the issue of taxation of the results of transactions with such bonds. According to the Ukrainian Business Taxation Act, VAT amounts that are reimbursed from the budget are not included in the gross income of the taxpayer for the income of the enterprises. The purpose of the bill is to settle the issue of the tax reflection of the payer of transactions in payment of the late budget debt from the added value tax, which is effected by issuing the internal government loan bonds in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of Ukraine of 25. 12.2003 by number 2014. The adoption of this law will enable taxpayers to carry out transactions with domestic government bonds issued in the context of the payment of late fiscal debt from the added value tax under the rules laid down in this Act, which will avoid tax evasion when interpreting the rules of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, is there a question for our colleague? If you have any questions, please sign in. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, please tell us, in this law, we now define a tax mechanism for companies that make VAT bonds. How do you feel about this gang-style way of taking money from businesses and what your committee thinks you should do further in order to bring the economy back to life? Obviously, this law -- of course, I am in favour of accepting it -- is not one of the measures that needs to be taken to stop the State's abuse of VAT payers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I have to tell you that the implementation of the proposed bill, well, first of all, does not affect the reduction in income and requires an increase in the expenditure portion of the State budget. And what you're saying is, the Bandits are solving this business issue, and I'd like to tell you that this is the law. This law does not mean that the issue will be resolved in exactly the way you said it would be, because if you look at the previous law, it will. It's actually going to reduce the revenue for the income tax on enterprises to the State budget in the amount of about 400 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u63	Sergei Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u64	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Honorable Rapporteur! Dear colleagues! What's this all about? That if the Power had a normal way of returning VAT, of course, we would not have broken our minds about how to take these notes into account. Your proposal or your bill, today when discussing the faction, it suits us more because, in fact, we are working with the tin papers, in this case with the papers that were launched today instead of VAT. Teryohin's proposal is a profit that actually hangs on an enterprise, but it's money that's being spent. Therefore, we are in favour of supporting your first-reading version to finalize it, taking into account the comments that are available, so that we can really resolve this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u65	Thank you for your understanding, Sergey Anatolyevich, and would like everyone to treat themselves exactly as the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u66	Rudenko, please, the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u67	Dear reporter! I also probably agree with Mr. Carmazin's point of view that the practice of such bonds, which are actually a corrupt method of beating some of the sums out of entrepreneurs, is probably not going to change anything in the state. It is therefore desirable to negotiate with the future government to change this decision, and perhaps to change it, not as a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, but as such a bill on VAT compensation mechanisms. Because it's still very sad that the Cabinet of Ministers takes the decision first, and then the MPs are already initiating how to get out of it, with dignity from that problem. Your point of view, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u68	Thank you for asking. I think when you ask a question, you answered it yourself, because you're right, this bill will need to be finalized and worked with the new Cabinet of Ministers. I read that the proposal is correct, and we use it in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Tikhovitch. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Now let's move on to the discussion. Cernjak Volodymyr Kirilović joined the performance. Please, George Carmazin then. Ah, there's, uh, excuse Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, the "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Carmazin. Yes, we agreed, dear colleagues, 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u70	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, this Law is small in scope, but it is very important and important. This is due to the fact that the State budget provides for the repayment of the extended budget debt from the value added tax. You know, this is a serious problem for our economy -- debt from VAT. In general, the value added tax is very imperfect, you could say, even a criminal tax on our economy. For normal conditions of a civilized economy, a civilized market, a civilised defect, it works, and in our circumstances it is used as a tool of fraud, unfortunately. Thus, we may have made a mistake in entering it at all. We had to use the sales tax, some other types of similar tax, but with another mechanism of using it, well, we have what we have. There's this tax, there's debt, and the debt problem needs to be solved. The bill defines the mechanism for taxing financial results from transactions carried out by taxpayers with VAT bonds. So it's a specific, very important, important issue of VAT accounting, and it's a tax on VAT bonds. We can conclude, in my opinion, that this legislative initiative is right because the proposed mechanism regulates the possibility of non-compliance with VAT taxation. It settles differences with VAT, which allows for the practical implementation of the standard adopted by article 12 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 — that is, the debt for the previous year, which is intended to pay off the long-term budget debt from the value added tax. So we're doing our own decision now, we're predicting repayment of debt from VAT, and now we're proposing a specific mechanism to do so. That is why we have every reason to support the bill. In view of the fact that article 12 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act provides for repayment of debt and is not compensated on the day of entry into force of the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u71	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, prepare Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u72	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you know what was done with the tax return on the added value. On the one hand, abuse is paid by these bribes. For the air that is being exported. On the other hand, those who actually made that tax at the added cost would now have their hands out, especially during the election campaign, forced businesses to count the money at a certain cost. And that's all for the DA's office, for the Security Service, because the huge costs are off in the form that you're still not going to get the VAT back, give it to the VAT, it's going to go to the electoral campaign. And for some reason, I've never heard of any criminal record of such a crime, no security service, no police, no D.A.'s office. The two bills that are being tabled today, 6152 and 6152, are various bills, as can be seen. Thus, the Puzakov People's MP's Bill allows taxpayers to operate on domestic government bonds issued on the basis of the repayment of late debt on the value added tax, under certain rules, which will avoid tax co-operation when interpreting the rules of the corporate tax law. And I'd say positive suggestions are made by my colleague Puzakov. It also amends article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation, which adds paragraphs 22, 26 to some novelties. First of all, it's not included in gross revenue. The revenue that comes from selling to other people, i.e. the businesses that were being driven by these VATes, the bonds, I'm consciously using that word, not entirely scientific, will be much easier. Sadly, no colleagues, Terhochina, suggested. I think he'll report his bill, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if he comes. He suggests that the gross cost of the reporting period include the nominal value of VAT received during the reporting period. I propose in the first reading that we adopt these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u73	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Then Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, the Communist faction, please. After that, Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u74	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we've been on the faction before, and today we've had a lively discussion about all the legislative innovation that our colleague, our friend from Kirovogrady, Vladimir Tikhovitch Puzakov, has made. And I feel this way about the discussion that we're having in the session room right now, and this money is perfectly right, and it's meant to at least partially regulate the tax settlement mechanism of financial transactions to pay off VAT bonds. And that will allow for the timely return of some 400 million dollars. The proposal is correct and should be supported, and I'm not only expressing my personal opinion and point of view, but the point of view of our faction, we're going to vote for this proposal. But what I want to say is this: one of my colleagues in this bill said these words about VAT: "Under the conditions of civilised authority, everything would be okay, that is, everything would be fine and everything would be fine, and there were no problems that we know about you in Ukraine." But in modern power, it's a common fraud. And whether there are certain guarantees that the power that is going to change will not do for its own benefit and for the benefit of its oligarchs and its surroundings, just as it has done for the authorities that have already gone. And I want you to confirm that it will consistently do the same, to provide only two information from the United Nations report on mankind’s development in 2003. Here is the report: One percent of the world’s richest people put as much money in their pockets as 57 percent of the world’s population. It's not our Ukrainian problem, it's a global problem. And another witness. One and one tenth billion people try to survive on incomes of less than one dollar a day. I mean, that pension of 14 million pensioners, 160 dollars, has now increased, but people with income like our pensioners, even with increased pensions, today in the world of 2.8 billion people. Conclusion: This.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u75	Victor. Sergey Teryohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u76	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! For a very short time, I'd like to tell you the difference between the two bills. The first bill, which goes under number 6152 under my authorship and the other bill is a fraction of one, authorship by Mr. Puzakov, more faithfully speaking, is the authorship of the DPA of Ukraine, which was submitted by Mr. Puzakov. And the difference is, if my bill allows the gross cost of an enterprise to include this nominal cost of these bills, which they gave to our businesses outside of their will and to account for gross revenues only when these bills are running out, that's five years from now, if you remember. So Mr. Puzakov's bill does not allow the gross cost of these nominal bills to be applied immediately. And we have to wait five years for them to be repaid and the company to increase its circulation costs. And there's this interesting situation, by the way, the Puzakova bill is completely consistent with the explanation signed by Mr. Kopilov on behalf of the DPA, and there's an interesting situation: at first we took an unreturnable VAT into the company, said we'd give it up in five years, and then we don't even allow these companies to increase the gross cost of this violent purchase of Quasi paper. And it turns out that businesses suffer twice from not getting VAT back from the budget on time, and from not increasing the gross cost. So I would like to draw your attention to the decision of our committee. Our committee decided to adopt Bill 6152 as a basis, and to second read the standards that are useful and positive for Mr. Puzakov's bill, to attach and issue to you at the beginning of February for final work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u77	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. [[on VAT Bond Transactions]] Registration number 6152. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:57]] For-78 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Business Income Taxation, registration number 6152-1. [[on VAT Bond Transactions]] Please vote. [[11:33:28]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Maybe we should send the second one to read again. I'm betting on a vote on re-reading the bill. Both of you? Let's get both of these bills re-reading. Please vote. [[11:34:07]] For 247 The decision is made, the bills are sent for re-reading. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to make a proposal to this chapter that we are currently considering. With the adoption of the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005, in particular article 39, the size of pensions for military personnel who had retired earlier has actually been reduced. As a result, a problem arose. We have two bills, and yesterday literally two committees, at least by the Defence Committee, National Security Committee and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, were considered. I don't know if I've considered this bill as a base committee -- a budget committee -- but the problem is extremely acute. Adam Ivanovich, I very much ask that the problem deserves to be considered at least this afternoon, or tomorrow, if we are not ready to consider it today, because the problem is, well, at least hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian pensioners. I ask you very much for such an assignment, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the problem is known, it's really sharp, let's do it this way. It's good that the two committees have considered it, but, unfortunately, they're not very good at it. I mean, you get in touch, I'm asking the budget committee to come back to this problem. You will be ready today, today no, let us prepare this matter for tomorrow, but be sure to contact the budget committee, for this is its direct duty. There is a question of the draft Law on the rates of export duty on iron and steel raw materials. Bill number 6396. We need to get it into the daytime. Yes, please, Matthew's argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u80	55th Precinct, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to get my position straight, answer the questions. who say it's a lobbyist bill, and it's supposed to reflect the interests of only some industrial enterprises. The question is much broader and completely different. The question is, we're going to cross that border one day and we're going to start working for the state or we're going to continue to enrich the 3-4 clans in the country. As a result of the privatization of Ukrupprom, unfortunately this was the case, but when we privatized, we did not hear from the rostrum, asking questions, how did the original section happen, and those owners who had monopolized its privatization received 25, 26, 27 per cent of the shares from enterprises not subject to the privatization process? What did the State receive when they came into their hands? After that, as soon as Krudprom was in the hands of the four owners, the prices of iron and steel products rose by two and two times. The process of derailment has begun. As of 1 December last year, prices have been rising by 35 per cent completely unwarranted. One could say that the GOCs require inflows, and the GOCs require money. You think that money went to Goki? Absolutely not. You're very wrong. To date, the GOCs have a cost-effectiveness of between 0 per cent and +1 per cent. The amounts owed today were owed to the GOCs, which the GOCs are to the State, restructured and cancelled for five years. Think about it. We've postponed the budget payments for five years. At the same time, owners during that time took off the GOCs, literally up to a billion dollars. An elementary example. The Ore is purchased by the owner of the GOC for 50-60 grevens and sold to the metalsmiths for 127-130 bracelets. 100 bracelets are in the pocket. However, the debt is set at 5 years. To date, metals that have risen up against such an increase in prices, against such an economy, are simply being turned into a corner. In December, four metal companies were practically free of raw materials. At the same time, Suhaya Balka threw ore onto the ground, and at the same time, many of the GOCs threw ore on the ground to 450,550 tons. Subtle companies were shipping abroad at $17 a ton. At the time we were offered $24 a ton. The colossal number of prices and those declared and at which amounts have been exported requires separate proceedings to date. The loss of 170,000 tons of iron from such an economy last month. I want, literally, two more words on what they say about the EU. Yes, indeed, there is a problem today. But think about what the EU is demanding today. What do we have from this cooperation? On a hot roll, the quotas they give us. This is 1.8 per cent of total roll production. Cold rolled roll is 2.4%, and so on, and so on. I mean, I'm asking you for one thing, we'll eventually cross over, we'll talk like that, we'll start working for the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u81	Yes. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the rate of export of export duty on iron ore, registration number 6396, please vote. [[11:40:06]] For-142 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 9, Communists -57, "Regions of Ukraine" -35, National Agrarian Party - 0, Social-Democratic - 2, "One Ukraine" - 1, Socialists - 20, Block Timoshenko - 3, Union - 0, "Hard Ukraine" NDP - 1, Democratic Initiatives - 3, Center - 0, non-fractional - 11. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I should have been the co-rapporteur of the Committee, I thought they would vote and not insist. I don't know, why isn't the room voting? In fact, we are undermining Ukraine's economy today and very seriously. Why, for what does the Supreme Council require the adoption of Laws? When individuals do their best to remove raw materials and do not provide raw materials for the domestic consumer, specifically for metallurgical enterprises. And we don't want to go in there and cover this hole for them. Remember, our actions on the sunflower. The same was true when the sunflower was exported and our businesses could not work here. We set up an export duty with you, and it became good for all of you, and there was sufficient profit for those who carried out the export. It was a catch for those who bought and produced, and there was enough for those who produced the sunflower, but there was no end to it. Now the same is happening in the steel industry with the mining industry. And when our Committee unanimously supported this bill and I propose, our faction in, to one person, has proclaimed the Socialist faction. And the Committee suggests: let us re-vote, an essential law for the economy. I understand that lobbyists are coming, but we have to admit that we made mistakes in allowing Rudprom to privatize, and that's the situation. [[I'm done.]] Please vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u83	I see those who want to sign up, please, for reasons. Please, three minutes. Teryohin, Kuharchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u84	Dear people's deputies, what Tsuko said, we can. Excuse me, can I talk to you for a second? Thank you very much. We can see when we look at the dynamics, really, at the prices of enterprises that have just been privatized, of the Crucifixion Enterprises. There is a problem with the technology of establishing an expert moment by the one proposed by Mr. Matvienkov. It does not fully comply with the rules of the Customs Code and with the obligations we made in the protocols to the WTO. So there's this proposal: to support conceptually this in the first reading of this bill. The other one. Adapting this bill to international standards so that we don't have sanctions from foreign countries in such a way that it can be applied to close the internal market, about what Tsuko said. Therefore, the first reading and further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u85	Please, Kuharczuk, follow him, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u86	Chef, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, just now Deputy Tsushko has self-criminally admitted that the privatisation of Krustprom was a mistake that today has a negative impact on Ukraine's economy. The Communist faction has taken a firm stand against this affair, and so today it will vote for the new rates of the imported expert moment for the iron raw material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u87	Mathvienko gives Boyko the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u88	Respectable People's Deputies. I understand very well that today they are not voting for Ukraine, not for the people of Ukraine, who are very many deputies who speak well from the rostrums and understand what I am talking about. Today, the interests of Privat, the Interpipe, are protected by the four structures that own these GOKs. I earnestly ask to support Terehina, indeed on the committee and on the factions that I have been to, including our Ukraine. Everyone's been supported, and there's something completely different going on in the hall, because today is me. It's just that it's a spectacle that happens to us in the Supreme Council when money plays. There is something else going on in the country that they want to say. I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u89	Please, Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u90	Respectable colleagues. The issue that we are now considering, of course, is of course relevant and very controversial. I want to tell you, those who speak don't know that question. We have an excess of five million iron ore in balance and seven million oats, the iron ore of the world's worst. So, what do we propose now? Close the export. We will be happy to take Australia, Brazil, who wants to, but then no one will let us go. Therefore, I believe that there must be a Government in that State. The old one's gone, there's going to be a new one, a market one, with normal views, and it's going to work out. I mean, what's going on? That Parliament had been turned into a dispatch. You can't do that! That's why I think we need to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote one more time, let's figure it out. It's about the vote on the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of the draft Law on the rates of export expert duty on iron and steel raw materials. Project registration number is 6396. Please vote. [[11:47:00]] For 115 Questions are not included in the agenda. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 8, Communists - 58, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 18, National Agrarian Party, Social Democratic Party and "The One Ukraine" - 0, Socialists - 17, Block Timoshenko - 4, "The Union" - 1, "The Hard Ukraine", NDP - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "The Centre" - 0, "The Non-Factional" - 4. We need to put in order of the day and consider the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine for Working Pensioners, registration number 6169. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[11:48:04]] For 207 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 11, Communists - 58, "Regions of Ukraine" - 26, National Agrarian - 16, Social-Democratic - 17 "One Ukraine" - 5, Socialist - 18, Block Timoshenko - 8, "Soyuz" - 11, "Trud Ukraine", NDP - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Centre" - 0, non-fractional - 22. Yes. Please sign up for 3 minutes. Yes, please, Karmazin, follow him, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u92	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of the Victor Yuschenk bloc "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that any bill that deals with improvement, at least for a little bit of the situation concerning pensioners, should be considered. So I'd like to focus now and put the questions into the order of the day. The point is, Adam Ivanovich, what you see is that great excitement today in the nation. Not everyone expected Victor Yushchenk's victory to be announced today, everyone was looking after the inaugural issue and so on. And that's why it's just a matter of vote mobilization. There are people in the room, there is also understanding, just not enough voices. I ask you to put the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u93	Please, Alexandrovska, follow her, Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u94	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harikov. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I think that's probably the way it is, too. A vote that the MPs have failed to understand the issue to which we are going. We're all here, on the Supreme Council, in front of our veterans, in front of our pensioners. This law contains an element of discrimination against those who are pensioners, but who are forced to work for various reasons: because they have a low pension and cannot live for it, many people work very hard to pass on their experiences to young people who are just starting to work today. Therefore, the discrimination contained in the law that deprives those people of pension entitlements for special merit, we propose that this discrimination be eliminated. Therefore, I believe that we, distinguished colleagues, should put this issue on the agenda, consider this law and necessarily support it. Thank you for your attention, I'm sure you'll support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u95	Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! I think that this thing that just happened, literally, in a vote, is just some kind of misunderstanding. And so here, I know that we don't have two cards, and in the last vote, it kind of went awry about what it went for. So I think we need to vote because that's the question where I think we all have to be united. It will simply be shameful for those who have earned and do not receive what they should receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u97	Yes, please, Sharov. Nightly microphone, please. Noshchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u98	160th constituency, Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich. Dear chairman, distinguished voters. For individual categories of pensioners, a special merit pension is really a recognition of their merits to society. And I would like to suggest that we go back to voting on those bills in the agenda and look at it essentially. This is not only a special merit pension for those who will work but also for certain categories that have been missed for certain reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. I'm betting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 6169. [[on Working Pensioners]] Please vote. [[11:52:57]] For 279 The question is included. Please, the author of the Bill Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u100	Dear colleagues are completely in solidarity with all those who today have expressed their support for the bill. The bottom line is this. Regrettably, the special merit pension law in force establishes a rule that benefits or special merit pensions are not granted to retirees who work. But that is discrimination because a person receives a special merit pension, which is why he deserves it, and we divide it into two categories: workers and non-working. This person has earned, and he has, and is obliged to receive, on a full programme, everything that the State has to pay under the Pensions Act for special merit. And the second rule that changes in the law. People who are currently in boarding homes for older persons with disabilities will also receive this pension in full, not in part, as is the case today. Why, because, once again, a special merit pension is a person's personal merit, and he must receive it regardless of whether he works or not, he lives in his home or boarding school for the elderly. That's the main thing, and that's what this bill is all about. I beg your pardon. All right, there's nothing more in this bill. We give people what they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Three minutes. Yes, please, Karmazin, follow him, Cheshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u102	I'd like that. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. I would like to thank Vasil Ivanovich for bringing into line with the rules of the Constitution the position of non-enforcement of citizens' rights, including receiving pensions and working. And that's why, Vasil Ivanovich, I have this question. Please tell me what you think and why the government is the government of Yanukovich! - who said he was a people and actually took money from this people, why he didn't ask these questions and support such proposals, because these proposals have been made a long time ago, Vasil Ivanovich, if you remember, in this room. It's just that somehow they didn't come to each of the national MPs, although the problem is huge, people made money and no one can take it away. And they were taken by such laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u103	My dear colleague, I am grateful for your question as well as your support for your faction colleagues for this bill. Deeply convinced that if we do, we will do it right. The motivation behind this bill, on my part, is the appeal of the veteran organizations, who have raised the question of what should be done. In part of the Government of the Executive General, I am not ready to comment on this at this time, at least on the grounds that I am a deputy and therefore it is my right to make such proposals. I'm grateful to everyone who supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u104	Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u105	Fucking Communist faction. I'm primarily addressing those radio listeners who listen to our session and telling them that the faction "Our Ukraine" didn't vote for the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. And our electors who are harmed by this law come to us for reception and ask that this law be passed. The Communist faction will support this law and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u106	Please, Spig. None. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u107	Vladimir Bondarenko, Viktor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Regrettably, today this very law, and these acts around it, are no longer about caring for pensioners, but about agitation itself. Mr. Yeshchenko, please raise your vote now and apologize to the audience you're lying to, in front of the audience, and in front of the entire room, because if not everyone votes in the faction, it doesn't mean that the faction didn't vote. That's the first one. The other one. Of course, the timing of this law coincides with the end of the totally shameful time of the government of Yanukovic, who promised people so much that now several governments under the line will not fulfill those foolish promises: to give each one a car, each one a sky in the stars, and so forth. So you are today, Mr. Vasile, except that you're really talking about good things, you're doing the program, you're putting to the government of Victor Yushchenk tasks that can't be done and you're covering yourself up for pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. I think that the problem is that the change in the executive power is natural if we are to say that it is a democratic country, and that you and I should have all the legislators in this room. It must be our sacred duty to you. And when we talk today about the fact that this bill should come into effect, I think it concerns not so many political sympathys, antipathies, I'm actually inviting my colleagues to come back to the ground, but we're talking about that a working pensioner and a pensioner in an old-age boarding house should receive a full pension in person, his assigned, for special merit. May God always be, and we have found consensus on all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's finish this question, then we'll call it a break. Please, Eshchenka Replica, 1 minute. Sit down, Vasil Ivanovich, Vasil Ivanovich, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u110	This is the Communist faction. Once again, at the request of one of the deputies of "Our Ukraine," that "Our Ukraine" does not support the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, only 27, 28 national deputies from "Our Ukraine" of 99 voted. And you don't have to justify it here. Because we know how you feel about these things, you have a double morality. Yes. That's why I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u111	Yes. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich of the Committee. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to address those, our colleagues in the hall, the national deputies, who have some doubts about the inclusion in the agenda, or the decision on this bill. I'd like to draw a few words about the history of the question. The first version of the National Pension Insurance Act stipulated that any working, working citizen would not receive a special pension before Ukraine as long as it worked. Later we took a step toward a meeting, meaning that those people who receive, whose income is less than their subsistence minimum, they get. But today we are trying to take a step further. Because when it comes to special merit before Ukraine, rather than social assistance, it has to be paid whether or not a person works or does not work as much as he receives. I would like to emphasize once again if this is about special merit before Ukraine. Therefore, the Committee decided that, in order to support the bill, it would ask all colleagues not to depend on party ownership, factionism, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are we going to talk about it or are we going to vote? Karmazin insists. One of those who signed up insists on speaking. Yavorowski, Karmazin. Let's take 12 minutes then. Please, Yavorowski, follow him, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u114	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovva, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we all, someone says in a voice, someone doesn't say in a voice, we understand very well that we're turning the page of Ukrainian history and we're starting something new and, God forbid it to work. I'd like us to avoid any speculation on this issue today. I'm standing right in front of you, and I know that millions of people are listening to us right now. And I want to say that, of course, what we're proposing today is very normal, because there's nothing strange about when a person, the more a person who deserves to be in Ukraine, is given, worked, retired, worked and retired. World practice has absolutely nothing here against the law. And, of course, we must support this bill. But I want to be absolutely honest with you so that people can hear what's going on. First. We should be very calm and normal without any political distractions to find out what merit is before Ukraine. I'm quite frankly saying that I understand that those people who have Soviet orders, medals that fought on the fronts of the Great National War, I understand perfectly that those people have merit before Ukraine, and I'm willing to accept it. But we still haven't solved the other issue. We have still divided our society into two. And tell me, the UPA soldiers who fought for Ukrainian independence, who do not have any merit before Ukraine, that we have not recognized them to this day, have we not even recognized them as a warring party? As a result, respectable opponents, do not shout or shout. But I am absolutely convinced that if we go this way, tomorrow we will find new people who have merit before Ukraine. And those who were on Maidan, let's give them a pension tomorrow, and those who did big rallying in the early 1990s, let's give them one, too. Then we will be completely honest with the people. That's the first one. Second, come on, we don't have to do this anymore, but we understand very well that today we're almost 15 billion. A deficit in the Pension Fund. So let's think honestly, I say again, so don't speculate on it. If someone in our Ukraine abstains and doesn't vote for it, that's their position, they're entitled to it. And as for what this possibility is, allowing these people to work, I will personally vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u115	Please, Karmazin. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u116	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". First of all, I have to drop the charges that were made to the block address, and you can see that there are no people in the hall objectively right now. This has to do with many of the reasons that lie today and with the responsibility placed on the block of "Our Ukraine" today. And I would like no one to go down in spite of this, for objective reasons. And if 27 people voted, that was enough to include the issue in the agenda. As far as my attitude is concerned, I have consistently advocated that the people who are in the boarding houses and who have a special merit pension are not many of those people who also have a special merit pension and that they are in the boarding house. There's not a lot of people like that, but it's an offer to Article 14 that Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag gives, and it needs to be accepted on the first reading, but it needs to be based on a financial and economic date, and it's not there. So, conceptually, it's very important that the law can't be adopted by any means from the 1st day of its publication. That is, according to the 27th article of the Budget Code, since there are laws that affect the formation of an income component, they should be officially published by August 15, which precedes the planned one, we can only write before January 1, 2006, Vasil Ivanovich. Here's when we can write when the law takes effect. That's the first one. The other one. We have to take a look, and I agree with Mr. Yavorowski to see how many men are going to fall under this law? So far, according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, more than 1 million people have received special credit. And today we're going to have proposals and other people who have received or received the honorary letter of the Supreme Council and counted them out to these people, it's probably too much to expand this circle of persons indefinitely. And so every 12 of us is special today, so far. So I would suggest that I adopt the bill in the first reading, along with writing that it could be financial, financial and economic, and write down the entry into force. It may not be before, I repeat, not before 1 January 2006, perhaps even a little later. We already have a 17 billion-dollar hole, which is due to the adoption of different laws. Thus, such a decision will be balanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u117	Yes, Mironenko, I can't see. Alexandrovska, please follow her.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm just surprised in this room sometimes, as some people, based on their political considerations and speculations, know how to put a shadow on their knitting. The elemental question, the rights of the people, the rights of those Ukrainian citizens, I ask you very much, do not interrupt me, please, behave yourself culturally in the hall. "Our Ukraine," unfortunately, you do miss culture. I'm drawing your attention to that. But I'll say what I want to say. The basic question is: a person works, is a pensioner, is a specialist, while he continues to work and is in need of this production, and he is also distinguished by the fact that he has special merit before the Family. How can such people be discriminated against? This law proposes that such discrimination be abolished. I hear the argument here: budget deficit, no calculation. How come there's no calculation? We know with you that more than 13 million pensioners in Ukraine, about 2 million just working. Of course, it is clear that one million of them cannot be people who have the right to special merit. Unfortunately, we have very few people in this position. Much more people really deserve that status. Therefore, I do not believe that any argument that has been made here against the adoption of this law should be taken into account. I believe that we have long had to consider extending the scope of those who are entitled to this status. Today, we do not have the right to receive additional pensions for special merit for those who in their own time have worked with dedication, received letters and received letters from the Council of Ministers of the USSR and the USSR. We know that these letters were rarely given. It was a high reward, and it was given to those working at work. And today all we have to do is worship these people who are still working because they are working for the benefit of our people, for the benefit of our State. I believe that this law fairly eliminates the discrimination that exists today, and I ask all deputies to support it. I call attention to the inadmissibility of political speculation around this basic but very necessary solution to the conflict and the solution of the issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u119	Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u120	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Well, first of all, I'd like to go to the radio audience right now and remind them of the essence of the bill, because the debate is distracting us from what we want to get into this room. The essence is to abolish the standard that limits the payment of special merit pensions to working pensioners in Ukraine, as well as the full payment of such pensions to persons living in boarding homes. Undoubtedly, the adoption of the project will allow individuals with special merit to receive a full pension. This is a benefit, since the merits of such individuals before Ukraine should not depend on their work, place of residence, or condition of their health. Of course, those who have special merit before Ukraine also have a decent provision at an advanced age. At the same time, I would like to point out that their pension is a earned right, not a favor to society. Therefore, it is right to ask the question of repealing a standard that restricts the payment of pensions to workers. The same is true of veterans who live in boarding houses. As a whole, therefore, this bill deserves support. But any bill that has some financial implications can't be adopted like that, blindly. We would like to know what the average pension is now for special merits, how much there are now in Ukraine who receive special-debt pensions, the amount of money paid to them, and the sources from which it is formed, and the prospective calculation of the future number of pensioners of the listed category and the amount of money needed to finance. It should be noted that it is proposed that this bill take effect on the day of its publication. But accepting it will increase spending from the State Budget, that is, it will affect the spending of the State Budget. According to the Budget Code, laws that affect the formation of an income or expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year leading up to the planned budget. Therefore, for those who listen to us today, it is necessary to explain that if this bill is voted on, it will be introduced and effective not earlier than on January 1, 2006. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that it is possible to take the bill as a basis and to express the wish that financial justification will always be presented in its consideration. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Question completed. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. I also support the comments of the national deputies who say that they should be accepted only in the first reading. That's the first one. And the second. According to the 27 - article budget code, the deadline for its entry into force is set because we are already said to be late this year. It will only have to be put into effect on January 1st of the following year. Yes, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[on Working Pensioners]] Registration number 6169. Please vote. [[12:15:01]] For-286 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 2, the communists - 55, the Ukrainian regions - 51, the People's Agrarian Party - 25, the Social Democratic Party - 28, the One Ukraine - 19, the Socialist - 20, the Block of Timoshenko - 12, the Union - 16, the Labour Ukraine, the NDP - 14, the Democratic Initiatives - 11, the Center - 3, the Non-Factional - 30. [[united]] A break of 30 minutes is announced. In 12 hours 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u122	Please invite us to the session room so that we can continue our work. We need to consider the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities, this is registration number 6133. So please invite the people’s deputies to the session room so that we can make a positive decision on this matter. Dear colleagues! A motion for inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6133 is put to the vote. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[12:47:57]] For-162 It was a rating vote. The factions, please. We're going to vote now. I beg of you, Your Honor, this is a social bill. Our Ukraine - 17, Communist faction - 55, Ukraine - 17, People's Agrarian Party - 18, SDPU - 0, Ukraine - 1, SPU - 8, Timoshenko - 2, Union - 9, Labour Ukraine, NDP - 9, Deminitiv - 5, Center - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 12, Postfaction - 9. Please, Suskevitch Motive microphone. I beg of you, dear fellows. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I ask, first of all, to invite our fellow national deputies into the hall. It's different. I'm paying attention to this bill. He is a technological reformer, so he just essentially requires our urgent adoption to continue to work on our pension reform. Therefore, we cannot but vote in favour of this bill; it must be voted on. By the technology of pension reform, let's somehow invite the people's deputies and please support us to include them in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u124	Yes. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 6133. Please vote. [[12:49:54]] For 245 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've returned to our consideration. Now, here's the next offer. On the inclusion in the agenda of Act 6133. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:50:23]] For 254 Questions to be considered are included. The report invites Labour and Social Policy Minister Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, three minutes, please. Prepare Valery Mikhailovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, a respected national deputy, in view of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on National Pension Insurance and the adoption of the Law on State Social Assistance for Persons eligible for Retirement, it was necessary to amend the relevant laws of Ukraine. To make sure that we don't retire from the Pension Fund to pay money that's part of the solidarity system and have to go as labor pensions, but to transfer them to state welfare status and pay from the state budget. Therefore, it was necessary to amend the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Moreover, when we make changes to these laws, we increase the size, the size of the payments. For example, the size of government social assistance for children with disabilities under the age of 16 whose disease is associated with the Chernobyl disaster is increasing from 92 dollars to 182 dollars. There is also a double increase in those payments that are paid to care for the disabled of the first, second, third group. Also in order to introduce the rules of the Law on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Workers and Other Elderly Citizens and to amend article 19 of the Act. And given that the Ukrainian State Social Assistance Act, which does not have the right to a pension and the disabled, provides for the transfer of social benefits and allowances to the State Social Assistance System, is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act by excluding social pensions and pensions for care. The bill is considered by social partners, employers, professional associations, and supported. Also supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the matter of pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons, it is proposed to be accepted in the first reading. We have an observation from the Science and Technology Department. Among them are the correct comments that I propose to take into account when preparing this bill for second reading. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the minister? None. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please sit down. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević is Secretary of the Committee for Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u127	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, as I have already said, this bill has a technological basis, because since 1 January 2005, the Law on State Social Assistance has become effective for people who do not have the right to a pension or a disability. Pension reform has also begun to take effect accordingly. And the retirement system, which worked in an old-fashioned way, disappears a number of aspects related to what was called social pensions. In particular, changes are being made to eliminate the legal conflict. Bills such as the general government’s compulsory pension insurance. There is no longer the provision of social pensions. At the same time, the legal definition as the term "social pension" is still present in a series of valid legislative acts that are still working today. Let me remind you, dear colleagues, that the issue of the material security of persons who do not have the right to a work pension is regulated by the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance on 18 May 2004 to persons who do not have the right to a pension and to persons with disabilities. The proposed legislative act actually replaced the concept of "social pension" with the term "State social assistance." There are also a number of other legislative acts that are in operation. And this is the task of correcting and determining the new legal terminology and ensuring the very fact that there are now completely different factors that have ensured the allocation of funds from the Pension Fund. That is what this bill, which the government has put forward, is about to decide. It is proposed to amend a number of laws in force today, namely, the status and social protection laws of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the pension insurance of military personnel, the primary, the military warehouse, the basic principles of social protection for veterans of work and other elderly citizens, pension insurance, and the compulsory state pension insurance. In particular, the bill proposes replacing "social pensions" with "public social assistance" for children with disabilities, whose diseases are linked to the Chernobyl disaster, the elderly and the establishment of a different order of calculation of these pensions. Dear friends, I would like to say that the bill submitted by the government has a purely technical, once again, technological character and was generally supported by the Committee on Disability Pensioners, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, which in their decisions recommended that it be accepted as a basis. What the minister said is, of course, some of the points pointed to by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u128	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u129	There are two basic positions that narrow down some of the rights of our pensioners. I am sure that in the second reading, these points will be worked out and the law will be passed. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Why don't we take it as a basis, then let's work? We have such an offer, dear colleagues. We've still got a group of short-term bills left here. We could work actively right now when we're out of session schedule and then we'd go and work on the committee. If there are no warnings, no one insists on the speech, then I would put the vote to the vote. Nobody insists?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u131	Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u132	I am voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities. Registration number is 6133. Please vote. [[12:57:51]] For 303 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u133	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Now, dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and guaranteeing their social protection for the families of hospital and hospital workers who have died is the registration number 6082. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:58:32]] For 281 The bill is included in the agenda. Boris Jakovič Bespalij is the national deputy of Ukraine, author of the project, right? Please, Boris Jakovitch. Prepare for the head of the Committee, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, to your attention, a bill that does not provide for any additions to existing laws is proposed in the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, to remove restrictions that have simply exhausted themselves, even though they may have made sense in their own time. Such restrictions are two. First, the validity of this law has spread; you just listen to the families of the dead hospital staff and the hospitals of Leningrad, Stalingrad, Odessa, and Sevastopol. That is, if hospital workers and hospitals in Kiev or Kharkiv or Donetsk or Lviv were killed, they were not extended to these families. This norm, it was understood when it was, well, if anyone doesn't remember, these are the first cities of heroes of the Soviet Union -- four. And when there was no opportunity after the war to help all the families of the dying hospital workers, they made such an exception and a special standard for the first hero cities. Since then, and the number of hero cities has grown significantly, and unfortunately, already people, maybe not as many as they would have spread, so that's the limit, all the more, in Ukraine, it's absolutely rudimentary. But it's not just about technical change, it's about what these people are. Families of deceased hospital workers and hospitals who were killed, not in these cities, but in other hospitals. I think it needs to be expanded. The second restriction, too, was a bureaucratic norm, which absolutely, well, had no ground, namely: for the moment, the act of the law extends only to those husbands or wives if the fact is true. Well, if the dead are invalids of the Homeland War, whose disability was recognized as life. Well, everyone knows that disability can only be recognized in life. So this limit is, well, frankly, idiotic. But the point is that documents of invalidity confirmation are sometimes found and obtained later, because of the archive in Podilska are known and so on. And I have in the district, for example, voters who because of the bureaucratic obstacle do not get their benefits and social security just because the help went late. By the time the help went, for example, the man had gone missing. I mean, it's totally nonsensical. This law had already been passed. At the time, he too was supported, but there was one norm that led to the discussion. At that time, the session hall did not support it. I think now, without any problems, the session room can totally support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Yes. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Mr. Reporter, please tell me why you do not propose to adopt this law immediately on two readings. Because obviously your suggestions are absolutely right, which I want to thank you for. You have to take them and put them on that dot. We have the ability to accept it now in two readings, because the changes are actually minor, and the changes that are needed for people. And the amount of government budget that's going to be needed, it's probably too scarce, even though I understand it, it's impossible to say today. That's probably why there's no justification for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u138	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, for your support. I agree with the first sentence in general, because it is legally very simple. The new text is not added, only delete is left. And in terms of costing, we tried to figure it out exactly another year and a half ago. Unfortunately, we really can't make an accurate calculation, because we don't know all of these people. But it is clear that, unfortunately, there are not many of these people now. I would like to emphasize that the budgetary process is now under way, so any social laws that are being redesigned may already be included in the budget. So that's not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u139	Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Bronnikov, "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozhye. Dear Boris Yakovlevich, we have recently passed a law on children of war in this room. The first impression is that the law covers veterans and children of hospitals, military hospitals. Or is this a separate article? Please provide further explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u141	Thank you very much. No, in fact, the people of this law and the law on children of war are intersecting because the families of the dead hospital and hospital staff may be able to include children, and then there is an extension of the law, as we call it, of the children of war, although I agree here with Karmazin, there are no children in the war, but there is a law. But families can be wives, husbands can be adults then, they can be there after 20 years, and the law on children of war applies to persons who were born in 1927 and later, and 1923. In addition, the social guarantees provided for by the law on children of war and the law to which they are bound. The status of war veterans, their social protection, they're different, that's to say, they're a little bit different social guarantees. So the intersection is so partial it really is. But I'd like to add something else. If there are any social guarantees under two laws, they are complementary, not mutually exclusive. And if there is a pension for him, for example, a person is already choosing that pension for himself. Well, man will choose that pension, of course, which is bigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u142	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u143	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear reporter! This is the second time we've come across the financial part of the law. We can go against the President's veto. The thing is, I can be very sympathetic to you, because I've come across it myself that social services really don't want to keep accounts and similar bills. As a result, it can be accepted in a second reading as well. But with the introduction of January 1, 2006. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u144	I thank you for that question. I would like to say that every law we adopt is not only for its financial reasons but also for other reasons. In this case, it is the elimination of discrimination, simply a manifest, violent injustice that was not settled just because they might not have noticed, and the law was passed long ago. Think, then, of the purpose of preserving the benefits only for dead family members if their relatives were killed in Leningrad, Stalingrad, Odessa, and Sevastopol. So how can this restriction be promised or not supported? I think it's just by chance that it hasn't been removed by now. With regard to the veto and other things, I would like to say that there is a budgetary process going on right now, and the task of the new government is to take into account the draft budget, the changes, more faithfully, those decisions that are now being worked out by the Supreme Council. I think it's very right that we're now dealing with social issues that we can't put off. Until 2006. I'm sorry, this is about the elderly. What can be done about the elderly?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u145	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, has the floor for a committee report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I'd like to express my position to the committee on this issue. We have very carefully considered the bill, where the bill was considered in the presence of the author, and I would like to talk about the following. We have great respect for any bill aimed at strengthening the social protection of various categories of Ukrainian citizens, but this is a case where the committee does not support the proposal for adoption not only in the second reading but also in the first reading. That's what this is about. The idea itself deserves, say, all kinds of support, but it is about granting benefits or extending benefits to families of hospital and hospital workers who have died. We had so many during the Great Homeland War. But there were two categories: those of them hospitals and hospitals that were in the active army and those of them that were, let's say, in the deep back. And that's what we need to distinguish. There's no distinction here. There are a number of other observations. That's why the committee, after a perfect study of the problem, is proposing that this bill be returned to work. First of all, there's a number of comments to solve the problem that I'm talking about. By the way, it was with these proposals that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, and a number of other departments. So the committee proposes that this document be sent for processing and then for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u147	Yes. Thank you, Peter Stepanovich, sit down, please. Is there a need to discuss, Your Honor? One minute, it's me. Who among the national deputies who signed up for the performance insists on the right? Who insists? We've got an appointment: Yavorowski, Karmazin, Mironenko, Solomatine, Šurma and Cherniak Vladimir Alexanderovich, are you insisting on the performance? No, it's not. So, Carmazin, please. Let's go, let's give you 10 minutes to discuss and make a decision. Huh? Well, please turn on the microphone, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u148	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, "Our Ukraine" will vote in favour of this bill. And not just because he's prepared by our colleague Boris Nepal, but because he's carrying around, really, well, some very important humanitarian detail: frontal doctors, doctors who worked in hospitals. We will support him and urge everyone else to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u149	Yes. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u150	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. When I asked the rapporteur, the national deputy of Bespalam, I expected him to say that he was making changes immediately, that the entry into force of this law could take place not earlier than 1 January 2006. For the same. It's only the author who can now bring about a violation of this concept, which is currently written in this project. And it's written in, from the day it's officially published. In view of the budgetary impact, this cannot be done. And I understand very well that this is probably a case of why it happened. I'm surprised by the position of the committee that doesn't want to adopt this bill, I'm just surprised. I don't want to blame any political involvement of the committee, I just see that to restore the justice that is proposed to be removed, there is a clear injustice about the families of the hospital workers and hospitals who were not only in Leningrad, Stalingrad, although I love Odessa and Sevastopol the most. But these cities were, of course, recognized as hero cities back in Stalin’s day. And yet without all logic, all of this has been transferred from Stalin's legislation to our laws. And I don't know if maybe that's the reason that there's still some piece of steel left behind, and there's a reason that this bill is not being adopted in some part of the room. I would still ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. And if the author makes a proposal that comes into force on January 1, 2006, I will generally propose if they support it in the first reading. Because the number of these people can't be great. And in this year, I think the government is going to make money to take it all into account. And it is obvious that to count the number of those people, wives, husbands of the dead persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War, as well as the dead participants in the war and the fighting on which the law also applies. They just can't be counted right now, it's very difficult physically. And the author of the bill could not physically do that, Boris Bespallian. So I'd like to adopt this bill in the first reading, and I think it's going to be a completely humane act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Victor Mironenko. None. Yuri Solomatin, are you insisting on the performance? Thank you. Igor Mikhailovich Shurma, microphone, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u152	Igor Shurma, faction of the United Ukraine Social Democratic Party. Without a doubt, the bill deserves attention because, according to previous colleagues, doctors working in medical institutions cannot share the geographical area and therefore no one can be discriminated against. But with regard to the second amendment, it seems to me that the drafters of the bill, when they speak softly, did not understand the essence of the law in force. The disability standard applies to the family members of the deceased, and it is meant that their disability is due to the lives of a late wartime survivor. So we don't think there's anything we need to change right now. But anyway, this bill requires financial justification. And the argument in the accompanying note is that since the persons listed are not too many and therefore the costs of the State budget are negligible, it is absolutely unconvincing and must be supported by specific figures. The faction will vote to take the bill on the basis of the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u153	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak. No, it's not. Dear colleagues, in this way, discuss a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection on the families of the deceased hospital and hospital staff. Please, Boris Bespallian, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u154	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I thank the participants for their specific suggestions. First from the committee. In fact, there were various hospitals and hospitals, but the project says that the dead, not the dead hospital workers, were killed only in the area, of course, by fighting. I mean, it's really, really just this word "dead" that says that it only spreads to the front or other battlefields of the dead. But, ah, if it's been killed by the bombing, it's also part of the fighting. I mean, it's not just about the dead as a result of some misunderstanding. And the second. I am grateful to Karmazin, and the Shurma here spoke properly financially. I think it's right, maybe it's time to postpone until 2006. And finally, the biggest misunderstanding. The law states that it extends to members of the family and to wartime actors who are recognized as disabled. I suggest that we take it down in life, recognized by the disabled and still in the text, so everyone is declared disabled only in life, and, unfortunately, documents are delayed, we have these facts, and that's people, well, how does that feel about a person other than abuse?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u156	It's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u158	What even serious work to do. I hope you'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! The draft law on amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection for the Families of Missing Hospital and Hospital Workers has been discussed. The proposal for adoption is based on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection for Families of Missing Hospital and Hospital Workers, registration number 6082. Please vote. 6082! Please vote. [[13:18:43]] For 261 Decision taken. The factions, please. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 85, Communists - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, National Agrarian - 28, SDPU - 2, "One Ukraine" - 15, "SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 16, "Soyuz" - 5, "Urban Ukraine and NDP" - 6, "Deminicatives" - 13, "Centre" - 10, "Democratic Ukraine" - 8, "Afterfractional - 13. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the consideration of applications]] Reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine Solosenko Mikola Pavlovich, to prepare Hennadia Josephovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the People's Deputies! The Act in force on the treatment of citizens provides for a large part of the rights of citizens to inform the procedure of the consequences of the treatment. Among the rights of citizens in the examination of applications and complaints is the right to participate in the verification of the application, to consult the verification materials, to insist on the issuance of additional material to the agencies dealing with the complaint and the application. However, there are instances where citizens are unwarrantedly refused to provide the necessary information regarding their treatment. The refusal is motivated by the fact that the information is State or any other secret than the obstacles to the enjoyment by citizens of their constitutional rights. The current version of the Ukrainian law on the treatment of citizens establishes the rights of citizens under article 19 but does not fully have legal mechanisms to ensure that they are implemented by the entities considering the application and the complaints. The proposed bill obliges public authorities, local governments, enterprises, organizations, citizens'associations, the media or leaders and other officials to fully argue that citizens'access to information is restricted in the examination of applications and complaints. The designated authorities and officials, provided that there are legitimate grounds for restricting access to this information in the examination of applications and complaints, are obliged to provide the citizens with a reasoned response. The adoption of the bill will give citizens of Ukraine greater opportunities to exercise their constitutional rights and legitimate interests when they approach the authorities of the State and local self-government. Well, this bill does not require additional funds from the State budget. And since all the comments of the committee are taken into account here, I propose, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to the people's deputies, to adopt this bill on first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u161	Thank you, Mikola Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. Gennady Josephovich Udovenko, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We all see every day how many people are standing there, at the corner of the Supreme Council. And a lot of us are being approached, and they're asking you to call that MP or that MP. People are already, this is the last despair, and they have come to the Supreme Council and they hope that we will listen to them and deal with their complaints. Why? They all come from different parts of Ukraine because they didn't want to talk to them more humanly, they didn't, they didn't tell them why you, or you, or you don't have the right to talk to them the way you want. And people complain, there are people who have been complaining for years. This bill, which he has just proposed, has just been reported by our colleague Soloshenko, it's aimed at protecting human rights, it's aimed at combating the will of the government, the will of bureaucracy, when people can't, they say, "We can't tell you why we're refusing to solve this issue because it's confidential materials, it's classified materials." And the Constitution guarantees that there can be no such thing in the state. Dear colleagues, the committee I lead, on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations, reviewed the bill, unanimously supported it and recommended that it be accepted as a basis and as a law. I would ask you to support this decision and to keep in mind those of our constituents whom this law will contribute to. ensuring their rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u163	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Two-in-a-row, two-in-a-row. Yavorowski, please. Get ready for Puzakov. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u164	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Viktor Yushchenka Block Dear colleagues, a few words will obviously be of interest to both our electorate and our radio listener, a few words to the story of this matter. We're a really strange society. I once asked one of the American senators if he received letters from his voters. And he told me quite frankly that for his full cadence he had received eight letters. I asked what was the subject of these letters. He said that there were some proposals for legislation and all. And they keep these letters as the pupil of the eye. Exactly the same is true in European states, for example, letters to the editors and so forth. I'm saying that before about a year and a half, I ran a radio program called "20 minutes with Vladimir Yavorowski," which Leonid Danilovich shut down personally, and I got 26,000 letters, let's say what kind of problems I was having with this program. And you and I get a lot of bad letters. I mean, we have a society today that's used to or sharing our thoughts, and usually to complain. In general, complain about officials. If we mention with you some years of Stalinary and later, until Brezhnev, when the main document was the anonymity they reacted to, and we know how much fate was crossed over, over. On cabbage only because of the anonymities themselves, we breathed them. Now we have a good bill on turning citizens. In this law, it's kind of written down that in no case can a complaint go to the same body that, let's say, is being complained of there. Now, honourable national MPs, unless any of you stand up and deny that today this is the model when the letters go around and come back to the person that our citizen complains about. These are millions of such examples in my parliamentary practice, and in yours, too. Because of this, of course, it's not even about lack of legislation, it's just about how we do things. And what answers do we, the people's deputies, know that, too, especially the MPs, let's say, from the opposition. It's completely formal, stupid, written under the same copier. Because of this, of course, I am a proponent of clarifications to this bill, but with all my deep respect both for Hennady Josephovich and for the authors, I cannot vote for this bill and that is why. Because it turns out we give the clerk the right to just explain that this information is closed. It'll make it easier for me if I'm told that this information is closed. Because of that, I don't think he makes any sense. As a result, I will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u165	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I also support the responsibility for violating the terms of reference of citizens, since these changes will have a positive impact on the activities of civil servants, oblige them to follow the terms of reference at the right time and allow them to overcome, at least in part, the existing barrier of bureaucracy. A citizen who has addressed a letter is awaiting an answer or advice, for today, mass violations of human rights, with more violent forms, are marred by human life. Respect for human rights, while still far from meeting international standards in Ukraine. In four months, I received 237 letters as a national deputy, half of them addressing violations in the courts, 40 percent violating basic socio-economic rights. These two categories of mass appeals are another proof of the absence of legal and social protection of Ukrainian citizens. The number of complaints is steadily increasing. A particularly high percentage of them relate to the fact that constitutional rights are being violated in a mass way to a normal standard of living, which, unfortunately, is getting worse every year. People are desperate today. And there is nowhere to find help and advice. All over the world, bureaucratic tools, responses to citizens’ appeals to local authorities are superficial, sometimes low - professional. In other words, more notes, and just to move away from court cases, the answer is, "in relation to the large amount of time-limits checks have been carried on." And then they completely forget to answer. And these answers come mostly at the local level. I would like to believe that this bill will improve the situation of citizens’ complaints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u167	Yes. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, prepare Mironka. Is there no peacemaker? Solomatin will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u168	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Honourable National MPs, citizens of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular its 40th article, foresees that all have the right to address individual or collective written appeals, or to personally address the authorities of the State, the authorities of local self-government and the officials and officials of these bodies, who are obliged to consider the petitions and give a reasoned answer in the time frame established by the Law. To carry out this constitutional position, we have adopted the Law on Citizens’ Appeal. An analysis of its implementation shows that practically this Law is being fulfilled very poorly and can be said to be formally carried out. If, in previous years, the Law has been under review and supervised by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, we will now receive brutal write-offs and the number of complaints is ongoing. There are no exceptions when people respond, regular employees of those public authorities and local self - government who do not have the right to make decisions on these complaints. In view of this, I think it is absolutely correct to write here, but this law should be adopted in the first reading and added to this law that if there are legal grounds for restricting access to relevant information when considering a claim or a complaint to give a citizen a reasoned answer that may be challenged in a court of law. This needs to be complemented. That's the first one. And the second. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I addressed you directly from this high rostrum and said that we spend 2 million dollars a year from the budget of the Supreme Council, sometimes more, sometimes less, starting with funding to support the people's deputies from the first call. What? I was told it was confidential. We are going to spend our money criminally by the Office of the Secretariat and the Supreme Council, and you don't know that. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that there are MPs here from whom no one has the right to hide anything, including members of the secretariat and including the leadership of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that there are legal requirements that apply to finding a job, and then there is another. No one is offered anything, and it is convenient for all to count as former national deputies. I will then publish these lists myself and let it be embarrassing then before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u169	Thank you. I am also asking the Head of the Apparatus, one minute, to prepare information and give to the National Deputies the name of the former National Deputies of the first, second and third convocations that have not been employed and receive a salary in accordance with the Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Please do this. For tomorrow, please prepare and share this information. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u170	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this is a very interesting bill, and it's designed to protect one individual individual. And it's no coincidence that this bill was co-reported by the head of the Human Rights Committee. And I want to ask myself, and you, all of us, whether we will ever take care of the rights of the entire Ukrainian people and not just the Ukrainian people, and above all, that the rights of the peoples be properly exercised. I'm just going to give you a few examples that show that this is a public issue. For example, 10 percent of the richest people in the world own property that is 124 times more than 10 percent of the poorest people in the world. Each fifth does not have access to clean drinking water, 54 countries today are poorer than they were ten years ago. So what I'm saying is that it's precisely the kind of innovation that we're considering with you today and we're going to approve this bill, our faction is going to vote and I'm going to vote, and I'm going to vote personally, it's just letting go of a couple, it's a maquily beastly face of capitalism. And as long as this animal exists in the world, including in Ukraine, people will again and again turn to the legislative, executive branch of power. We will improve legislation, give hope to people who will finally be heard by this authority. And these innovations that we are voting for with you today will finally give a little bit more opportunity to our most annoying citizens to use their rights to appeal to the authorities of the state, executive power. But let us also acknowledge with you that those who will consistently go through all these torments and use their right, their thousand, tens of thousands of times less than those who will keep silent in our pockets and say, "Go, all of you! I hate the President, I hate the government, I hate the Supreme Council of Ukraine." But such a person does not say the same thing and the key thing is that hate overwhelms capitalism. So until we put this capitalism on the rails to get it and never return to our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u171	Yes, Vladimir Cherniak. Please, with a motive, a microphone. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! We know and know our electorate better than we do that the authorities of the state, local self - government, businesses, institutions do not properly carry out their responsibilities to deal with citizens’ claims. This question is overly bureaucratic. Bureaucratism is a hydra with lots of heads, you cut one, it grows another, and in general, it's the power to break away from the people, to ignore and ignore their interests, any authority in the whole world. Therefore, the mechanisms required to respond adequately, quickly, effectively, to citizens’ claims and complaints are needed. In view of the fact that the authorities are poorly carrying out their duties in this regard and tend to be writing off, the authorities are actually sending citizens around. The bill proposes that there be a violation of the legitimate grounds for restricting access to relevant information on the application or complaint, and that the citizen be given a reasoned answer. That's what the essence of the law is, to give a reasoned answer, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u173	Thank you. Yes. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Civil Appeal, registration number 4174, has been completed. The committee proposes to adopt as a foundation and as a whole as a law. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. Registration number is 4174. Please vote. [[13:38:53]] For 252 Decision taken. There is a proposal for the committee to approve this project as a whole as a law. No warnings from anyone? I can't see the warning. That's why I'm putting to the vote a bill amending the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act for adoption as a whole. [[concerning the consideration of applications]] Registration number 4174. Please vote. [[13:39:27]] For 278 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the number of persons]] We have three projects: 3102, 3675-4, 3675-5. Rapporteurs are National Deputy of Ukraine Boki Ivan Sidorovich, Bitchkov Sergey Anatoliyovich and Edin Alexander Josephovich. Please, Ivan Sidorovich. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u174	John Boki, the Socialist faction. The three national MPs are Constantine Mercuryovich Sitnik, Ivan Vasilovich Spodarenko and I are adding to the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. In short, we offer to list, there is a point where special merit prizes are given to award-winning orders and medals of the former Soviet Union and Orders. Ukraine’s State Prizes. And it's forgotten, in my opinion, that I understand, perhaps just for neglecting one important moment. The point is that not only the former Soviet Union but also the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic had its own national rewards. Well, I'm not talking about the former Order of the Labour Red Flag and the Order of the Red Flag of the Ukrainian RSR, which ceased to exist in the 1920s. But for many decades in Ukraine, there have been two high state awards -- the Honorary Literacy of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Gramot of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In many cases, however, they had higher status than some federal rewards. In particular, the award of the Honorary Literacy and Gramot of the Supreme Council Presidency would grant the right to a sentence of either a republican or a local personal pension. And why it wasn't included in the original document, I don't know. We also propose to add to this a supplement: that the award of the pension should include both Honorary Literacy and the Gramota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established in 2001. As I recall, something about this, about an increase in the social status of this prize, offered such a proposal at the time of the discussion and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but it was not legally established. Here, indeed, there is a coalition: that the Honourable Literacy and Gramot of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unlike the Honourable Gramatoire of the Presidency of the Supreme Council and the Gramota of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR, are not State rewards. But at the same time, with the introduction of this project, we also introduced the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. Well, I'm wondering why it's not introduced, let's say this law. But that's obviously just because it went on different committees. It's on the committee of Comrade Zybenko, or on the committee of Matvienka. And so it's going to be different here. But I think if we legitimize these awards of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as state-owned, this colossal is falling away. And relative to the two rewards of the Ukrainian RSR, I think we just need to establish historical justice here. What they were called is one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u175	Allow me to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u177	Do you have everything, Ivan Sidorovich? Thank you, sit down, please. Is Sergey the Bull? None. One Alexander. None. Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. Oh, there's one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. National Deputy Eden, Alexandria 103 constituency, faction of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine and Amendments, according to the relevant laws that took effect on January 1, 2003, has extended the number of persons entitled to a special pension. But there are no awards in the list by virtue of the Honourable Literacy and Gramot of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. It is known that these were national, republican awards for Ukrainian RSR citizens for significant gains in socio-economic development in the republic, region or region. It was awarded to citizens who were awarded an outstanding job in favor of Ukraine. In Soviet times, every citizen of Ukraine, rewarded with these letters, was entitled to receive a personal republican pension. Taking into account the appeal made by citizens with such credentials and the social importance of the matter, it is proposed that the list of persons entitled to the appointment of pensions for the special merit of citizens awarded with the honorary credentials of the Presidency of the Supreme Council and the Gramot of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of my bill. By the way, we have the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards and the Final Provisions of the Law in paragraph 3 stipulate that the act of this law extends to the rights associated with the award of citizens of Ukraine, worthy of the national awards of the republics of the Soviet Union. Such rewards are Gramota and Honorary Literacy of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R., which is the basis for the adoption of this bill. Please vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u179	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! In its decision entitled “to send the legislative initiative with registration numbers 3102, 3675-4, 3675-5”, the Committee determined that the decision. That these bills should be given to the authors for finalization, work. I'll explain why. The following was present in our deliberations. To date, in order for us to give the right to those who enjoy the above-mentioned rights and honours of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they must also be regulated by the Law on State Awards. Unfortunately, that's not settled. Second moment. We believe that, to date, these actions can eliminate the notion of “retirement for special merit before Ukraine”. Based on this logic, we believe that consideration of this issue is reasonable in one way and that these bills should be sent for further elaboration by the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Is there a need for us to discuss the matter? They insist, they sign up for national MPs, they insist. I have no right, dear colleagues. Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u182	He just called the head of the Supreme Council a Democrat. You're still responsible for this. Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. I came out here consciously, realizing that someone might not like my speech, but I don't want to be wrong. In my ears, Léch Valencia, a Polish who led his nation, spoke to her with a very clear, very clear phrase, "Let's share our poverty equally." We've been hanging around this horrible swamp for 13 years now, in corruption, in misunderstandings, we've torn society apart recently again to the East, to the West, that's all. When are we going to end this? I understand very well the people who have come up with this bill today. And I realize that someone's not going to like that very much. I don't know what I'm saying. But we are politicians, we have no right to lie. There are some realities that look us in the eye. I said, and I'll say it again from this rostrum. We've already closed our eyes to the fact that the encavedists who were sitting in the cabinets today are all actually getting merit pensions from the state, the UPA soldiers who rotted in these shelters and really fought for Ukraine, for nothing else, not for orders. Not for the medals, we didn't even recognize them as a warring party, I'm not saying that they don't fall under the merit bill before Ukraine, even though these merits are absolutely obvious to them. That is, we ourselves are still oppressing this injustice. Today I understand very well that not so many people have these letters from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I understand that the Ukrainian budget will last, and this could be voted for, but someone has just said, "Nadraga, it seems that Basil: we are devaluation the credits before Ukraine, we are devaluation them." Do you understand? What do we not know as they once appeared, and to whom did they appear? I'm sure we have to get this over with sometime. Today, we have to say that the state is poor, the pension budget today is 17 billion dollars short. You have to tell people, if we're really honest authorities today, we have to say that we have to go through this difficult period together. Let's not press it, let's not go around society any further. I say again, I'm not saying that I'm not going to vote for this bill, but I wanted my voice to be heard and convinced that a lot of smart people here in the Supreme Council are the majority. We're going to stop this vacchanal because we really want to be nice at the expense of the budget and say to our voters, "You see how good I am, I've pushed through the Law and by the letters." I understand Boki may have offended me, but, well, John, no one here likes you as much as I do. So don't take the word for it, because I'll take it. But once again, I say, well, let's stop at the rest of it, it's time to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u183	Ivan Sidorovich, after the discussion. Please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u184	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honourable national MPs, now in Ukraine a huge tragedy, have ended orders in Ukraine in the last three months. Totally, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the Orders are over, do you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u185	I didn't know, now I'll know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u186	Orderly books were completed. It's sold a year ahead of schedule, that's all. Because the President ran out of authority and he printed it, printed it all the time. We have colleagues here. Do you know Aunt Drought? You know. Why did she get a hero from Ukraine? It's proven to be a success in animals, in plants, and so on. Who was she here? Who was she? The nation’s deputy was to receive these awards for the success of the legislation and the promotion of the interests of the Ukrainian people. It was probably meant to be a formulation. Well, I would like to say that the letter of the Supreme Council, as well as the medal of the United States Congress, is a very high but moral reward, a moral reward. And such rewards should eventually be absolute to all. It was during those difficult times of war that the question of what to pay for the orders was asked this question. In time, we will come to the point that we will not pay for orders. And now that it's said that the hero of Ukraine, when the devaluation of this title went on, when we know that for individual titles, $100,000 was paid to assign money. And it's already a market mechanism for the market economy. This title and other names have been devaluationd. It's scary, it hurts because 99 percent of the decent people were there and 1 percent were there. How many generals are now assigned and everything else. All were promoted only to interfere with the government of Yushchenk. So I would say that we can't support these bills now, which are going to extend the range of people who have the right to receive special merit pensions. That's why we don't have that right because we've been racing against the Communists for the last three months in the pursuit of populism, competing with the Communists, competing with the centrists with our Ukrainians, and all of us were competing to make more populism. Plus 17 billion to the Pension Fund. Can Ukraine get it out? Let's find the money, God forbid, we can if we take it to the oligarchs. I'm against adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u187	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear national MPs, voters, radio audiences, television audiences, it's a strange thing to hear some of their colleagues speaking now, who, literally a few months ago or six months ago, blamed a government that's practically gone and that leadership in the state for not solving social problems, social issues. And now that we've come to these problems, to solve them, that's how it's coming to pass, as we've already seen that new ones have come to power, so let's not solve them then. So on whose side is populism greater, let's think about it, dear friends. In my opinion, this law is necessary. Not only will we provide some help to those who are rewarded with the Supreme Council’s credentials but we will also promote the prestige of the Supreme Council’s prize, but it is practically worthless if we look at it that way. And what we need to think about is that this award has been underestimated is who, when and for what we're rewarding, what we've been posing for, what we've been applying for, what we've been applying for, what we've been applying for, what we've been applying for, what we've been applying for, and what we've done with the Supreme Council's credentials or honorary credentials. This must be considered so that we do not give to those who do not deserve it. Because of our committee from the Poltava region, two awards were received for the Honorary Literacy of the Supreme Council. I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, would like you to listen to this, because this solution depends more on you. And they sent out those candidates who in their own time in 1994 contributed to Kuchma's usurping power when they gave up those positions that they had been elected to, those who worked as the head of the regime, and sent his candidature as a reward by the Honorary Literacy of the Supreme Council at a time when each day, by his every action and steps, he added local self-government. The one on whose side we should stand in this situation. Here, in my opinion, we need to really think about a new government, and it thinks it's national, and it thinks it's President, who? For what? And the rewards will be given? And you don't have to say that when, for something earlier, even the presidency of the Supreme Council was given credit for the work, and now it was given to those, including Plums, who were more fluttering around Kuchma, that's why they were giving orders. So, let's just say that this is a little bit of a question, because people also see who they're giving and what they're giving. Yes, this law is necessary. And I think it's only for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u189	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Please. The last one in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u190	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Each of our committees receives from time to time a submission from certain organizations, public and not only, asking to consider and accept the proposal for a letter or an honorary letter from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I know how much the flow of such proposals has increased lately, and you and I know how much this weakens the weight of literacy and honorary literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to suggest that the relevant committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generalize all the decisions that have already taken place and we get the proper information on this subject on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. At the same time, you and I know that, in Soviet times, the award-giving of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was much more restrictive. And not only was this considered not only by the relevant state institutions, but it was in some way controlled by a certain political structure that was then the Communist Party of Ukraine, which was carrying the burden of political responsibility for all that was happening in the country. For today! Today, we have political parties, you know how many, and these political parties are all trying to push through the committees and the Supreme Council of their favorites. Let's get you and me right here. And I would like to say in view of what has already been brought to my speech and what I have said is, I think I could agree, of course, to add to the overall list of those who have been awarded the Honourable Literacy of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. And with regard to other candidates who had already been awarded in the days of the independence of Gramota and the Honourable Literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is the same, people who deserve attention, to be respected. But let's solve this issue by making them mentioned in the Rewards Act, and at the same time let's put it in order to do what I said in my speech. So I would like to propose this solution: the issue of literacy and honorary literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the time being, and to confirm what was before -- the Gramata of the Presidency of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u191	For reasons, please, Shurma. Microphone, please turn it on. Dear colleagues, let us continue our work, the morning session before the conclusion of this consideration. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u192	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, it seems to me that those who are rewarded with the recognition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine receive moral satisfaction for their work, for their contribution to the development of their state. But. It should be noted that the same people who have earned this high reward deserve to have adequate material provisions at an advanced age. This also applies to people of an even older age who were in due course rewarded with the credentials of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. So it seems to me that this initiative should be supported. But we need to take a look at the recommendation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority as to which paragraph to make these changes. And there is no doubt that the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine will propose to adopt this bill as a basis. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, one minute. For reasons now, those who signed up and then went on. Just a minute. Nigga was recording, and Shurma was recording. Please, Nigger. Turn on the microphone. You probably don't have a card. Well, not yours, I can see it from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, the question is not as simple as it seems. Of course, credit should be paid, including pension benefits. The only question is, what are the criteria for this merit? Well, at least some MPs suggest that we consider the prizes of the Supreme Council, the receipts of those documents, the rewards that merit a medal. I think we can bend to that, or we'll overestimate these rewards. And if we accept that, then they will have the status of true rewards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u195	Singer. And then Zibenko. Microphone, please. Singer, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u196	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, first of all, we probably need to sort out the entire system of state rewards. And secondly, I think that we should support this bill, because all those awards called "Honorful Literacy," "The Gramanta of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR," were certainly awarded for the work, certainly, for their contribution to the development of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u197	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please. And then a replica of Ivan Sidorovich Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u198	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee has made an unpopular decision, I understand what was sounded by Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. And I'm the first one who's ready to support John Sidorovich Boki's bill anyway. But, first of all, for this Supreme Council Gramot and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Honorary Literacy, they still have to become a state reward, which they unfortunately are not for today. And secondly, even by supporting, I can't agree with the fact that we're putting the Supreme Council of Ukraine in one line with the title of the Soviet Union Hero and the Socialist Work Hero. It's also a mark, I understand, but we have to understand that there are still slightly different, different weights of these rewards. That's why, as a result, the committee made a similar decision, although I was actually, as a person, ready to support, let's say, John's project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u199	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u200	Thank you to the colleagues who supported our bill. I didn't think much about mine. But I would like to answer Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski like this about who was rewarded. I'll call you a few names. The head of the Supreme Council, the poet, the academic Paul Titchin in the 1970s received the Honorary Literacy of the Presidency of the Supreme Council. A pig named Motron Krutoporoch, who is said to have warmed her breasts at night. Breast-feeding Hanna. Galina Sivolap, writer of Jarina Dmitrovna Wilde and so on. Hundreds of writers, artists, milkmaids, factory directors, colporteur heads and so forth were rewarded with these prizes and were the highest prizes of the Soviet Ukraine. And we're not going anywhere, that's how it was, and these people deserve our respect, and I don't think we need them. And I want to make that argument. The title "deserved" is due, but the Presidency's Honourable Literacy, the Bureau's Grams were.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u201	Allow us to conclude the idea that we will then make a conscious choice. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u202	I think we don't need to get involved right now, let's say in the Honorary Literacy, the letter of the Supreme Council, today's prizes of the Supreme Council, but as for the highest awards of the Soviet Ukraine, I think we should accept it because, sorry, the Medal of Work virtue or any other allied medal then stood below all the national awards of Ukraine. And they, I repeat, were then granting the right to a pension with a personal pension of Republican importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u203	Dear colleagues! We will now put the vote in line with the discussion and registration of these bills. The first is to vote on the basis of draft Law 3102, by John Sidorovich Boki, Constantine Sitnik and John Spondarenko, for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[14:07:30.]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! The second is the draft Law, the author of the National MP Bichkov. [[Registration number 3675-4]] It's about amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. [[14:08:14]] For-44 The decision is not taken. It is on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, author of the National Deputies of Eden. [[Registration number 3675-5]] [[14:08:45]] For-88 So, honourable national MPs, we've conducted almost such a rating vote, the largest number of votes won, 207 is a project by John Sidorovich Boko, there, Constantine Sitnik and John Spudarenko. If you don't mind, I'm going to put a vote on the return to the project, registration number 3102. To return to consideration, please vote. [[14:09:25]] For 251 We're back to the discussion now. What? One minute, we're going to vote. Conovaluk Valérie, please, with a motive. Let's vote now, let's mobilize. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u204	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm literally seconds away. Dear colleagues, I'm really, they're almost the same and I'm asking you to support Boko. We haven't been able to vote, I think he would have passed this bill for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u205	A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian law amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 3102. Authors: Boki, Sitnik, Spodarenko. Please vote. [[14:10:28]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before we announce a recess, please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and Article 4.2.2. The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform you of the departure of Ukrainian National Deputy Haydos Istwan Ferencovic from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] What's the motive? Out of procedure, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u206	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You suggested that we finish all the questions that we have in the agenda, there are four questions left. Let's look at them and continue to work on the committees. Because we work here all the time, you know, in a wild mode like this, it's impossible: we tear ourselves apart, we run to the committee for lunch, we come back again, it's not there, it's not there, it's not there. Let's finish these four questions, let's vote now, and here all the normal deputies are, who are just interested in the job. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you to do this with an understanding of the organization of our work, to improve it and then to work on the committees. And there will be more free time for the national deputies who planned this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m0.u207	Since the chairman is only allowed to continue for 15 minutes, I will now put to the vote this proposal, which has just been made by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Who, in order to continue the morning session until the end of the consideration of the bills set out in the schedule on Thursday and then the time remaining, will be spent working on committees, factions and parliamentary groups. Please vote. [[14:12:35]] For 184 The offer is not supported. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. I'd like to be in the session room at 4:00.
