ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:04]] Registered -399 They registered in the 399 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are open. Dear National Deputies! Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the basis of the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group “Trust of the People” on 20 December 2005, I inform of the change of the MP group “Trust of the People” to the MP group “Revelation” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The composition of the MP group is 16 national deputies. Kisse Anton Ivanovich, Prowski Mikola Ivanovich, Konovluk Valerija Ilić, Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich, Frančuk Anatolia Romanović, was elected as the group’s designated representatives. [[group manager]] Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 20 December 2005. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: six laws have been passed, including the Ukrainian State Budget 2006 Act, and seven decrees, five bills adopted on the basis of which one bill is intended to be drafted, three bills and three draft regulations have been rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by factions and groups with statements, queries, messages, information. I'd like the factions to file a statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. But there were still announcements before the MPs asked. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Viktor Anatoliyovich from the National Party’s parliamentary faction. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Jury SOLOMATANA and Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the non-information and response to the request of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to establish the illegal involvement of a citizen of the Russian Federation with refugee status in Britain of Berezowski in financing the election campaign of a candidate for the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:38]] For 115 Request not supported. Mr Wojša to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens in the province of Tsurupina. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:08]] For 128 Request not supported. Katerina SAMOLIK to the President of Ukraine, Attorney General, on the adoption by the Ministry of Defence of the decision to sell the stadium of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in Sevastopol. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:40]] For-138 Request not supported. People of Kirichenko to the Head of the Supreme Council on the illegality of decisions taken by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted at its meeting on 6 July 2005, to give consent to the appointment of a citizen of Kornic as Head of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to agree on changes in the organizational structure of the Directorate-General for Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification work of the village of Pobużek Golovanów in the region of Kirovograd. The Group of Deputies to the Prime Minister on the negative situation that has arisen around the processing of documentation and software for the military purpose of Ukrainian production. [[RUDKOVSKI, CADENUK, KLIMENKO]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds to the village of Glzne Lubar in the region of Žitomir. Anton KISSE to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the Tarutine gas pipeline, the city of Arciz. PHOTOS TO THE Prime Minister about ensuring a healthy environment and environmental balance in the Black Sea Lake and the Black Sea Bay. Vadima GOUROV to the Prime Minister on the situation in the Krivoriz group of the mining and enrichment combination of oxidized ores. MICLE JANKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for a possible deterioration in the chemical industry in Ukraine. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of an underwater pipeline to the village of Poluniyuk of the Orzic region of Poltavian region. Vladimir CIBULKA to the Prime Minister on the influence of the Statecomteleradio on electronic and printed media. Mr. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the integration of the cultural building of the village of Hudjaki Cherkaskie district into the gas network. GEORGIA MANCHAULEKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the elimination of the consequences of the disaster, which took place in May 2005 in the territory of the Kitzman constituency: No.203 of the Cherniv region. Alexander ABDULLIN to the Prime Minister on the situation of mining companies in view of the incorrect consideration of setting the amount of tax on the use of the nagrass. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister regarding the failure to execute a court decision by the executioners of the State Executive Service. Kirila POLIČUCA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for villages in the district of Cherkas region. Mr. Vladimir STUPAK to the Prime Minister on the provision of local budgets in the Chernigiv region by assigning salaries to budget workers and the payment of energy supplies. Deputies' groups to the Prime Minister for ignoring the parliamentary appeal regarding the preservation of the management system for specialized medical care of nuclear power plants. [[BRONNIKOV, RICHARD, LOBOD]] Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister for the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 3 August 2005 on the gasification of the villages of Boguslawski, Rokitnjan and Kagarlic region of the Kyiv region. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for violating the legislation of the employees of the Cherka district administration in the closed stock company Roso for construction and repair work. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the Prime Minister for the gasification of the village of Petrovsk Vilnyan district of Zaporozhi. Valeria BORZOVA to the Prime Minister in connection with the late payment of pensions to pensioners of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence in the Donetsk Region. John BASTRIGA to the Prime Minister on measures aimed at increasing the level of pension insurance. A group of deputies to the Prime Minister for the increase in the price of bread as a result of the unprofessional actions of today's authorities. [[Wasilev, Kruglov, Puppet]] MICHELLE CATHERINCHUKA to the Prime Minister for the purchase of state-owned supplies for the Zaporez County Clinic. Mr. Vladimir Paka to the Prime Minister for exceeding the service authority of the head of the office of the Obukhiv District State Administration of the Kyiv Region. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the establishment of the property right of the State to the Children's Centre “Youth Guard” in Odessa. Mr Vladimir EŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Thunder of the Uman district of Cherkas. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister for the reconstruction of the water supply in Lugansk. The Minister of Environmental Protection of the Environment, Vladimir ZAITZ, is the Minister of Environmental Protection for a critical situation in the operation of the solid household waste range in the province of Korstosiv. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the 2000 - 2005 floods and the provision of assistance to the inhabitants of the village of Rostoky in the region of Cnernowec. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Head of the holdingmeine Foundation, on the problems of the functioning of the fishing industry and the violations of the legislation of the Open Shareholders’ Association “Hersonribgosp”. MICILI NOČENKA to the Prime Minister in connection with the formal review of the MP’s appeal regarding the use of military property in the city of Deaf Sum district. Mr. KARMAZINA to the Prime Minister to ensure the realization of the right to social and economic protection of the families of members of the Kyiv garrison forces through the acquisition of state housing, in connection with the removal from the dormitories whose status has been changed to housing in accordance with the management of the Kyiv City State Administration. Valentina LANDIKA to the Prime Minister on the non-admission of the current Code of the Master. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister for failure to comply with the law on the recovery of benefits to war veterans for the free provision of immunological and medical supplies, free travel on interdisciplinary routes and extended housing loans. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the creation of a special government commission and for the allocation of funds for the testing of hazardous areas in the area produced by the Solotwinese Solar System of the Zakartat region. Oleg ZARUBINSKI AND VADIM GUROVA to the Prime Minister for further clarification on the information provided by the Head of the Holdingin Foundation during the speech at the Supreme Council on 20 October 2005. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTERS FOR THE FUNDING OF THE AGRICULTURAL SOCIAL SERVICES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the creation of normal living conditions for residents of the Lounačarska street in Kirovograd. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General for lack of information on the registration and prosecution of a criminal case. Alexia BABURIN and Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Head of State Administration on illegal property agreements at the Foros sanatorium in the village of Foros of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General on the legality of the release from office as director of the National Museum in Lviv and the search for missing copies. Mr JuriyaSOLOTATANA to the Attorney General for ignoring the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office’s Office’s violations of the law in relations with Aeroworld. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for the violation of the rights and legitimate interests of foreign investors, the obstruction by officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Donetsk area of the investigation of fraud and illegal economic activity. Eugene FYLINDASHA to the Attorney General, Kyiv City’s Head, for ensuring the rule of law by the Pecher District State Administration of Kiev. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Attorney General for violating the Ministry of Economics' coworkers. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General's Office, Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the legality of the transfer to the lease of “Karier No.1” in the village of Shilovka Zinkowski district of Poltava. Andrija SCHOOL to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the case of the capture of the film complex “Kino Art House Odessa”. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the Attorney General for improper investigation of a criminal case committed by a violation of the authority and falsification of documents by officials of the Fund for Privatization of Municipal Property of the Chevchenkov district of Kiev. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport and the relationship with regard to the legality of the appointment of the Head of the State Enterprise, the “Herson Seaport”. Yulia IOFFE to the Attorney General, Ministry of Health for the violation of the health legislation and the work of the Open Shareholder Company of Komsomolsk. Leonida GRAČ to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Defence, regarding the illegal formation of state property rights for objects belonging to the Simferopol Officers ’ House. Mr. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General, Head of the Volin District State Administration, regarding violations of legislation and State standards of construction in the cities of the Volin region. Mr Vojša to the Attorney General for violating the Law on All-Ukrainian and Local Referendums by the officials of the Zurupina District Council of the Hersonian Region. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General for the criminal activity of individual officers of the Tax Police of the State Tax Inspectorate of the Pecher Region in Kiev and the Deputy Prosecutor of the Yarozenka District. LILIA GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General regarding the excess of authority and official authority on the signs of crime by officials of the Sevijerodonec City Council. Georgia BUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of laws by some officials of the Volin Prosecutor’s Office. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Head of the Supreme Court, on the objectivity of the law enforcement and judicial authorities of the Hersonian Criminal Procedure for the murder of a minor. Valery KELESTIN to the Attorney General for delaying the prosecution of the Jewish district of Lviv in the criminal investigation of the Director of the State Agro-industry “Dominant” of the Open Shareholder Society “Hodorian Meat Association”. Anatoly of the Writer General to the Attorney General, Minister of Defence for the restructuring of the Saxon Central Military Clinic, the Pyrogov Ministry, and the release of workers. GEORGIA LIKELY to the Attorney General, the Head of the Wynnick district government, for the removal of a citizen from his apartment and the exclusion from the list of persons who exercise the right to housing. Jury DYDENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Environmental Protection, on the abuse of the transfer into the long-term use of forest management of the State Forest Fund and the inclusion in the data of the contracting authority of the public importance of “Racinska dacha” of the Mikolai region of the “Thinkers and Fishermen of Woznesenska”. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request regarding the illegal involvement of the BSB in the activities of the state-owned enterprise “Kyiva Aviation Company Airway”. Eugen KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General regarding the situation that resulted from the careless use of land and water funds by the Open Shareholder Association “Kriničanski Ribgosp” in the village of Svetlogirska Kriničan district of the Dnipropetrov region. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General on the illegal possession by a private entrepreneur of the premises of the Kharkiv State University of Art of Kotlarevski. Yulia IOFFE to the Attorney General, Head of the holdingmeine Foundation for Remuneration Debt for 2002-2005 for the employees of the company “Znamyan Sugar Company” in the Kirovgrad region and the threat of bankruptcy. Mr. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General, Head of the Luhansk District Public Administration, on unlawful decisions taken by the Severerodonet City Council. Gregory KALETNIKA to the Attorney General on the criminal liability of officials of the “Vinciablenergo Share Company” and the Vinnitsky District Public Administration in connection with the falsification of tax reporting. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on political persecution of citizens and gross violation of the legislation on the work of the Kamyan-Dniprovsk Rajdrajd. A group of MPs to the Secretary of the RNB regarding information on President Viktor Yushchenk's meeting with the head of the Central Intelligence Department of the United States. [[RETURN, PANASIAN, DRY]] Topics of the meeting and possible threat to Ukraine’s national security Jurya CARMAZINA to the Secretary of the RNB and Defence, Head of the Board, Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Administration for the systematic abuse of messages by the Prosecutor's Office of the Darnicki district of Kiev and Head of the Tax Police Department of the State Tax Inspectorate in the Darnicki district. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of State, Kyiv City Head, regarding the violation of the rights of the territorial community of the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv in connection with the construction of a high - altitude building on Hmelnicke Street. Alexander MASSENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the situation in the Orgitsky district post office as a result of the reorganization process. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Ministry of Defense for the Commercialization of the Mukatov Garrison House of Officers, which is widely handed over to a public organization. Larissa VACHENKO to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Head of the State Road Service for the construction of a road in the village of Tarasovka Kyivo-Svetoshin district of Kiev. John GAVRILUK to the Minister of Justice, Head of State Customs, for failing to execute the court’s decision on the renewal of Yuri Delilcek in charge of Ravo’s customs office. Paul MATWEIENKA to the Ministry of Finance to provide funds to complete the construction of the school in the village of Ravsk Jovkow district of Lviv district. Mr. Alexander Goluba to the Minister of Defence for the promotion of the status of a member of the armed forces, separate categories of citizens. Vladimir STUPAK to the Minister of State of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Ministry of Environment and Environmental Protection, on the threat to the environmental safety of the northern regions of the Chernig region. Vladimir YAVORISKY to the Minister of Defense for Unconscionable Investigation of the Special Commission of the Ministry for the Murder of Tank Soldiers in the Right Teaching Center and the efforts of the Command to avoid liability for criminal negligence. FIXA to the Ministry of Education and Science, Head of the Czernigow District Administration, on the payment of salaries to employees of educational institutions in the town of Nižina. Ms. Aleksandra KARENKA to the Minister of Justice on the grounds of failure to execute the court’s decision by the state executive service of Shevchenkow District Department of Justice of Zaporozhye. Valeria BORZOVA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison for the establishment of additional train stops in the village of Kostriživka and the village of Werenchanka Zastavnovský district of Cherniewec region. The aunts of Bachtjevo to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the amendment of Article 57 of the State Budget 2006 Act. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Justice on the gravity of the court’s decision. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Education and Science on the inclusion of the Constantine Region of the Donetsk Region in the 2006 National Programme for the Development and Functioning of the Ukrainian Language. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the constitutional right of a citizen to legal protection and compensation for moral harm according to the court’s decision. Anatoly of the Writer’s Office to the Minister of Justice concerning the failure of the court’s decision by the State’s executive service of the Kodim District Department of Justice of the Odessa Region. SERGEANT TO THE Ministry of Transport and Communications, Head of Hmelnicka District Administration, for the provision of transport connections between remote villages and district and district centers. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison for violating the deadline for a parliamentary inquiry into the settlement of intercity communication with Transnistria. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Lviv Regional Public Administration for the provision of the Education Department of the Brdovian District State Administration by buses under the State’s “School Bus” programme. Group of Deputies to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison on the inappropriate response to a parliamentary request regarding the regulation of the legal statute of the Kyiv College of Liaison. [[Taran, KORG, SAS]] FIXA to the Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the level of material and technical support for the Fastew School of Public Education No. 10. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase of medical equipment for the Friendly City Hospital No. 1 of the Donetsk Region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Head of the Kiev State Administration, the first deputy to the Biloczerkian City Head, for the payment of arrears from wages and further financing of the activities of the Bilocerkow House of Organic and Chamber Music. Mr. Vladimir CIBULK, acting as Head of the Lviv City Council for the unsatisfactory work of the Lviv Municipal Enterprise and the Housing and Utilities Departments of the District Administrations. Michaela RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the construction of a square on the street of Truth by Alex-Bud. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE HEAD OF THE ZHITOMYRMAL REGIONAL GOVERNMENT FOR THE GASIFICATION OF PARHOMANK’S STREET IN THE VILLAGE OF THE BIG KOROVINCI OF THE SPECIFIC REGION OF JITOMY. Gennady RUDENKA to the Head of the Court of Appeal of Poltava District for violations committed by the District Court of October in Poltava during the examination of the civil suit of Plujnik to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and his administration in the Poltav region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the Pension Fund on the correctness of the retirement of a participant in the liquidation of an accident in Chernobyl’s AES resident of Yagotin. Larissa POLACOVA and Viktor MUSIJAKI to the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court for the delay in the referral to the Supreme Court of the case concerning the privatisation of the Open Shareholders Association of the Nicopolian Ferrospion Plant. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the elimination of environmental hazards by submerging the village of Mirne Bilayiv region. Deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission on ensuring the objectivity and independence of the CLTC. [[ZUGILSKI, BAISAROV, SCUDAR]] Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of Montenegro’s District State Administration for the transfer from residential buildings in Chernig’s Public Center for Mutual Assistance to AIDS Patients. Mr. Vladimir Zajtaj to the Head of the Dejmajne Foundation, Attorney General, on the illegal eviction and deprivation of residence of residents of the open stock company Černovievice Sugar Plant. To the President of the National Academy of Sciences, Vladimir YAVORIYS has been commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct scientific research in the territory of the former Inter-Igorian Monastery and to develop an archaeological work program in the Inter-Igorium for the purpose of granting him the status of the National Reserve. LEFT BIRUKA to the Central Election Commission on the non-compliance with the Constitution and the Law “On the Election of People’s Deputies” by the political party “Regions of Ukraine” and its leader, Viktor Janukovic. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Head of the Kiev State Administration, the first deputy of the Biloczerk City Head to arrange for the traffic at a dangerous intersection in the city of Bila Church. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the procurator of the Vinnitsk district for possible abuses in the formation of ownership rights to the land by teachers of the Žedanów School of Hmylnický district. VICTOR ANTEMJUKA to the executive responsibility of the Vinnick City Head for not allowing construction on the street of a construction site on the street of the Soil of the Sponge Factory. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for admission to the communal property of the territorial community of Kyiv of the dormitories on the streets of Kirilo-Methodijska and Gali Timothy. To the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Tamari is asked about the apartment issue of secondary school teacher No.224. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakartat region for the brutal violation of the civil rights of Roma in the village of Volika Dobrono Uzhgrad. Thus, honourable national deputies, 116 parliamentary inquiries have been made. The factions. Communist 26, Regions 14, People's Party 7, Our Ukraine 8, BUT-6, SPI-5, UNODC-6, SDPU-2, National Block-2, People's Trust 1, Reforms and Orders-3, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs-2, National Movement of Ukraine 2, non-fractional-16. Let's go from factions to groups. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u2	Turn off the microphone! Igor Šurma, come in, please. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u3	Igor Šurma. The parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine states that the economic indicators of the political responsibilities achieved by the team of “oranges” during the year of their rule show that Ukraine is on the verge of a deep economic downturn. [[united]] The process was added and unheard of by the scale of the release of experts. The President himself did the math, proudly reporting on 18 and then 20,000 civil servants released. In turn, the faction claims that the number of layoffs is a real measure of incompetence and non-professionalism after which. Then, out of the open hand, the heads of state took power. For the time being, the gains of special orange rule have been recorded by the State Department. Real GDP growth rates in Ukraine declined 5.6 times over the period. Even Russia, which was hopelessly lagging behind Ukraine last year at the rate of GDP growth, is now ahead of Ukraine twice. Ukraine’s trade balance in comparison with last year’s over 20 billion dollars has deteriorated. In addition, we note that positive developments in external trade in goods, achieved in Ukraine in 2004, are now completely lost. And this is the direct result of a policy of war that the authorities have opened up with domestic entrepreneurs, mostly exporters. The characteristic result of the chosen policy is a significant reduction in exports to countries of the European Union, which have become even more closed to Ukrainian goods than to the great "orange" revolution. In the background of the Euro-Integration Course announced by the authorities, such results are particularly indicative. It is known that the European Union will never give rise to the status of a country whose economy is in ruins. Nobody needs the weak. Under the conditions laid down, the policy of power is completely contrary to the declared European integration of Ukraine. The government is doing its best to make Ukraine’s entry into the European Union impossible. Another explanation of the abuse of power over the domestic economy is difficult to find. The reality of the intentions of a valid statement made by the Ukrainian authorities in the EU is clear, hence the statements made by Europeans who directly overturn Ukraine's Euro-Integration Future. Maybe that's kind of specific and that's the way of power to the one economic space where Ukraine can actually realize itself as a state. But that's not what we're going to do. Ukraine was and will become a strong, self-sufficient state with a stable economy of growth. It's an axiom. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party states that the situation in Ukraine's economy is a direct consequence of the actual self-removal of executive power from the state administration process. [[united]] All actions of power are directed exclusively to and subordinated to the electoral process. The orange desire of the authorities to assume a parliamentary mandate is evidence of a lack of recognition, a recognition of their inability to cope with the processes that are currently in the economy. The slow desire of ministers and other officials at all costs to move to Parliament's session hall is a banal attempt to escape responsibility for the damage done to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u4	Gregory Bondarenko, microphone, please. The People's Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u5	Gregory Bondarenko Block Volodymyr Litvina. Dear colleagues, I have recently called from this rostrum for the Cabinet of Ministers to renew the ethanol state programme and to hold government officials responsible for destroying an important state plan. Unfortunately, I was not heard, so I had to go back to the problem. Let me remind you, it's about using your alcohol as a fuel. The world has been doing this for three decades. And it's not just doing, there's 40% of cars with bioengines in Brazil. In the second city of the United States. The third world producer of benzidoms is China. Today’s American president declares: “U.S. energy independence must be based on its own renewable energy, primarily on ethanol.” That's how the state works, the world leader. What about Ukraine? How do we protect energy independence in this direction? As has already been said, the 2000 Ethanol program was shut down. And the alcohol factories that were to unite for this purpose and form a special enterprise are partially looted, and the rest are looted. It's a similar situation with powers outside the program that are already producing bio-houses. In Ukraine, eight spirit factories have organized such production. At least today they can produce 60,000 tons of produce per year. And they're capable of releasing 280,000 tons. In fact, they don't produce anything. This is explained by the lack of interest in oil refineries or automobiles in mixed gasoline. But the European Union solved the problem simply. He required that biofuels be used in the total amount of petrol at first two percent and then almost six percent. Why can't we do that? As for NCDs, they need to be interested. The U.S. continues to reduce the cost of gasoline and ethanol. In closing, I want to say this. The introduction of biofuels does not require any budget expenditure at this stage. On the contrary, with the full load and power of eight liquor factories, more than a billion dollars a year can go into the budget. Next. You don't need any reconstruction, no. Automobile engines. What prevents government action? It's hard to understand. If it's a quiet anti-government breath, it's time to kick it out of your hands. Please consider my statement as a request by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u6	Paul Sulkowski, microphone, please. “Ukraine regions”. Prepare Michael Sithini.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u7	Declaration by the faction and the Party of the Regions, the “Regions of Ukraine” on political repression of power against the Rector of the National Academy of State Taxation of Ukraine, Peter Melnik. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. For 10 months now, the head of the U.S.A., Alexander Kyreyev, has abused not only common sense but all morals and laws. Otherwise, as political persecution, his illegal actions cannot be called. This is especially true of the repression against the Rector of the National Academy of Taxation of Ukraine, Peter Melnik. Peter Melnik has been in charge of this teaching facility in Irpen for 14 years. Over the years, under his leadership, the average technology grew up at the National Academy and became one of the best universities in Ukraine. According to instructions from today’s DPA head, Alexander Kyreyev, the director of the Academy, Peter Melnik, has been repeatedly examined by the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Board of Auditors, and so forth. But there were no violations of the law by Peter Melnik. This is reflected in the answers received from these structures. In defense of his rights and justice, Peter Melnik won claims to defend his rights and against the illegal actions of the Head of the DPA 7 of the courts of various institutions. The matter was that the Department of State Executive Services of the Ministry of Justice had forced the DPA Head to comply with the ruling of the Kjev Cave Justice on the restoration of Peter Melnik as Rector of the Academy. However, the following day after the order to renew the Head of the DPA, Alexander Kiriev, head of the DPA, issued an order for Peter Melnik to be released on December 16th. And again with the motivations drawn to the ears. This time, it seems like a violation of the charter of the academy, which was found to be in use for the training of professionals in 2004 under special taxation. In addition, the final order of the Head of the DPA of December 16 on the release of Peter Melnik from work is a gross violation of the law “On the Election of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine”, part 2 of article 73, which prohibits the dismissal of a candidate from the National Deputies, because on December 16th, the Central Electoral Commission registered the election list of the Party of the Regions, which included Peter Melnik, a candidate of the People’s Deputies. The faction of the Party of the “Ukraine Region” requires the President of Ukraine to immediately resign Alexander Kiriev from his post as Head of the DPA Ukraine for numerous violations of current legislation and calls on the authorities to stop the practice of political repression. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask for a registered order number 8628, to put her to a vote and to take a decision on that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u8	When the committee considers it in its proper order. The Supreme Council doesn't have a fire team. They've been introduced today, and he's looking into it today. Come on, let's go through the procedure. Procedure, please. Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Party. Microphone, please. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u9	Michael Sithina, 74th, Carpathian, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, yesterday at a press conference by the President of Ukraine, commenting on the dismissal of over 18,000 managers and officials, noted the following. You mourn this number, I don't mourn it, a few thousand, he said, not a limit, because we have several hundred thousand civil servants. The statement is particularly striking at the backdrop of a tragic event that recently struck the village. The principal area of Zacarpathia. On December 9, the director of the school, Illu Mihajlovich Volosin, was buried here. A many - year - old educator wrote down life accounts. The reason is typical of the post of revolutionary Ukraine. The Director voted in past presidential elections for the wrong candidate. It lasted many months and ended with the family’s mourning, mourning, and weeping for the former and present. Not surprisingly, the death of one person is a tragedy, several is already a statistic, and in good offices it is common to read statistics. Otherwise, by explaining the actions of the head of the Zacarpathian State Administration, Mr. Hawaii, who recently warned three more school principals of bad consequences if they did not come out of the National Party. These leaders were clearly told that they could find drugs and that their children would be in trouble. Dear colleagues, I and my faction colleagues have received many appeals from citizens who suffer persecution for political reasons. Usually, people who had no relation to the organization of the electoral process did not take advantage of the position of service, but they had and have their own beliefs. They paid for the job: Chief Doctor of the Mukatov District Children's Hospital Yuri Kohan, Director of the Oxana Mazer Gallery, Director of Palanok Castle, Deserved Culture Actor Vasil Tsigak, Head of the Mukatov Department of Postal Liaison, Mikhailo Petrichko, and others. Dear National Deputies! The new leadership of the Zakarpatski “Krishta” today grossly and cynically violates Ukraine's law, blocking the distribution of deliveries to subscribers of central and district publications, such as the newspaper “Silska Time”, “Narodna”, “RIO” and “Tribuna”. And this is because today's authorities are constantly talking about the lack of use of administrative resources in the election campaign. The People's Party faction is concerned about the fact that people are being persecuted for political reasons, the use of authority in places of narrow-party interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u10	Oleg Belarus, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, microphone, please prepare Vitalia Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u11	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today’s last week of the 2005 session and obviously there is a need to think about what lies ahead for us in 2006. It is said at the highest level in Ukraine that the prospects are good. But there are a number of serious and important questions. When they say that Ukraine's economy has calmed down, I'm worried. What tranquillity can be said when and after a hundred days of activity of the new government, the pace of economic growth declines and we gradually enter the economic stagnation lane. I have this feeling that with this leadership, the economy can not only calm down, but the economy in a healthy sense can calm down. This is illustrated by the 2006 budget. This budget went through an unprecedentedly small amount of 226 votes, and there are doubts that these voices are strong. The position of our faction, the BUT faction, was clear, clear, and consistent. We have never voted against the budget. But we couldn't help but take responsibility for this budget, which reflects in the best possible way the growth of the economy's Tinnitus, the very low, low-income share of 25 billion. We could not support it when national money spreads through various funds and direct consumers, when social orientation is betrayed, when it is not even provided at the minimum of science, health care, education, disability, Afghans, and children of war. And in the end, there wasn't even an article vote, and they took a second and a third right away. And we expect that when the budget allocations go through, the local self - government controls will be dramatically low. We propose to create a special socio-economic commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u12	Vital mother, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Please, the microphone. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u13	Vitaly Majko, a party of industrialists and entrepreneurs in Ukraine It's a faction statement. We, the factions of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, have been approached by pensioners working in enterprises with particularly harmful and difficult working conditions, more than 950 people, and on behalf of all pensioners, have been asked to help resolve the very important issue of pensions. The fact is that while working in factories, mines, chemicals, and other areas with harmful working conditions, while performing their duties, people were given the right to guarantee retirement from the State at an age on appropriate tax terms. By fulfilling their responsibilities, people looked forward to social protection at retirement age. However, the introduction of the Ukrainian Act on Compulsory State Pension Insurance, other legal and regulatory acts, has led to the fact that all the high salaries, the coefficients included in the accrual of pensions have been virtually nullified and the calculated pensions of citizens have been shown below the subsistence minimum. We industrialists understand government measures to address the problem of social protection of pensioners as low-income citizens. But we cannot agree with the comparison when pensioners, veterans of work working with harmful conditions, receive about the same pensions as those of ordinary workers. The Ukrainian Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is calling on the Cabinet of Ministers to develop measures aimed at increasing the level of pension insurance for Ukrainian citizens working in firms with difficult and harmful working conditions through the introduction of adjustment coefficients and the development of proposals for changes to the current Ukrainian pension legislation. Such changes can correct existing social injustices in the country and improve the standard of living of one of the most vulnerable groups — pensioners who have worked under difficult working conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u14	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, please. Get ready for Mikoli Porowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u15	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Statement by the People's Movement of Ukraine. December 22 will mark the next anniversary of Ukrainian diplomacy, which is the main card of our country far beyond Ukraine and the main forpost for the promotion of Ukraine’s national interests. It is gratifying to note that, at the beginning of independence, the protection of national interests became the main argument when decisions were made. As motorists, we are well aware of the efforts made by young Ukrainian diplomats from the early days of independence to recognize the state of Ukraine by foreign nations. It was the diplomats working with the Ukrainian deputies of the Supreme Council who were able to destroy the SND Treaty for Ukraine, which Ukraine, with the easy hand of Krawczuk, tried to force into the updated Soviet Union. For the People's Movement of Ukraine, it is a matter of particular pride that immediately two ministers of foreign affairs of Ukraine, the current head of the People's Movement of Ukraine, Boris Tarasyuk and Hennaday Udovenko, who headed the UN General Assembly, are joining the ranks of the People's Movement of Ukraine. The motorists welcome the courageous gesture of more than 500 diplomats who stood on the side of the people during the orange revolution and supported democracy. At the same time, it is totally unacceptable for us to have a situation in which the previous authorities have sent diplomats. The past regime has turned the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs into a tool for bleaching its vulnerable and sometimes simply anti-Ukrainian actions. The Ukrainian People's Movement faction claims that diplomats should pursue their professional activities rather than bleach the regime of Kuchma and Yanuković. Only after the orange revolution did Ukrainian diplomats get the opportunity to fully defend Ukraine’s national interests with foreign nations. Today, Ukraine is a desirable partner for the entire democratic world. Ukraine has finally become consistent on European and Euro-Atlantic integration issues, which are already yielding very concrete results. Our diplomacy is not a vassal or a chastity, or a singer of any neighbouring state. We believe that Ukraine's national interests can only be realized through independent and professional diplomacy. Our task is to preserve the positive trend that has taken place in Ukraine's foreign political power. Today, diplomats can confidently put Ukraine’s priorities in the outer arena. Such diplomacy is actually Ukrainian, and it has the power to build Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u16	Mikola Porovski, National Trust MP, microphone, please turn it on. Is there a Mikola Porowski? Please. Prepare the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u17	MP “Rebirth”, Republic Christian Party. Statement by the “Rebirth” MP on the situation in the oil and gas sector. Ukrainian-Russian relations in the field of oil and gas calculations are the most topical issue of the day. This relationship is regulated until 2009 by a series of valid intergovernmental agreements, which state that Ukraine is providing transit of Russian gas to Europe through its territory, and the Russian side guarantees transit costs of natural gas, while the cost of transit and the cost of gas delivered are interconnected. Today, the Russian side wants to change the basic arrangements with Ukraine, with its representatives making baseless demands for an increase in gas prices to $160 or more per thousand meters. The rapid rise in gas prices, as required by the Russian side, can significantly reduce the income of the 2006 State budget, affect the price of production and the cost-effectiveness of production of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian enterprises, and significantly reduce the welfare of people, especially pensioners and other vulnerable populations, as 50 per cent of gas is 30 billion cubic metres, belonging to the utility and construction sectors. And in these circumstances, due to the May-to-May zero duty on imports into Ukraine of petroleum products, the share of imports from Russia of petrol increased from two to 20 percent this year, and as a result, half of Ukrainian oil refineries are easy. And only the annulment of the Supreme Council at last week's zero bet gives hope of improving the situation in this area. Uncertainty in price and gas supply over several months has a negative impact on the economic situation as it threatens the conclusion of economic agreements. Ukraine’s demand for natural gas, especially oil, will long be met by imports. Therefore, the government needs to take a number of rational organizational steps to improve the use of gas. First of all, the maximum economic justification for replacing natural gas with coal and peat, increasing the efficiency of the use of gas, with the prioritization of all gas saving technologies, and now a reverse process, because the gas capacity of the internal gross product has increased by 54 percent, while the total energy efficiency is 42. Compared to the previous year, gas consumption has increased by two billion cubic metres. Maximum economic justification is needed for the use of coal methane, small gas deposits, secondary local resources, and the replacement of natural gas for Ukrainian energy. The personal responsibility of gas - transport managers needs to be established, since the loss of a gas network annually amounts to seven billion cubic metres of gas. The Renewal Group states that the implementation of these conditions will solve a number of current economic and social problems in Ukraine. We welcome you and the entire Ukrainian people with the coming year of 2006, we wish you well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u18	George Buiko, from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, please microphone. Valerius Assadchev next
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u19	George Buiko, the All - Ukrainian Union of Intelligence for Socialism, a faction of Communists. The Communist faction has always worked and worked to get the country out of a spiritual and civil crisis, including by making great efforts to produce social radio and television. Unfortunately, the issue has not yet been resolved, and the situation on television is only getting worse. It has become known that today’s president of the National Television Company, Vitaly Dokalenko, is depriving the audience of the latest intellectual programs. Obviously, without understanding the fundamental difference between commercial and national air. It's a planned, actual distinction between scientific and cultural cycle programs. Even so, individual UT-1 programs dedicated to art, theatre, literature, film, like "The Magical Panorama", "Theatrical Apology", "Derkalo" – are to be summed up to the extent of a universal program. Even worse, in fact, damaging to national broadcasts, the President's intention is to abolish scientific and cognitive programs. Now there are only two of them on UT-1: “Wows of knowledge” and “This Mysterious World”. The first one has a pre-history that starts in the '80s with experienced journalist Nadia Longach. The author’s program “This Mysterious World” by the famous writer and screenwriter Andrey Dmitruk has been around for 12 years, dedicated to both the scientific achievements of the present and the spiritual heritage of Ukraine. In this mysterious, mysterious, acute problem in history, nature, social life. And here are these two programs that are record-breaking and long-lasting, and seriously, the importance of Dokolenko is going to be eliminated. Meanwhile, the advanced part of the world’s society has long understood how important today is. The development of intelligence and creativity. Why don't the National Television go this way and try to make Ukrainian educational programs really interesting. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to you as Head of the Supreme Council and to give the necessary authority to resolve this issue in the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u20	Valerius Assadchev of the Ukrainian People’s Party is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u21	Thank you. A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, choosing between bad and worse, managed to adopt the 2006 budget, thereby addressing serious threats that could have occurred in Ukraine's economy if the budget was not adopted. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party voted in favour of this budget, taking into account improvements in local budgets, addressing the issues of supporting its own producer in the agro-industrial complex, increasing wages and pensions, social benefits, and channeling part of the budget to economic development programs. On the other hand, the 2006 budget showed problems that have already become chronic for Ukraine. Ukraine is increasingly opening borders for imported products, forgetting its own manufacturer. In the 2006 budget, this problem was particularly acute in the context of agricultural production as the most risky and least profitable. The Ukrainian People's Party has always stood out for the development of the internal market, for the support of domestic production, for the small and medium-sized businesses. Only by Motivating the work of our citizens, supporting the initiative of everyone will we be able to achieve high rates of economic growth and maintain high social standards. The policies of increasing imports and the constant expectation of large investments without developing their own production are flawed and unsuspecting. Local budgets. They have long become an asset of the State budget in Ukraine, and local authorities have proved to be entrenched by the State and hostages of the populism promises of government leaders. The Ukrainian National Party on this issue has always expressed its position on the construction of a European model of local self - government in Ukraine and, above all, the granting of financial and administrative independence to local authorities. All of this is reflected in a new draft of the Budget Code, which has been deliberately braked for almost three years by both government and parliament. Both in the manufacturing field and in the management of local affairs should be motivated by the results of their own work. Finally, the procedures for considering the budget, and more specifically, their absence also lead to serious economic distortions. The massive adoption of laws of a populist nature without being discussed in detail, the exact calculation, results in obligations on expenditure that are not secured by the country’s economy. The steady rise in such a deficit only causes inflation to unfold and eventually devalue the bracelets. The budget is a mirror of economics, a reflection of social processes. The Ukrainian People's Party proposes to abandon the policy of the budget to the budget under the heading “And somehow it will” and to initiate systemic reforms that will solve problems that have already become chronic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u22	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Reforms and Order” faction, please give your speech. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u23	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Society lies before the elections. The numerous statements made by the Heads of State that there will be no administrative resources this time are unfortunately not supported by the actual facts that can be cited in dozens of places. In particular, I want to share what can be seen today in the capital of Ukraine, where there seems to have been major events of the orange revolution, where there may not seem to be an administrative resource. First and foremost, it should be noted that the new authorities have failed to bring responsibility to those who have created lawlessness, who have broken the electoral system, who have broken people’s hands, physically and morally forcing them to vote for someone they did not want. Today they're all free, they're included in electoral lists of different, and today they're dictated again by the same rules of the game. But there are local leaders at the level of self-governance who see the word “self-governance” as the right to self-governance, not taking into account any laws or regulations that we approve here with you. This is happening in Kiev. In particular, the first thing we can do today is the decision of the Kyiv City Council imposed by the city's Omelchenk, the council that is actually under its fifth, and this decision testifies to the prohibition of any political activity in the central part of the city. Literally, the following is written: To ban the holding of rallies, demonstrations, any action, the display of flags, tents in the central part of the city, and areas adjacent to it. That is, Alexander Alexander once again recommends political activity on the Truhan Island or at the Teak Stadium. At the same time, the Kiev City Press, which has been allocated from the city budget, that is, from the pockets of the kyans of nearly 40 million dollars left, is actively celebrating the Kiev City Council and the future mayoral candidate, who, regardless of his retirement age, I want to continue my activities to the physical state that was characteristic of Brezhenev and Chernenko. What I'm saying is that there's been a lot of opposition going on, and lately tents have been cleared, flags in all parts of Kiev, wherever the parties that don't take Omelchenk for a third term. Financial resources are under way, for example, two weeks ago, the Kiev City Chief of Transportation did not leave 35 apartments in different offices. This action is not based on any plans or anything else. If we, the central government, the central legislative body, do not respond to these things, then we will get the largest administrative resource from the new authority, which is now programmed, particularly in the form of commissions. We know that many parties behind the back of those who could actually submit candidates that would be principled are making a bid for city authority. Thus, a commission will be formed, which is now, what 14 decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u24	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please, the microphone. And Ivancho will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u25	Statement by the parliamentary parties of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko made clear statements about political reform, which according to the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which, by the way, he himself voted, comes into force on January 1st and will finally be approved after the parliamentary elections. The president sees the danger of reforming that the authorities in Ukraine are going, he said, to the most unstable institution, the Supreme Council. Although the current system of power has demonstrated the greatest instability, 13 governments have changed, including the new President, twice. Yushchenko blames reform that has not even taken effect because it does not serve either Ukraine or the Ukrainians. Moreover, for some reason he felt that the reform had been adopted in secret, without much discussion. In this regard, the President is going to address the nation from the new year. Such statements by Heads of State who are clearly viewing attempts to compromise the political upheaval cause anxiety and protest. It is not true that the constitutional reform of the Supreme Council has been adopted in secret, the content of the reform, the substance of which, from the power of one person to the authority of the people in the person of the highest authority of the people's representation, has been widely discussed by Ukrainian society and politics for many years. Its main postulates are the responsibility and accountability of power to the people, the formation of executive power by parliament, the strengthening and strengthening of the role of local self-government were published in the course of the action “For Ukraine without Cuchma”, “Resurrection, Ukraine!” and discussions in Parliament and in places with wide participation. The legal community. Viktor Andriyovich himself signed the idea of reform twice — in 2002 and in a well - known memorandum in 2003. Finally, the Ukrainian people voted on the ground for political reform. And this happened after the first round of presidential elections, when on November 6, Yushchenkom signed the treaty on voting for changes to the Constitution. And when there were no signs of civil conflict. The Socialist faction reminds us that Ukraine has earned its democratic choice and a new democratic system of power in the long-standing struggle against authoritarianism. What's even more surprising is that the President, who calls himself a proponent of Ukraine's European choice, with his new statements that essentially repeat Kuchma's many years of groundless arguments, wants to discredit reform and bring our country back to the system that has emerged in some post-Radians totalitarian security zones. The President, of course, has the right to address the nation in any way. But he must bear in mind his highest national obligation to strictly abide by the Constitution of Ukraine, which did not give him the right to oppose the democratic development of the system of power in Ukraine. Ukraine has no choice, or democracy, and this is a polytreform, or tyranny -- this is the President's one-person power, in our circumstances, essentially a monarch. Socialists believe that the President must recognize his responsibility to Ukraine and not stand on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u26	Ivan Ivancho, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Declaration by the Party's National Union of Our Ukraine on the introduction of new technologies and on the implementation of innovative and investment projects at the expense of the privatisation of “Civoristals”. Ukraine is increasingly integrating itself into the world economy. We are increasingly experiencing severe competition from other nations. For the Ukrainian economy, therefore, the issue of the introduction of new effective technologies for development is of paramount importance. That is what the world’s leading countries are all about. The parliamentary faction of the National Union of Ukraine believes that at least 25 per cent of the money received from the sale of the ‘Cruverstals’ should be directed towards innovation and investment projects and the introduction of new technologies, as well as to support scientific and technical research that will contribute to Ukraine's economic growth. At the same time, the individual political forces of the day before the elections are eager to please the electorate at all costs and are ready to eat the money once from the privatisation of the “Criminals”. Instead, the faction “Our Ukraine” comes out of the strategic interests of the state and advocates investing part of the funds in promising programmes in various areas of the economy and, in particular, energy conservation, which are renewable. We have all come to believe that the competition for the sale of the “Criminals” has become a model of public privatization that has contributed to Ukraine's increased authority in the world. It is now important to manage effectively the funds received so that they can work for the strategic development of our economy. The Party Deputies People's Union "Our Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u28	Yes, dear fellows, we have our factions completed. There are several references to dissatisfaction with answers to parliamentary requests. Zara Katusheva, microphone, please, three minutes. Get ready for Andrew School. Zara Katusheva, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u29	Respectable People's Deputies. You remember what a difficult struggle it was recently to have people's co-conspirators identify themselves in the choice of workplaces. To date, however, the People's Deputy of Ukraine does not wish to resign from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. To my request to the President of the Supreme Council on this matter, I was answered that the Court of Appeal had examined the case and had denied its satisfaction on the grounds that the Supreme Council of Justice was on the Legal Policy Committee. Moreover, because Onopenko has taken all measures to dismiss the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. These events were in early 2004. It's the end of 2005. But Onopenko has still not resigned from the post of judge. To my further appeal to the President of the Supreme Council on the flagrant violation of the Constitution, the Committee replied that the Committee had exhausted its capacity to do so and invited me to submit a draft order to the Supreme Council for its consideration. Let me ask the President of the Supreme Council and the Chairman of the Regulatory Committee: how do you think to vote if I pass such a bill? If yes, you and Vladimir Mihajlovich, Valentin Grigoryevich, are also actors in the legislative initiative. And given that your responsibilities include combating such a sad phenomenon, you do not have to wait for my initiative in ensuring compliance with the Constitution by the Ukrainian people's representative. And if you're going to vote no, then your proposal is to submit such a bill. - nonsense. It follows from the foregoing that neither the Chairman of the Supreme Council nor the Chairman of the Committee on Rules, Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council have exhausted their capacity, and I hope that, as the people's deputies with the right to legislative initiative, they will take appropriate steps to ensure that the People's Deputy Onopenko abides by the letter and the meaning of the Basic Law of Ukraine and will indeed resign from the post of Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. My statement is considered to be a further parliamentary request to the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our speeches by MPs and factions. I ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate commission, a request for the results of the proposals made by the national MPs. A few more announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ms. Aleksandra Volodymyrovic, from the membership of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the faction of the “Region of Ukraine”. [[united]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you of the withdrawal of the National People’s Party. Anyone who has an ad, please carry it. One minute, dear colleagues, we've only been talking about this for an hour. 15 hours per procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Kirilov has made such a statement. I'll read it and I think that's enough. “Please do not consider my vote in favour of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 No8,000 in second reading and in total December 20, 2005 at 12 p.m. 51 minutes, because I did not vote in favour of this bill, was absent in the session hall and was in my constituency, why I have sufficient official confirmations. Please give an official commission to the regulatory committee to deal with this situation. The only thing I can do is add to the transcript and think that you've gotten the moral satisfaction out of it. Because, unfortunately, there is no right to vote and no right to respond under the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Moreover, my fellow Members, we have two more statements from people who voted in favour of the budget, not cards. So let's divide now. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to calm down. Let's get to it. Three minutes. Please sign up. Three minutes. Please sign up. Zara Katusheva, Communist faction. Then Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u31	The word of the gmyre, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u32	Sergei Gmira, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u33	Yesterday, on live radio "Era" in the broadcast "The First Person" there was just an unprecedented fact. The Minister of Justice and Fellowship of the Unregistered List of Our Ukraine, Sergey the Head of State, allowed himself to call on voters not to vote for communists because they did not support the budget. Even the child is clearly aware that such actions by the supreme jurist of our State are the grossest use of administrative resources. I therefore address President Yushchenko. Victor Andreevich, take this gentleman off his post during the day, otherwise I'll assume that all your allegations of non-use of administrative resources are a lie. And I will not respect you not only as President, but as a man who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u34	Katerina Vaschuk, People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, there was a budget vote yesterday. We all understand very well that it is impossible for the government and the people of Ukraine to do so today because there is no such budget that will satisfy all the necessary expenses that are essential in our Ukrainian state. And yesterday it was also a compromise. Better to have a budget than his mother. Who works for the Supreme Council for more than a year knows that very well. What can happen may be a situation where there is no budget. So today, all the power, the Supreme Council said its word yesterday. And considering that most of the suggestions are good
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u36	Yes, Cemistranko, “Our Ukraine”, please. You don't? Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u37	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on the basis of the principles of solidarity that have always existed in the army of the Air Force, please pass the word to the colleague Kirillov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u38	Please, Kirill. Microphone, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u39	Dear friends, I believe yesterday's criminal procedure was the adopted criminal budget. Neither the people's deputies nor their electorates see any sense in making this budget work. This budget does not solve any problems; it only exacerbates them. If we're talking about living with this budget better than without a budget, I think it's the other way around. The Cabinet of Ministers is better off working for another week, and we're going to accept the budget more normally with you. I would like to consider my statement to be an official request to the President not to sign this budget, because all next year I will spend in court, I will still sue him, I will still abolish him as illegal. And there are two more statements that people have voted, no less people who are still just afraid to say it, that they didn't vote either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u40	Thank you. I think the people's honourable deputies, in order to evaluate the budget, have to read it first. [[Applause]] Then we need to prepare a commission, a budget proposal. And you just don't need to show your hysteria. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been exchanging thoughts and moving on to work. But I would like to emphasize one thing. With the launch of a pre-election campaign from the authorities, there has been an increase in criticism at the parliament. There's a logical conclusion. Initially criticized by the previous so-called criminal regime, the resource of such criticism is now exhausted, and it is moving to unacceptable statements to the Supreme Council. I think we should make an appropriate warning to the authorities. Because if you show and call the Supreme Council of Ukraine the most unstable institution, obviously this most unstable institution made that decision in November-December when it was considered stable. Today, when this is not convenient, it is considered unstable. I believe that we should accept the principle of an application in this regard. In order for the Supreme Council to go to the elections, to go to the elections, to go in a consolidated way, to find mutual responsibility. There is now a tendency to run a pre-election campaign based on criticism from each other, not on proposals from programmes that the Ukrainian people need. This is the level of Ukrainian politics. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the President of Ukraine to amend the Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads is being announced. The rapporteur is Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic, representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Bondarenko. I'd like to ask you, Yuri Bogdanovich, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. According to part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine returns with his proposals the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads" for review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that, in doing so, the President of Ukraine states that the holding of the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev, Sevastopol, the district, urban and so forth, that the choice of such a system is, of course, a matter of political relevance, but he believes that, under the current circumstances, this can cause a substantial and artificial exacerbation of the political situation in the state, complicate the conditions for the further development of local self-government and the solution of the many current socio-economic challenges facing our society and which are called upon to solve local self-government. In this regard, the President considers it necessary to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the consideration of this vital issue for the future Ukrainian State. At the same time, the President, realizing that this issue is difficult in a political way, does not include this in the proposals for a law that is considered the Presidential veto. And so, by demonstrating the need for local council elections to be conducted under a sufficiently legal framework, he proposes a series of clarifications on the formulation of the rules of law that have the character of technical refinements and the refinement of legal technology. The President states that, to that extent, since it is about ensuring respect for the Constitution of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and the citizen, he, as head of state, is willing to do whatever is necessary to establish the real peoples of Ukraine, to ensure that they are prepared in the shortest terms and to harmonize with the subjects of the legislative process of the laws necessary for the conduct of elections in Ukraine in full compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, taking into account better international experience. Thus, taking into account the extreme urgency of the matter, the President requested that the bill be considered in as strict a time as possible. And I would like to emphasize that the urgent consideration of this bill today is a testimony to the close cooperation of the President and the Supreme Council in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u42	Yuri Bogdanovich, thank you for clearly formulating the positions of the President of Ukraine. Vladimir Bondarenko of the Committee, please head of the Committee's Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u43	Dear friends, the proposed bill takes into account the President's proposals and the refinements that have already taken place at a committee meeting at the request of individual national deputies. It's about the fact that the bill or the law that we passed was adopted by him in a mixed way, in some places, he needed clarification. And these clarifications were logical, and most of the time we agreed with them. You all have this big, this table on your hands that you're given, where you're given, what the position of the bill has been changed and where we agree with them, where we don't agree. We can now choose a path or a detailed consideration of each of these paragraphs, or vote on this bill as, with the changes that have been made, that is to adopt it as a new law and send it to the President for signature. Such a decision by the committee, in principle, and approved recommending that the Supreme Council adopt this law with amendments made on the basis of the submission of the President and during the meeting of the Committee. It's about the fact that here the individual positions that are in this law need, in fact, refinements, particularly obviously, we didn't exactly make a statement in part 1 of the President's proposal, where it was about a few villages or population voting, taking part in the voting of members of the community. And here is a perfectly correct proposal to replace that this is the vote of members of the community of cities, villages, villages of several villages that have been merged into the rural community, not having a central administrative unit, because in Ukraine today, unfortunately, there are no boundaries of administrative units that are clearly established, such as villages, villages and cities, or any clear more or less unifications, but the communities are, they are. So the voting community is clearly defined as a community. This change is obviously logical. These are some of the clarifications that apply to the Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol, such as the introduction. Some clarifications refer to definitions when the positions of individual articles refer to the election of deputies and do not refer to the election of rural, rural, and urban heads. So this allows us to formulate this law more clearly. I'd like to draw attention to a couple of positions from the transitional positions that are listed here. The point is that we, now that we had the President's proposal and the law and the reality of our lives, that is, yesterday we ended up submitting all proposals to commissions under the old law. And they were done in haste because they were waiting for the new law to be signed, with new terms. In fact, he did not enter into force. So obviously we need to move some
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u44	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u45	That's really why, because here, in transitional positions, we're just saying that the territorial election committees are formed not later than 75 days before the elections. That's what we have to do today. Because otherwise such commissions may not be formed in connection with the terms defined by the old law. Such a decision also applies to the general composition, the number of parliamentary mandates of local councils, and some councils have failed to accept the new law that has given them such opportunities. That is, to move those terms in the law that are defined in transitional positions. And I think that by adopting this law as a whole today, we will get it as a law signed by the President in the near future, and the local self-government authorities will be able to make real use of their rights and organize elections in terms that will be defined by him, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's do it this way. Look closely, please, at all the revisions. Many of these rights have the right character, the absolute majority of these rights. But there's one law, a respected colleague, that will once again provoke a parliamentary conflict with the journalistic corps. And, at the same time, the committee took this into account. The point is that we need to figure out how much time is going to be spent on advertising. And it was clearly fixed here: up to 20 percent of the time, otherwise it's going to be 40 and 50, and this standard was completely consistent with the representatives of the social organizations of the journalistic department and, in fact, with journalists. For this reason, the chairman of the committee Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich. We're going to vote separately on this amendment, and then we're going to vote on the law. Yuri Bogdanovich, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! My colleagues and I, as much as I allowed time, discussed this amendment by the President, the more they called from the TV channels and said that this amendment was agreed, that it was wrong, that it was groundless. What is it? We have clearly described in the Local Elections Act: speaking time, hourly how much advertising, and how much astronomical time. And this is in the relevant article 13, and it was all agreed upon. If, at the President's suggestion, we include a different norm, then 15 percent of the time we talk every hour without advertising, and that's what we're doing is confusing, and that is we're just leaving a definition of how much per hour. I'm asking you to look into these moments. I also think my colleagues that the law is correct in both 1 and 2 articles, and I ask you not to take pictures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Dear Sergey Makarovich! We remember very well how a month ago the Supreme Council passed a law on the provision of journalists during the electoral process. And this law has set certain rules for the amount of time spent on advertising and because of changes to the Advertising Act and the Television and Broadcasting Act. Because today, somehow unmotivated, these rules were attached to the amendments to the Local Elections Act, the President expressed doubts as to how much less is appropriate than a month later to review these standards again. The committee yesterday knew nothing about the arrangements with which the journalists had been reached. Moreover, no one from the Committee on Freedom of Speech was present in the consideration of the matter. If the Committee on Freedom of Speech insists on changing these positions and the Supreme Council votes in favour, there is no problem. Yet, frankly, for the profile committee and for the President in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u50	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have had a discussion on Amendment 28, I will put it to the vote, this amendment in a way: who is in favour of supporting Amendment 28 of the President of Ukraine? And I'd like to ask them to identify themselves in the voting process. Who's in favour of supporting President 28's amendment, please determine how to vote. [[11:32:43]] Z-87 Amendment 28 of the President of Ukraine is not considered. With this in mind, I am voting for the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads”. Registration number 8509. Please vote. [[11:33:30.]] For 387 The law is passed. Thank you very much. I thank the committee, the President's representative, for processing the President's proposals so quickly and improving the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Basic Principles for State Control of Business in Ukraine is under review. Registration number 3154. The rapporteur is Ukraine's national deputy, Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk. It is proposed by the committee. For the report, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, the report, three minutes, discussion, 11 minutes, at least 12, let's say. There's no objection. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the main disadvantage of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the activities of the controlling authorities, is its legal regulation, mainly by means of noticeable or other legal acts. This fact violates the constitutional principle of government and local self - government, according to which these authorities and their officials are obliged to act only on the basis and within the limits of authority, not in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. For most public authorities, laws only determine the authority and the basis and method of carrying out control activities are laid down in sub-legislative acts that do not contribute to ensuring the effectiveness of their activities in carrying out their control functions. The need for the adoption of this law is the need to eliminate this contradiction. This law will help to remedy the shortcomings of current legislation and will contribute to the fair monitoring of these bodies. The law consists of 8 chapters, containing 37 articles proposing the organization and the conduct of control checks: financial and economic, executive and other activities of the operators, the conduct of inspections and the provision of mandatory prescriptions. The bill proposes to establish a comprehensive list of bodies that have the right to conduct planned and nonplanned checks on economic operators. This suggests defining the basis for the conduct of planned or non-planned checks, setting time limits for their duration, which provides a prerequisite for avoiding the possibilities for exceeding the powers given by laws and the Constitution of Ukraine to the controlling authorities. That is, this law will help us to set order in terms and all the standards of verification in our country. The committee considered this law. It is prepared, by the way, with a wide public participation, in particular the civil parliament of “Women of Ukraine”, other social organisations. There is the same law of Onichuk Mikli Vasilovich. We'll take into account in the second reading all the positions that will improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u52	If you have any questions, please write it down. Three minutes, dear fellows. Alexander Pecklesenko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u53	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of “Regions”, Zaporozska oblast. I think the fewer test subjects in the enterprises, the more orderly. Therefore, there should certainly be no extremes, no enterprises without rudders and sails. But it seems to me that, in the current situation, especially before the elections, when this law may be an instrument of political pressure, it is premature to pass this law. It is important, given the views of the business community, that local councils weigh everything “for” and “against” this law and advocate its adoption or rejection, discussion after the elections. That is my opinion and the opinion of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. But everything is the other way around. It is this law that protects all farm subjects from unscheduled checks; without test reports, they cannot be carried out without judicial decisions on unscheduled checks. In general, all activities of the control bodies are kept in order. There's a call from the participants in civil hearings, where all the representatives of the social organizations of entrepreneurial structures, both state and non-state ownership, who have asked and addressed the Supreme Council, to the head, to the MPs to adopt this Law in the first place, just as they are afraid of these very moments that you are talking about so that the electoral process does not become an instrument of power. It is this law that prevents this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u55	Yes, Yuri Carmazin. Your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I wanted to ask you, Your Honor, Catherine Timothy. The first question is: what is the relationship between the authorities you are talking about, the state control over the economic activity of operators with other controls that exist in the state today? That's the first question. The second question is, Do you identify yourself, for there is talk of government control and supervision in the mattresses, with each other? Is that a different concept? That's the second little question. And the third question is, since you have out-of-plan state checks when someone makes an application, a complaint by a natural or legal person about a violation of the laws, the number of these pre-planned checks is not limited, do you not think that it should be limited, even in such cases? Because statements can be thousands, identical cases, and
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u57	Thank you. Indeed, we clearly define the functions of State control, that is, the activities of those controlling bodies that do so as state control authorities. And it is this law that regulates their activity. Regarding the distinction between government control and oversight, this is clearly stated in the law and is completely normalized so that it is not identified. And even supervision can be carried out at the request of an economic activity subject who asks the controlling authority to give a consultation by overseeing its activities. And the last. A second reading will be possible and will really take into account your offer by clearly determining the possibility of checking on request and on request. Because this law determines the number of checks but is not determined at the request of subjects and citizens. It's true, it can be normalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u58	Yes. Catherine Timothy, time is up, please sit down. Mikola Oneschuk, please. The law that has just been passed is practically an alternative, as described in the account of Catherine Timothy. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u59	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable national deputies, the fact is that the subject of organizing State checks is really relevant. And it's no coincidence that the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, in particular I, as a national MP, have taken a legislative initiative, particularly Bill 3026, which deals with the same subject. I want to say that, and it's a pleasure to note that we have recently felt the consolidation of many of our colleagues and national deputies, and the State Committee on entrepreneurship, the Council of Entrepreneurs at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with a view to reaching a unified and common position to adopt a law that would really help entrepreneurs build partnerships with the state when it comes to verifying their activities or exercising public oversight. So the bill, which I report in this case, and it is close, I stress, to the text of the bill that Mrs. Vaschuk has just spoken, details the important issues related to, in particular, the forms of verification, the distinction between testing and verification. That is to say, it is the activity of a State that aims to help a business entity solve problems, including when there is no violation. On the other hand, if there is reason to believe that the subject of an economic activity, either because of nonreporting or because of claims made by other entities, is violating existing legislation, then the test is carried out. Under all circumstances, the bill states that the State has the right to carry out checks only once a year. That is, any controlling authority can verify the subject’s economic activity either as a survey or as a test, not more than once a year. The basis for the tests is exclusive, and I would like to emphasize that. They're 5 and they're clearly defined in the law, which is that the controlling authority can't go beyond the grounds for checking when it wants to. Fourth, the law lays down the right of an economic operator to refuse to allow testers to enter an enterprise if the formal requirements of the law are not met. That is, the test is not in order, provided for by law, not by those persons, but in order. And the last thing I'd like to say is that the law also foresees other very important factors that should undermine the influence of the state or the cessation of statutory activity. Dear colleagues, with the aim of reaching consensus and having a consolidated vote, we agreed and this is the joint position of the committee, the drafters of the bill, to take the basis, to draw your attention, Mrs. Vaschuk's bill, to then, in the second reading mode, to unify the common position and to vote effectively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u60	Thank you, too. Vitaly Hometic, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting to consider Bill 3154, introduced by Deputy Catherine Vaschuk, and we also considered another bill, introduced by colleague Mikola Onichuk. In fact, the bill is intended to create a single harmonized legal field that will regulate the procedures for the verification of various types of financial and economic activity of economic operators, as well as the determination of decision-making mechanisms and the follow-up by the supervisory authorities as a result of the checks they have carried out. I want to point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a very large number of proposals for additional proposals and comments to the Bills, and these proposals are correct. Of course, in our opinion, bills need to be finalized, but the Supreme Council has to decide on the concept of regulating the principles of state control. Thus, the committee decided to support the bill in the first reading of Deputy Catherine Vaschuk 3154 and, in the future, in the second reading, to take into account the proposals made by colleague Mikola Onichuk. And by the way, although it's an alternative, it's going under another number and it's not standing in order today. So the committee's proposal to support in the first reading is to continue to create a joint working group with the MPs, all the representatives who are interested in this process and make a really, really quality bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u63	Please, Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare Yuri Carmazin. 12 minutes as we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. The current legislation, along with the definition of the status of basic legal principles for the activities of the control bodies, remains uncertain as to the mechanism for carrying out checks on the activities of the controlling authorities. Such a mechanism is now determined by a very large number of internalized instructions that simply cannot be traced. This, in turn, creates the possibility of a variety of abuses by controlling authorities. I think the following points are positive in the bill. The bill seeks to generalize the direction of State checks, both tax and pricing, the purpose of the use of funds and the management of property, the violation and enforcement of the rights of employed workers of the labour force, etc. The proposed list of requirements for inspection bodies will ensure greater transparency in their performance and will not in addition violate the rights of the subjectors whose activities are being tested. This refers to the terms of the checks, the clear definition of the schedule of verifications of their actions, the requirements of the documentation to be verified, the forms of the report of the verification, the possibility of transferring the terms of the financial and economic documentation in the event of the latest audit, etc. There are many arguments that show the appropriateness of adopting the bill. In addition, it is worth agreeing and taking into account in the preparation of the law for the second reading of the observations made in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which are primarily related to technical and legal adjustment of the project. In general, the bill is designed to protect the interests of business subjects, entrepreneurial activities, and the use of controls, especially before the electoral campaign is launched. In view of this, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support the adoption of the bill in the first reading, provided that all comments are taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u65	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction. Get ready for Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The Act is entitled “On the Basic Principles for State Control of Economic Activity in Ukraine”. [[Watched]] I didn't accidentally ask if there was a distribution of supervision and control from the month, because this law doesn't have that distribution, even in the methodological sense. It's just not there. When it comes to State oversight, the supervision of law enforcement in Ukraine, including by various entities, is still carried out by such a body as the prosecutor’s office. This is provided for in the Constitution. There's no way to control anything other than fire, there's no law, there's sanitary control, and so on. Throughout the text of the law, I am not talking about defining the term, there is this shift of notion: article 2 “State Control Directions, Article 3 “State Control Forms”, article 4 “State Control Principles”, article 5 again in parentheses of the species, again, “Plan State Control”,. [[Watched]] [[Watched]] [[Watched]] [[Watched]] [[preview]] So it's all the same to the authors. First. These are not identical things, both surveillance and control. That's the first one. And the second. I see an effort to do better, to do better, but these efforts can be put on the road to hell. And I think it's working out in this project. I think this project doesn't just create control organs, it's already creating a monster. Why Monsters? Because today, no monitoring body has the right to appoint expertise. You're Katerina Timofievna, because I haven't found any more authors, so I'm only addressing you, saying you're assigning experts even. Article 44 of the Regulation on the appointment of an expert. And we do. Experts, that is, your body is already completely adult, so actually another investigative unit. One of the investigators added. Now essentially all the observations that are there. I've already said that there's a response to all the statements that come in. You can throw away a loving host. I don't like the farm, I don't like the company you used to work in, I'm going to write applications all the time and there's going to be a checkup. It is written that if people do not issue the necessary materials, documents, the subject has the right to do so on his own, checks. [[Part Six of Article 39]] Respectable, but there is article 30 of the Constitution. This is a clear contradiction. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u67	Novak, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u68	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear colleagues, the issue put forward for consideration by the Council today, is extremely important for the development of the economy of today’s Ukraine. Moreover, at the moment of carrying out checks on the activities of economic operators is regulated by a large number of normative acts that the checking party always treats as convenient. Communication with business leaders, organizations, private enterprises, numerous letters coming from cities indicate that the state has turned state control into a tool of administrative pressure, an important political influence on the entrepreneur. The credo of power: you don't support the politics of power, we'll torture you and your team with tests, we won't let you work, we'll let the beggars carry the bag around the world. And in the courts, you won't find an administration, because ours too. And that works most of the time. Power is passed on by an entrepreneur. This project, if adopted as a law, will allow for the conduct of checks on farm subjects to be conducted in a certain order. The bill establishes a comprehensive list of those who have the right to verify, the grounds for checking, the direction of verification, and the rights and responsibilities of those who check and those who check. If all of this is regulated by law, this law will help to improve the development of the enterprise. I want all those who listen to me right now and businesses, including, because this law will to some extent protect honest entrepreneurs from the aberration of officials. At the same time, I would like to warn you that this law can only be passed in the first reading. I fully agree with my colleague Karmazin, who has just made a statement here that there are a number of provisions in the law that the Communist faction believes require clarifications and new formulations. Yes, the project foresees that one basis for verification may be a claim or a complaint by a legal or natural person. By doing so, it is clear that by organizing the flow of complaints and claims, the work of any enterprise can be paralyzed. Or else. It is suggested that the subject of the test refuse to answer. the relevant documents for checking and opening access to the room allowing the controlling authority to do this on its own. And if this is a private entrepreneur and documents are kept in his home, how can we then deal with the constitutional right to intact human housing? There are a number of other inadequacies that need clarification. Considering what it is. Ukrainian Communist Party programmes provide for the protection and support of honest entrepreneurs, and the Communist faction will vote in favour of this project in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u69	My dear, the faction of the People's Party, please. None. Please, Sadowy. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u70	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, faction of the Frost. Ukraine’s 2006 budget was adopted yesterday. The Socialists in their time initiated the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War, and yesterday 700 million dollars were taken into account for the social services of “children” and additionally for the benefit of children, so there are some distortions in this regard, although this law will not be fully implemented. Therefore, in order to ensure that the budget is implemented, including for children of war, the principles of State control over economic activity in Ukraine are needed. Therefore, this bill: on the basic principles of State control over economic activity in Ukraine – is urgent and needs to be adopted in the first reading. And the faction of socialists will vote in the first reading for this bill. Because the main disadvantage of current legislation in Ukraine regarding the activities of the controlling authorities is that they are mainly used, not for legal reasons, but for various notable and sublegal acts. This certainly violates the constitutional principle of government and local self - government. That is why this law must be adopted. We've already been told by colleagues here that often tests are used as a tool for regulating relationships with authority, or even often to collect a different kind of tribute. I can give an example of when the city of Kirovograd was liberated, the city mayor of Kirovgrad, only because he was not in power at the time. And he's out of office, and he's out of prison, and he's still working and working. There are, of course, various warnings, including warnings regarding planned and unscheduled tests. Of course, the plans are clear what can be done in such a way that there is a graph of these tests and control of them. As for pre-planned checks, and especially for letters that can be organized and then systematically checked, until infinity, this law needs to be further developed, and for second reading it should be submitted in a better state. Socialists support the bill in the first reading and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Please, Mironenko, microphone. And we'll vote. Not from the faction, but from the motive. We don't have statements from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u72	The bill was very important in its first reading, but the second reading should take into account not only what had been said by many deputies, but also provide for the responsibility of those who checked for abuse, for the damage caused to labour groups, enterprises, that was the first. Second, it is necessary to place funds in the State budget that can compensate for the material damage to enterprises that are suffering from losses due to the fact that documents are actually being removed often, the work of the enterprise is paralyzed and the labour community, the human settlements and the public as a whole is suffering. And when there will be financial responsibility of States, then perhaps there will be clear responsibility for those who abuse their position of office to organize a large number of unnecessary but politically motivated checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u73	Igor Shurma, please microphone. Please invite the deputies to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u74	Shurma Games, a faction of Ukraine's social-democratic party beyond doubt today in Ukraine, entrepreneurial activity is regulated and as a result we have a reduction in small businesses and an increase in unemployment. [[united]] There is no doubt that corruption is flourishing today, and unofficially the size of bribes has grown 2.3 times. Despite all the promises made by the new authorities in the country, there is still no single window for entrepreneurs. Under such conditions only in the legal field, it was possible to help domestic businesses, each passing through dozens of such windows each year, so - called State control bodies. Under such conditions, it is positive that the list of State control directions of the project is comprehensive and that the exercise of State control in other directions will be prohibited. Therefore, the bill should be supported in the first reading with the additions that have been made in the discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u75	Yes, honourable national deputies, because we have a draft decree on the unacceptableness of the draft law under discussion. I will put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Law on Basic Principles for State Control of Economic Activity in Ukraine. The author of this project, Leonid Chernewicki. I'd like to make a statement. It's about inadmissibility. [[12:04:12]] For-21 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 3154, on the basic principles of State control over economic activity in Ukraine. [[Watched]] Please vote. [[12:04:47]] For the 250. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, a number of factions - factions of the “Ukraine Region” and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - require a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules. As well as the factions of Julia Timoshenko's bloc, “The only Ukraine” also requires a 30-minute recess to hold consultations. A break of 30 minutes, up to 12 hours, is announced in this connection for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u76	We're continuing our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u77	Stoyan, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” party. Honorary colleagues, national MPs, citizens of Ukraine, were voted yesterday on the 2006 budget. It was as if 226 national deputies had voted for him, but as it turned out today, he was not voted for by national deputy Victor Kirillov, and Alexander Bandurka did not vote for him. As he told us, others did it for him. Can I say, isn't it rare for colleagues to vote for each other? Yes. They vote, but they do so on request or at the commission of their colleagues. In this case, there were no deals. It's too much of a voting principle. Why did opposition factions not vote? We have already made our point. Just one example. More than 100 proposals have been submitted by the factions of the Party of the Regions, which have been aimed at improving the socio-economic development of our state, and no proposal has been taken into account. And there are no other proposals. Thus, the adoption of the budget is falsified. In civilized countries such a government would have to resign rather than wait for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign. That's why we're asking the regulatory committee to cancel the budget vote. We call on the President of Ukraine not to sign the law on budget, so not to legitimize its falsification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u78	Yes. True, in civilized countries, if Parliament does not accept the budget, it is also being retired. Please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u79	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. As we speak of Ukrainian popular solidarity and call for unity of power and people, we cannot fail to note that the budgetary race and the decisions made on the budget conveyor can cost our citizens dearly. Here's an example of a budget decision. In the last minute, the 2006 draft of the State Budget produced, in fact, a political provocation that relates to the life and existence of the Ukrainian Disability Organization. After pushing away all the social organizations of the blind, deaf, disabled, warlords, Afghans, children of the disabled and others at night, suddenly without agreement with the Committee on Budgets, only one new small social organization of the disabled was allocated, which was created by the appropriate political force with a considerable amount of money — 6 million dollars or nearly 25 percent of the total cost of the article, and other people with disabilities in the budget of the bubble hole. As we know, the members of the Budget Committee stated that they had not voted for it. And on behalf of the two factions of BUT and “The One Ukraine”, I state that this amendment has not been voted on and I ask you to consider this statement as our parliamentary request and to withdraw 6 million, this amendment, which reads, including 6 million for this organization, with all the funds left in this budget article for all the disabled people in Ukraine. I would also like to remind you that material aid to disabled people is provided by legislation, that the budget is satisfied by 4 percent, that treatment is 5 percent, that even prosthesis is not funded. Such a pre-election state budget was adopted yesterday. We demand that this unprecedented budgetary crime be investigated. And to that end, we propose that we once again create a permanent socio-economic council, starting on January 1, the Supreme Council will be the highest authority of the state, without which it will not be able to perform its tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u80	Let's go to Ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being complied with. Minister of Education Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, three minutes. Prepare Homutinika from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! As a result, the need for such a covenant is called for. I'd like to tell you, you know, in Ukraine today about 20,600 schools. In rural areas 14,100 Here are the facts. In an emergency situation today, 587 schools, need capital repairs to 2,567 schools, no central heating to 1,970, no plumbing and no sewers to have 15,000 schools together. In this context, the government's agreement is that we make a deal -- equal access to quality education in Ukraine -- with the World Bank and on normal, absolutely convenient terms, when, let's say, we take a loan of $86 million, 5 years of suspension, so we don't pay off the debt for five years. And starting in five years -- for 20 years -- we're going to gradually repay these debts. The rate, the percentage is extremely favourable, and what was assessed on the banking committee yesterday is also acceptable. If you talk about where the costs will be spent, first of all, improving the material and technical base of postgraduate education institutions in each area, informing 500 schools, developing electronic textbooks, creating modern school, inter-school electronic libraries, providing funding for teaching initiatives -- 200 schools, creating modern primary schools -- about 600 schools, including providing them with new educational equipment, using heat and energy-saving technologies, repairs and so on, and so on. So this project is going to seriously raise the scientific, methodical level of our schools today. I'd like to tell you one more interesting thing. It's remarkable that the conditions are that if, let's say, 86 million dollars is allocated to the World Bank, we have to put an even smaller number in our budget. So it's going to be twice the cost. I'd like to call you these numbers. This year we voted 150 million for rural school for the first time in rural school; 86 million for correctional education is for boarding schools; few about 70 million for buses; and 123 million for textbooks and so on. [[That's half over.]] Together, the school will be invested with this money, if we vote 619 million from a central budget alone, it's a material base of schools, it's very convenient. I'd like to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich! Please tell us that Ukraine cannot afford to attract itself to a debt pit, such as ties with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. After all, we are all well aware that similar agreements or, as is the case with the day’s ratifications today, are a major responsibility in the future for our citizens and our nation. Please tell me. What is the loan debt specifically and its final amount of payment after the end of the 20-year term? And the second. Is it about trying to raise the level of material and technology and so forth in secondary schools, in secondary education or in higher education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u84	Thank you, Anatoly Volodymyrovich for asking. For one thing, world practice is like this. Everyone in the same country uses credit. If you ask the question, what is the size of the pay, 4.01 percent. Look. In Ukraine today, you say, well, bet 24 percent. If today, let's say the city authorities there take a loan from Colonczak or Herson, they take a loan of 24 percent, and they give it back. And here's 4 percent of the time. We don’t pay for five years and then for 20 years. So I think it's a normal loan, and Ukraine will have a future if we support high school today. You asked the question: Who more, say, do these loans apply? These loans will be directed primarily to support our secondary education in proportion to Donetsk, to Lviv, to Herson, to Mikolai, to Kiev and so on. Work will be done by 42 million. In addition, it is estimated that the cost of the purchases of the goods is estimated at US$ 18 million. This means computers, equipment, and so on and so forth. And we'll pay for using the loan, I'll tell you, from about 3.5 million to five million dollars depending on how we use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been preparing this directly, signing this loan agreement, and you've probably seen that in Appendix two, a description of the project, part A, where there's a distribution of funds to enhance the qualifications, to train the principals of management schools, and so on. So what I'm saying is, why can't we redistribute the funds to a system of vocational education that's completely lost in the country and we're not writing here right now. Because we had an impact on the signing of this agreement. They could have fixed the Americans that we don't need credit for this, and we need to see who's coming, and now they've prepared the change that's coming to the plant. There's no one to work at the factories right now. Do you know this situation where new places are opening up? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'd like to hear an answer or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u87	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, well, you must be like no one else, you know my attitude towards the system of vocational education. And I'm sure yours and my efforts, all of us here in the hall, have preserved this system. I'm telling you, this year, there's not a single hospital in the world that has a single set of public service debts. A year ago, we had 30 to 40 million debts. We've tripled the cost of food. There's not a penny of debt or pension. Excuse me, wages, scholarships and so on. But you're right. We, look, the draft decision says that more than $200 million is going to be loaned in general, and the next one will be in vocational education and in support of higher education. So we're going to take your wishes into account, realizing that today's personnel are both engineering and laborers we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This project called "Equal access to quality education in Ukraine" is the first phase of the program and will take 4 years. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development assistance programme to implement measures to reform the Ukrainian education system and improve the management of resources in this sector will take more than 10 years with possible stages of 4 years, 3 years and 3 years with expected total expenditure of about $330 million. Of these, $260 million is credited to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The implementation of this project will enable a number of tasks to improve the quality of general secondary education and achieve equal access to quality education for all population categories. Among the measures to be taken in the framework of the project, considerable attention will be given to the development and implementation of modern learning programs, new textbooks, teaching manuals, taking into account the transition to 12-year-old learning. The total cost of this phase project will be $96.26 million, of which $86 million will be financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the co-financing of the Ukrainian side will be $9.7 million. The committee had a rather detailed discussion on cost and cost detail, but we came to understand that this project is to be supported. Therefore, in view of what has been put forward, also considering that this loan is actually an important investment in the future of Ukraine, the Committee has made a positive decision, that is, recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u90	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. Mishur.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u92	Novak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u93	Dear Sergio Vasilovich. Communist faction, Vladimir Novak. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, well, you know, we used to do things in Soviet Ukraine without credit and without help from abroad. And taught their children. And our education system was one of the best education systems in the world, and we all learned. I'm just talking to you as a specialist. Please tell me, are you sure that this entire loan, which today is going to have to pay for, is going to reach our schools, our children, the schools of education? Because practice shows that these costs do not always come. It's just on the way. And I can't tell you. It's just on the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikolaiovich. First. It was the second, or other, state that invested in education, which was the Soviet Union. The other one. I have great respect and respect for the Minister of Education, Nikolainek Stanislav, so I'm confident that all the costs that this fund will cost will go to school. And the third. I want to emphasize that the best investment is an investment in our future with you. That's why we supported this bill in principle, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, please tell me how you calculate the control system. Is it enough to write down a system of cost control and transparency? Whether Parliament will be informed at the right time and relevant committees of Parliament, including the Committee on Budget Affairs. Because it's about co-financing the Ukrainian side is going to be 9.6 and 673, more faithfully, thousands of dollars in the United States, about 50 million dollars. It's not that small of a cost. By the way, how are we going to budget them now, how are you planning to distribute the committee? What are we going to bet next year or not? What transparency mechanism do you see in the budget? Do you understand, yes, the ratio? I'd like to ask you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u97	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, in this fairly balanced document, we think there is a pretty substantial control mechanism, as well as detail. As for your information question, it's in our hands. If we're going to want to hear about whether or not we're going to listen to some other period of time information about the implementation of this treaty, we can do that with you. As far as the budget is concerned, this is not a question of our competence, we have not studied the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u98	Well, it says five-year suspension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u99	For five years, but with regard to Ukraine’s budget, there were questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u100	Hunger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the floor to my distinguished Victor Vasilovich Terrence of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u102	Terra's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u103	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. I was fortunate enough to learn from the beautiful Ukrainian teacher Vasil Alexandrovich Sukhomlinski. And Paula. This school is really a pedagogical lab that they know all over the world. And today, when delegates from all over the country come here, they see a school that is long overdue for repairs, they see a large puddle in the village, where there was once a beautiful pond, and who no one wants to clean, they see broken roads and so on. And it's a similar situation across the whole Kirovograd area. Our deputy, Sergei Sass, is well aware of this situation, and most of the schools in the area have been around. And we have very specific classes in all schools that need repairs, computerization, and so forth. And so I would very much ask my dear colleagues to make the most of this project right now and to support it, because this is really what Ukraine needs, this is really what our children need.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u104	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich, sit down, please. Are we going to talk or are we going to vote? Vote. They insist on discussing it. Please, 12 minutes. School, get Carmagine ready. There's no Andrew School. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I will immediately say, ladies and gentlemen, that I will vote in favour of this bill, which foresees the need to ratify the Supreme Council of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But there were a lot of previous regimes. I'd like to answer them. Have you visited rural schools long ago? Do you know that the toilets there are at such a distance from school, and during the winter period, some even, especially in the Cherkas region, in the Kirovograd region, in Western Ukraine, in the Sumsten region, do not have doors? Did you not know that? And you're saying that we had a good education until 1991. But by 1991, unfortunately, the same condition existed in the horrendous facilities of the schools. Because, well, I'll take you to those schools, if you're not there, dear. I don't want to, I don't want to complain to you right now, you know, I understand that everything was better before, because you and I were younger. But the cost of repairing schools, repairing equipment and repairing the situation today is absolutely necessary. And the sooner we do it and understand it, the better. I would consider it necessary to redistribute these costs in part, and now perhaps an additional redistribution agreement should be written with less money going to so-called consultants, Mr. Minister. I wouldn't want us to have money for our credit consultants. This is the extra cost that we are, and the extra burden that will go on our Ukrainian people. I also think that the principals of management schools, they're not the needs that we have to invest in here, financial resources and take credit for. This is why we have departments, offices, and the Ministry. And please teach them within the limits of what the budget gives you. And don't take credit for that yet, or we're done, we're taking credit for the principals of management schools, and that's exactly what we're writing. If they wrote it to us, dictated our terms, and we couldn't have children anywhere, I'd have figured it all out. So I'm asking you for the future, never write like this. And I ask all government representatives, when you make credit agreements, to ensure the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainians, not lobbying foreign interests. I think we need to adopt this bill and think, and I'll be grateful if the vocational education is marked here by these seminars, the money will go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u106	Yes, Mikhail Rodionov, Basil Nadragah next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u107	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear National MPs, distinguished radio listeners, one of the senior colleagues on the Supreme Council committee advised me if you want people to understand what you're saying, speak the language you're thinking. So I'm going to put the Communist faction's position on the loan agreement in the language of national minorities. In addition to the comments contained in the decision of the Committee on Science and Education, these comments are available to each of the people's deputies, and I will make the following observations on the feasibility of a credit agreement, which may be taken into account: 1. What the initiators of the credit agreement mean when they declare a policy of access to quality education. Who will build a quality assessment system? According to the distribution of funds between national and foreign consultants, the primary role is assigned to foreign consultants. Without demeaning the dignity of these consultants, I wish to say that the consultations of foreign specialists on the reform of the village and the high-tech economy of Ukraine have led to the collapse of these sectors. There is no reason not to believe that the same participation will not be achieved by education. Therefore, communists have no right to make efforts to reform education on the model of the village and industry. We believe that the resurgence of education and science must take place on its own, in Ukraine, by a sufficiently intelligent person. There is a necessary experience that prevents the intentional or unintentional destruction of the educational system. Regarding the financing of a credit agreement to assess the quality of education by means of so-called independent testing. First question. Independent testing, who are they independent of? It is independent of all educational institutions. We don't trust teachers or directors or anyone at all, accusing everyone of hopelessness. I have a question, and who do we trust if we don't trust our own people? Aren't independent foreign experts more confident than their own citizens? The communists do not think so, but we trust Ukrainian citizens more than citizens of other countries. Let the citizens of other countries not take offense; they do just that. There are many other comments that do not allow the Communists to vote in favour of this loan agreement. Someone might say it's an exaggeration, maybe, but you'll blow on water if you burn on milk. We've already been on fire once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u108	Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u109	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, faction of the Frost. As far as the bill is concerned. If we want a shift in education, we should certainly not only look at our budget, we should use not only our own capabilities, but we should use what can be involved in the form of loans. Any state, including the Soviet Union in the past, has taken credit. And it's not true that loans in the Soviet Union have never been taken. Let's get married. And let's go down to the ground in this case. Let us now consider such problems. We have a problem with small schools. How to resolve it. Are we going to be able to solve the problems of those small schools, where there are 20, 30, at most 50 students left? And how to provide this educational process in these schools for children, for teachers, for a material base. The problem is huge and requires considerable money. Next. It's a problem with the dorms. We've accepted the budget, but the cost of starting construction of new dormitories, school interns, it's not solved. Further on, it's about pay. There are also problems with the wages in the budget that we have adopted. Let's take the student diet. After the student’s meal, too, everything is not resolved. Material base, computerization. It's also not resolved in that budget what it is. They're also talking about external testing. So let's go down to the ground and see how we do the exams and those 10-12 points when parents come in, attack both the school principal and the teacher, respectively, to get a high score. And then this high ball has nothing to do with it. Let's look at the quality of the knowledge that our students have. Quality needs to be raised, it needs to be raised by doing independent testing. Consider, for example, the African state of Guinea. The policeman comes to school with a large bag, all the students, the school principal and so on leave school, he carries out such an examination, he folds all the test results into the bag, and he goes to the capital. So if we got there, we can't even get to the point where it's external testing, or it's necessary. Socialists support the bill and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u110	Tamara Proskuratov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. During her term of office, when she met more than one school meeting, of course, with the sharpest question that teachers ask, first of all, their salary, the implementation of 57 articles and other questions, is the improvement of the material and technical base. And so this bill, the ratification of this agreement that the government is proposing, is one way to solve this problem. And that's because there's not enough repairs in schools right now, and there's not enough material and technical facilities. So it's the adoption of such a bill, that is, these loans, that will somehow help solve the problem of the material and technical provision of schools. In particular, it will also allow, in turn, to provide the material and technical conditions of the school, it will also facilitate the gradual transition of the public education school to a new structure and a 12-year term for education. And it will also contribute to the transition of secondary education in Ukraine to new state education standards. In addition, the adoption of the bill will allow for the modernization of the content of general secondary school education to ensure the transition of senior school to vocational education, the introduction of education innovations and information technologies, the provision of targeted support to rural schools, the provision of modern education facilities, and the improvement of the effectiveness of the entire education system. The ratification of the bill and further implementation of the project will also contribute to ensuring that one of the main principles of school reform is equal opportunities and access for every young person to quality education. And so, of course, I will personally support this bill as a teacher, because our schools, especially rural schools, and in January will be the government's Day, where we will listen to the very problem of the educational process in rural schools, will help, because there is not yet, in the budget, any available funds, this bill will help strengthen the material and technical bases of our public schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote and mobilize. I am voting on the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement, the project “Equal Access to Quality Education in Ukraine” between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Please vote. Registration number 0311. [[13:09:36]] For 257 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Yes, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is under consideration. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Titenko Sergey Mihajlovich. Burjak will be speaking from the committee. Where's the minister? Where's the sheet? Where? Let's make this the last time. Or Kabmin, or the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to respect the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u113	Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the loan agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is presented. The project is a continuation of a $35.2 million project with the Bank for the Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants, which was successfully completed in 2002. During the 1996-2002 project, 16 hydro-aggressors were rehabilitated to increase their capacity by almost 90 megawatts. And there's an increase in the coefficient of useful action. According to the following project, the World Bank will finance the next phase of the rehabilitation of 9 Dniprovsky and Dnistrovsk power plants, which produce virtually all of Ukraine's hydroelectric energy over the period 2006-2011. The adoption of this law will allow for an amount of $106 million from the United States to finance measures to improve operational stability and the reliability of energy supply by increasing regulatory power in the unified energy system and increasing the level of safe operation of hydroelectric power plants. The project envisions the rehabilitation of 46 hydro-aggregates with a total capacity of 2,000 megawatts and the enhancement of the safety of the Dniprovin hydroelectric cascade, which is essential for Ukraine. The additional capacity of rehabilitated hydro-aggregates will be 235 megawatts, which is virtually equal to the construction of a new power plant, a hydroelectric power plant in Ukraine. With the reconstruction of the power plant, special attention will be given not only to improving the energy efficiency of modern turbines and generators, but also to ensuring the current level of environmental safety and water quality in the Dnipro and Dniester rivers. In addition, these will be new jobs in Kyivsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik, Herson, Cherniewsky. At the same time, this means increasing revenues to budgets of all levels, including local budgets. The World Bank’s credit is granted for 18 years with a six - year premium period. Interest on credit is about five, one-time commission is 0.5, reserve fee is 0.75. The project is planned for 2006 - 2012, i.e. the repayment of the principal amount of the loan will start only after the project is completed. The totality of the project is two or three years. The operation of the main equipment will be extended by 30 to 40 years. Borrowing will greatly reduce the burden on an active wholesaler.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Questions? Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u115	Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”. To begin with, all of us, distinguished deputies, all of us who hear and see us, congratulations on the coming Energy Day, because the electricity in each of us will not live without this life-saving resource. To ensure that we have the reliability of this resource, I ask everyone to support this law: obtaining credit. And to you, Sergei Mikhailovich, a question. Could we find even cheaper money to implement such an energy programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u116	Well, the answer is no. The World Bank's money is considered to be the cheapest money in the world plus a project that provides for six years of deferral of the body payment, just for which all the work is done. And only after the real-life project has been implemented will the recovery of the loan body begin under increased production volumes. This ensures, practically, a zero return to the world bank in terms of the final amount. Therefore, this is the only opportunity to use cheap money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u117	Yes, Mikola, Mikola Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u118	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the floor to the colleague of Orzhachovsky Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u119	Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter, I, like all the people's deputies, think we're for energy, for energy to be guaranteed to us in the country, but at the expense of Ukraine, not at the expense of other people's money. Don't you think that those who are now lending to themselves are acting with perspective as I am is nothing more than the efforts of the strong world of this total control: education, development, and now energy. Unfortunately, Ukraine, in my opinion, is becoming addicted. So I would still want them to decrypt what is meant by hydropower plants, reconstruction or rehabilitation, or what is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u121	So in this case, we're predicting that 46 hydro-aggregates, which include turbines, will be replaced by the same new, also Ukrainian production, all 46, say, turbines and 46 hydro-generators. That's what I'm saying. That all of this predicts that all the assembly and construction work will also be done by Ukrainian companies. And that makes it possible to get extra jobs, pay and so forth. Moreover, I want to tell you that, yes, and the safety of the reefs, the dams, our dams. Because for many years they have needed automatic regulation of their resistance to the pressure of water. And that's what I'm trying to say. What matters to us is that if we built exclusively for our money, that would mean an increase in the electricity tariff. When we have, right now under the construction period, because we have time, six years, to make these changes, this period of tariff on the power of the company Ukrhydroenergo will not increase for this reason. And when it ends after six years, they'll already produce about 400 million kilowatts/hours more. And that'll make it possible not to raise the tariff after that. And the return on credit is going to take place on a flat schedule without the burden on the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u122	Thank you. Please sit down for a while. Vitaly Hometic. Ah, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, the head of the committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The deputy minister has already given quite a bit of information on this loan. I just want to put my accent on. The hydroelectric rehabilitation project has five components. The “A” component, the rehabilitation of hydroelectric plants, provides for the rehabilitation of 46 hydroelectric units by nine GES Dniprovsky and Dnistrovsk stunts. As a result of the project, the additional power increase is going to be 235 megawatts, which is actually equal to the power of the Kyiv GES. So Ukraine gets another hydroelectric power plant without building additional dams on the Dnipro River. Component “B” – a safe comb. It provides for four automated hydrotechnical safety control systems that will allow for a new level of control and control of the reliability and safety of the dam, which prevents possible emergency situations. The “C” component is the institutional development of Ukrhydroenergo. It envisions the creation of a general corporate information system in the Ukrhydroenergo. The cost of implementing hydropower rehabilitation components, reef safety, and Ukrhydrogenergo’s institutional development is about $100 million. The repayment of these components of the loan received by Ukrhydroenergo will be made at the expense of the company’s own resources. Component D. Institutional development Minpalivenegro provides for the provision of Minpalivenergo advisory services and assistance in the development and implementation of a plan of measures to bring the energy market of the borrower into line with the requirements of the internal energy market of the European community. Component E. Implementation of the concept of the wholesale electricity market. The component provides technical assistance to NCRE in implementing the concept of the wholesale electricity market. The cost of implementing these components in the institutional development of Minpalevenergo and the introduction of the concept of the wholesale electricity market is going to be 2.5 million, 3 million, etc. The loan is granted, according to the deputy minister, with a six - year debt period and an 18 - year repayment period. The committee considers this loan to be relevant and necessary, so we ask that we support this loan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? We asked a representative of the government. The committee reported on its position and everything. We agreed that we would not ask the committee questions. 12 minutes, let's talk. Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, please. Oh, no, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Andrew Schlell. Yuri Carmazin will be the second to speak. You don't? Please turn on the school microphone. School microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u125	I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy of Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, please microphone. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski. I thank Shkelleva for her word. I'd like to add briefly to this. Indeed, I believe that under the conditions of the energy crisis that Ukraine is facing today because of its cowardice and because of the lack of attention of the authorities to the fact that States have to be protected and have to look for alternative sources of supply and oil and gas, and not today when we're stuck on the wall doing this, we're going to adopt a methane bill that can be extracted from mines and so on. I mean, we're always late. That's why I'm convinced that this bill and this loan must be taken, indeed, in order to restore several of these powerful energy units in Ukraine's energy system. But I would just like to pay attention to both the deputy minister, and our fuel-energy department still, we forgot about those post-war years, I still remember from my childhood in my village, there were hydropower stations on the river, then we made an absolute cranium into nuclear energy, primitive, taken only from these Soviet or Russian sources, to which we are bound today, and fuel and technology, and this RBMK-1000 reactor that we were given, give us, give us, such a colossal technological tragedy of Chernobyl that we have. [[in quotes]] Because I would point out that you could actually go back to these hydropower plants, they are. I realize that they're not so powerful, I understand that you can look at them from a high point of view, but if we're talking about wind power today, using wind power, under Kiev, by the way, there's already a lot of these windmills standing, if we're talking about today the energy of solar batteries that are being used elsewhere in the Crimea, and there's already in other countries, then I'd really like to pay attention to these little hydroelectric stations, there's, there's actually a dam, there's water energy of rivers, and it would still be worth coming back quietly and being restored. I understand that they will not completely cover the energy deficit that we have today. But you have to go in parallel, of course, to the shelves of the Black Sea, and still deep wells do it, and get both oil and gas. And you also have to do small things that may not seem prestigious to someone, but they're generally for certain regions where we can strengthen, say, and plug a lot of these rivers, and Winnitzkin, and so on. I am convinced that this should be done. And now I think we need to confirm this in this bad hour of energy, it's going to help us a lot and a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u128	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Now we're looking at a $106 million loan. I will vote in favour, I will call everyone to vote in favour. But this speech, I want to address the issues and, in particular, I wanted to ask the minister a question. But somehow, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's always not my turn. How do we make this clear now? And 2.2 billion. The euro “Naftogaz” signed, received, 2.2 billion. Euro. And we didn't clearly define the question of how the loan went and where it went. I mean Naftogazu. And we don't know where the gas transport system went. And we've come to the point that today in Ukraine we need to adopt an extraordinary state of energy. And we need to announce this extraordinary state of energy. Because the situation is critical. And, in particular, it's critical because of the gas oak. But I thank the Russians very much for applying the gas cylinder to us. Perhaps this will give some hot heads who have just arrived, become prime ministers, and three days later, four days later, they said, "We are removing the energy saving committee." And they got rid of it. And now we have to answer for it. Because on a scale of the country, no one is doing any energy saving to this day. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are present at the Security Council. Please tell us what the Ukrainian people think. Don't say that the Ukrainian people, say, Carmazin thinks that Carmazin is in a state of extreme energy when someone else has a mind. To make it clear that six times more use per unit than by Poles, it's a crime. Therefore, it is necessary to ratify this covenant that is. One. The other one. Today, we need to ensure the safety of all hydroelectric dams, including a look at what threatens us in Kiev, because Mayor Kiev does not care. We may have, God forbid, a tragedy. Next. This agreement will give us an increase in annual electricity production by 453 million kilowatts of hours and maybe even more power input. And using the fact that there are representatives of the Ministry, I would like to ask you, "What less wind do we have than we have in Holland?" In Crimea, in Clothing, in Zaporozhye, in Donceka's wind we have no less. Why are you not using wind energy? Why don't you spend your money there? Why don't you put it in? Why don't you take an alternative? Why you're just oil and gas and just smoke.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u130	Yuri Solomatin. May I have your attention, please? The Communist faction. Prepare for Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u131	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! There's practically no bill in our session room so there's no subtext in it. Of course, the expert sees this subtext and always considers whether it will harm this subtext more than what is on the surface and what is announced from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us pay attention to the fact that the loan will go in favour of the Open Shareholder Association “Ukrhydroenergo”. I asked my colleagues, "What part of the state in this open stock company?" And they assured me that more than 90 percent, almost 98 percent, was good. This reconstruction, which is referred to in hydropower, has to be done primarily at the expense of 256 million people. And this is the credit line that we're talking about, 106 million dollars. That's what I'm talking about. Total 362 million That's what I'm talking about. So this credit line, it's only one third of that. What it takes to ensure that the hydropower plant works for the future. And I have this very simple question: can't Ukraine and VAT “Ukrhidroenergo” be able to do without this credit line at all, even though it already exists? There's very small percentages, they're so convenient, and so on. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you could have done without this line of credit. But why are we stressing hydropower stations over and over again, but we're not paying attention to the fact that the credit line will be used for the institutional development of Minpalevenergo, 2.5 million. Is that what you're talking about? To introduce the concept of wholesale market, $3 million. That is, to provide Minpalevener's office with various contracts, with different expert conclusions that could be avoided. So I would take out 5.5 million. This direction is institutional development and the introduction of a concept and would put it in the safety, environmental safety of hydropower plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u132	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u133	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, faction of the Frost. Dear colleagues, socialists support those loans that serve the people who serve the children. Ukraine’s energy is made up of four types of energy - generated devices. These are the heat plants, the nuclear power plants, the hydropower plants, and the non-traditional ones that we talked about. They are all clearly valuable, for none of these objects are the kind of objects that need to be invested. In addition, the construction of new hydroelectric power plants today is simply nowhere to build them on the Dniper and the rivers that are there. We need to find a way out. The solution is that you have to do a reconstruction of what you have. If heat plants, which are the basis for the supply of electricity, need substantial costs in order of the day and the heat plants, their reconstruction. That's exactly what nuclear power plants are. Today's opportunity is such an opportunity that we can take credit and reconstruct to a large extent the hydropower plant. And that's what we have to do. There is a hydroelectric power plant in the city of Svetłovodsk Region, called the Kremenchuck hydroelectric power plant, which needs such credits, requires constant maintenance and so forth. The measures that are being taken now will serve both the city’s citizens and those living in Lightwater, including the provision of new jobs. What's more, a loan is a premium with an 18-year term for return. So it's very convenient, and it needs to be used rationally, and it doesn't just allow these costs to go at the wrong address or a large amount of them to be returned. So we need to control the use of these funds. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and take this loan, it will serve our state, it will serve to strengthen the energy supply of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u134	Honorable National MPs, consideration. What? The storm. Nigger. And Bronniks, yes, those who recorded. Shurma's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u135	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] No doubt, when we're talking about a project to rehabilitate hydroelectric power plants and receive funds, that's positive, because the topic of energy conservation, energy supply for the state -- that's predominant. But I have a question, has anyone ever looked at the appendix number one of the General Regulations? In paragraph four, it says how the funds are distributed. Unallocated funds — five million 470,000. Where will they go? Where will they go, and who will control them? But we have to give ourselves a sense that if we don't have five percent of the total to be spent on unallocated funds, if we don't have money for consultants, if we don't have the corresponding hundreds of thousands of dollars for shopping, no one abroad is going to be such a good helper -- giving Ukraine just that kind of money. Whether to vote or not, it's up to everyone to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u136	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Černjak, “Afterfractional”. In the face of an energy crisis, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has established Ukraine’s shoulders. And we should be grateful to him for that, and I think we have all the necessary and sufficient reasons to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Clearly, the energy crisis requires a systematic approach, including the rehabilitation of hydropower plants, taking into account the fact that it is an environmentally clean form of energy. The International Bank is giving us credit for a long-term and long-term loan, which is extremely convenient for us. So I think we need to support this. I would also like to respond to the speech of Deputy Carmazin, who said that we have no less wind than in the Netherlands. We have more in the head of the wind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u138	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u139	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of the Region., Party of “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozje. Dear colleagues, I would like to divide the problem into two parts. First, yes, we have hydropower the cleanest electricity production, but we must remember that hydropower ensures the safety of the environmental safety of all Donetsk, Dneprov swimming pool. And we must bear in mind the technical status of our hydrostations so that they do not present any problems for us right now. Secondly, we must point out to you that our Government is taking out the systemless financial management of reconstruction, the rehabilitation of all electricity. The energy programme also does not show where the draft energy strategy is from. The Government must pay attention to this and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? What line? Please, Karmazin, the last name mentioned, Carmazin's microphone, only without a name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I'm nameless, but one of the previous speakers referred to my last name, saying that there was a wind in our nation's head. But there's no wind in our nation in the head, some leaders have a little, well, that's it. But now I wanted to talk about other little countries, like: Japan, Taiwan, is completely energy independent, and today they've been dumping their products all over the world. We Ukrainians, and I am the co-head of the Ukrainian-Parliamentary Taiwan Group, can't, even with Taiwan set up a normal relationship to learn from them at least how to do it. And let the government learn ours. By the way, they are longtime WTO members and ahead, and we also need to make a deal with them. So, dear friends, I'd like us to introduce wind power so that we and the solar batteries don't forget that we have Crimea, there's Odessa, there's Herson, there's the sun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is on the vote. Registration number 0312. Please vote. [[13:40:19]] For 236 Decision taken. We continue our morning session for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, pedagogical, scientific and other categories of teaching staff, is being announced. [[on postage salaries]] The reporter is Tamara Proscuratov. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u143	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Dear colleagues, the problem of the 57th article of the Ukrainian Education Act is a matter that is extremely acute. And all of you, I'm sure, are receiving letters from colleagues of teachers who are asking for a quick solution. And even if there is money, now in some regions people still haven't gotten that money by now, because there's no mechanism to pay money for internships, health care, premiums. Today's bill is proposed through the introduction of additions to the final provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Educating Teachers, Science and Other categories of Teachers, to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to bring into line with the requirements of article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education of Salary Schemes, the wage rate of employees who are subject to the requirement of article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education. Dear colleagues, there is nothing new about this bill. The Education Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council, provides that teachers, I mean representatives of education, third and fourth levels of accreditation, are set at the level of double average wages for industrial workers. This is what has already been written in the Ukrainian Education Act. And the teaching staff at the first, second level of accreditation, well, I mean in particular the teachers at the general education school, there's a wage of no lower than the average wage of industrial workers. The stated provisions of the law were halted by a 97-2000 train due to the lack of a budget target. And the State budgets of 2001-5 years were defined by certain limits. In particular, it was envisaged that the provisions and rules provided for in paragraphs 11, 12 of Part One and in Part Two, Part Two, paragraph 57 were in place within the budgetary allocations for the remuneration of work as defined by the Cabinet. In our view, this bill will help to remove, first of all, the tensions that have arisen in the education sector and will help the educational environment to implement the tasks that are defined by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' programme of work, “Meet people”, namely, restoring the respect of the teacher in society, guaranteeing the workers of education of decent wages. Of course, these costs require additional budget spending, and so at first, I think, we, dear colleagues, need to adopt this bill, and then we need to anticipate it. If this fiscal year fails, in 2006, at least for the next fiscal year, teachers will actually have the salary they are worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u144	Yes, please, from the Committee of Sergei Ivanovich Doroguntsov, deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u145	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to place your weight on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u146	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u147	The draft law proposed by Proscuratov aimed at improving the provision of education workers by a minimum standard, because to date their standard of living, the level of pay remains beggarly. We also adopted the Education Act here in the Supreme Council that a pedagogical worker should pay at the average wage of industrial workers and a pedagogical worker at the level of a double average wage for industrial workers. I want to tell you that this is the minimum, the minimum that we can compare to industry, because I think the qualifications of a teacher, the qualifications of a teacher, the qualifications of a higher school teacher should be compared not to the average qualification of an industrial worker, but to the most qualified representatives in industrial manufacturing. That's why it's a minimum, a minimum. But the implementation of this law requires some financial resources. It's expected that over the course of five years, it's going to take about 11 billion dollars. Of course, this law can only be implemented as of January 1, 2007, when the new draft budget, the new budget for 2007, is coming back. This is going to be about two billion dollars per year. The sum is quite real to people who make spiritual riches. Our society. But I'd like to add another one to that. The Committee on Science and Education supported the project by a majority of votes. The Ministry of Finance does not support it. The Ministry of Science and Education does not support it. Both the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers in Tomenka's person do not support it. But I think
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u148	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u149	That's the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Mikhail Volintz, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin. We're going to vote now. People's deputies will come, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u151	Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners! The draft law before us is really necessary and relevant. If we look at the ratio today of the salaries of teachers and the average wages of industrial workers, we see an impressive difference. The young teacher who came to work after the Institute was 4 times less than the average wage on industry. And the teacher who's got the benefit of seniority, the class leadership, etc., is twice as low. And that's because there's a piece of legislation. The average salary, salary rates for science and teaching workers are set at a level not lower than the average wage for industrial workers. It is worth noting that the operation of this norm in our country, where the slogan “Teacher - Worthy of Wage ” continues to be halted by the law on budget. Because of the lack of funds. That's how the state takes care of the educated. Such pauses have long led to fair indignation on the part of teachers and debt creation. Therefore, in summary, I would like to support this draft law, as its adoption will contribute to the social protection of teaching workers, to improving their material status and to fulfilling the State's obligations to teachers regarding payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act of 1997-2000. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u152	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine”, please. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! You know, we're late for this project. It was filed in March 2005. And yet in March, I repeat, and even then, there were also expert conclusions on it, and everything was completely. It is asked: “Why then did we not consider this bill before adopting the budget and before making changes to the budget you have made.” Now we didn't have enough money to move foreign government delegations across the border, we added them quietly, even without informing society, we voted so clearly that no one even understood what he was voting for. We understood, we knew, we were just hiding. Why was the project not implemented? I'll tell you, it's the right project, and it's very simple. Here is one sentence: To supplement Article 6 with a paragraph of this content: “To bring into line with the requirements of Article 57 on the education of salary schemes, rates, salaries for employees who are subject to the requirement of Article 57 of the Education Act”. He did not speak of the beggarly position of teachers and teachers unless he was lazy. Unless the sloth said it was the premeditation of corruption in these institutions, especially in the higher educational institutions that everyone was fighting, but no one had ever fought. This is why it is about the implementation of the Education Act and the famous article 57. For many years, this law has not been fully implemented since 1997. No year has it been fulfilled, but it exists and causes a serious, serious crisis. It seems to me that a new government that is different from an old one, especially by promising to abide by the laws, should support the adoption of this law. The only thing we have to write is that this law will come into force since 2007, because it can't come into force right now, because we don't have conclusions, we don't have calculations, and we only have an estimate of about two billion. Two billion, Your Honor, is not the kind of money that can be invented right now. That's why I'm in favour of this law in both the first and the second readings. And I'd like the committee to agree. There's nothing more to go on. He needs to be accepted as a law. The only one to be written is that it comes into force on January 1, 2007. Here comes the Jury Carmazin block, other decent people come here and vote, take responsibility for the government. Yes, agitation, you're telling the truth! But agitation is good. We'll take responsibility if you want. You can't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u154	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Prepare for the Truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u155	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honourable National MPs, honourable radio listeners, the draft law, as already said, provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, under which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine undertakes to introduce a scheme of official salaries for educational workers in accordance with article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. The Communist faction will support this bill. Our position was and remains constant and consistent: in order to revive education to the level that the whole world recognized the benefits of education, we need to promote the prestige of work in the field of education. The draft law that we're discussing is in some way contributing to this. And the faction of Communists, which has actively contributed to the adoption and the restructuring law, is proposing and amending it with regard to what is mentioned in this draft law. Of course, its implementation requires additional expenditure from the State Budget. Of course, it should be introduced from the beginning of the new budget period. But what needs to be introduced is almost no one has a doubt except the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education. These are strange organizations that think that education can only be restored in Ukraine at the expense of someone else's money, that is, at the expense of credit, and that there is no money for education for young people. Dear comrades, I want to say that this position is wrong. It takes money to finance education and training for young people. We already said that at the time of the adoption of the loan agreement. If there is no money in the state, that state is a state without a future. The State cannot count on the future if there is no funding for education and training for young people. So the communists will still vote in favour of this bill, because we stand for the future of Ukraine, and the future of Ukraine is educated and educated young people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u156	Sergei Truenka, please. Is there a Sergey Makarovich? Now, honourable colleagues, the fourth speaker, we need a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're wrong, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u157	I may not say anything, but you better criticize Carmazin, he's here more often. Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our faction believes that this bill is, of course, relevant and right and should be taken seriously. [[Lithuanian National Party faction]] But we also believe that he needs government approval because the burden of implementing the bill will lie directly with the government. And then here's what I want to say. This is about the restructuring of the years 1997-2000. I understand the authors who want to be "white and plump" today before the elections, but let's remember the time that was in power, who didn't collect all the taxes in the state, who divided the legal entities into their own and strangers, and then the budget had half the potential. And that goes on and on. I'm not afraid to say it in the rostrum, but in the past 14 years, up to a thousand billion dollars have passed through the State budget, so it's past the teacher's pocket, the doctor's, the militia's, the village council's secretary, and so on and so forth. Regrettably, wars have not been declared today. And today the state has no strategy for overcoming the shadow economy, in which there is no evil today. This is the main cause not only of the degradation of education, of culture and so forth - it is the main reason that we have become five million people less than these 14 years. I think we need to talk about this, talk about what we need to do in the budget at least possibly 90 to 92 percent, I'm not talking about all 100 because it's fantastic. And then to solve the problems of both doctors and teachers. And please take this as an order from the electorate to the next House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u158	Dear people's deputies, please. Please, Proscurat microphone. Well, you want to see another document, don't you?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u159	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. First of all, I thank all the deputies who have spoken and examined this bill. But as to who was in power, I don't know, for example, which of these deputies in this room were in power in 1997 and 2000, but the author of the bill, particularly I, worked as a teacher at school at that time. So it had absolutely nothing to do with power at the time. But I take responsibility for everything that is said. But as Confucius said, the biggest mistake is not to correct mistakes. And so, if this has happened, let's now correct this mistake and support the bill for all the members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Tamara Sergiyevna, the teacher’s greatest position and highest position, because she has the souls and hearts of people. But the important thing is that this position is unappreciative, worthy, and more accurate. Dear colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in Article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and Other Categories of Teachers, on Staff Salaries. Registration number 6488. Please vote. [[14:00:01]] For 254 Decision taken. There's a warning. I can't do it in general. Dear colleagues, there are warnings. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Wait a minute, we agreed to bring here the clarification that goes into effect on January 1st. Sergei Slabenko. I think you can withdraw the warning that goes into effect on January 1, 2007. I'm not asking you to sit there. I want you to sit down again. When asked, you will answer. Honorable national deputies, since there are various kinds of warnings, please work with the committee, agree with the Government. Let's put it to a vote on Thursday. I'm asking you, you take your time, you're not in the Cabinet meeting, you're in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 57 of the Education Act, registration number 7506, has been announced for consideration. [[on Credits for Payments]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u161	Thank you. First of all, I thank all the members of the Supreme Council who supported that bill that I reported. Dear colleagues, this bill, this bill is also very important to our teachers, but we know all the problems about what has happened, particularly in rural schools and urban villages. When teachers are unable to go to work, they would be happy to go, but the problem is acute. Of course, there is a bill on taxes and youth loans. But what to do to a teacher who's already out of his youth and after that youth loan he can't take the bill, don't bother, he can't take the money. And that's why this bill helps to solve teachers' housing problems first. Because as deputies, I'm sure there was more than one teacher addressing this issue. The bill therefore proposes that the State be legally guaranteed as a social guarantee to pedagogical and pedagogical workers the right to receive housing, to receive long-term benefits for construction and housing. The solution to the housing issue is extremely relevant, especially now that the granting of free housing by the State has almost ceased. And so, dear colleagues, I will not continue to explain the relevance of this problem. I think we'll all support him, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u162	continued for up to 15 minutes. We'll have a discussion, everything will follow procedure. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u163	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You've already heard from the report that it's about giving credit to teachers and not just teachers, and to science teachers who live, we'll say, in very modest conditions. Many of them don't have housing at all, especially in rural areas and young teachers and science teachers. It is meant that in order to provide loans for construction, reconstruction, improvement of the living conditions of teaching, science and teaching workers, about 5 billion dollars will be needed to start. In this regard, it is proposed that this law be introduced into force on January 1, 2007. The committee supported such a proposal. The committee supported this, this legislative initiative, the bill. At the same time, it should be said that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice, the Tomenka Cabinet and the Ministry of Education are abstaining from supporting this bill. I think this is largely due to their expectation of such pressure during 2006, but now this solution is delayed for 2007. I want to say that in addition to the committee, our faction of the Company of Ukraine also supports this bill. It will provide an opportunity to improve the lives of our society's gold fund – teachers, science and teaching staff. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u164	Yeah, let's get down to business. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, very briefly, please, if you have any comments, reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u165	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, the wonderful truth is that if the state does not invest money in education, in the teacher, in the student, in the education system, it will invest money in the prison system. I mean, the jailer, the prisoner, and someone else. Because it is quite clear that our faction supports this bill in every way. Of course, in a normal, civilized system every person, every Ukrainian citizen must have the right to take credit for building housing. But since we have a teacher today in a particularly terrible situation, of course, I don't think any of us will dare vote against this bill and let that hand dry who will do it in this room. Oh, last thing I want to say. I have the impression that some of my colleagues, whom I highly respect, have this phrase underneath them about what they say sclerosis is impossible to cure, it can only be forgotten. Thus, those who ascend to this rostrum and six months after Nicholas Tomenka’s resignation say that he manifests himself and is still opposed to giving these benefits to his teachers, something with memory may not be the same. Check it out. I've just talked to Fomenko. We vote in favour, and think of your memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u166	Mikola Sadowa. Dear colleagues, if they insist, let's go through the procedure so there's no charges. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u167	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party, Kirovograd district. If I am working alone in a college and a young teacher who has to come to work and there are about 30 graduates coming to work who finish teaching colleges and have to break this tradition. A young teacher should come and have some basis, and this is the basis for life: (1) housing, somewhere to live; (2) if a teacher comes to the village, he has to eat somewhere; and the food problem is a problem; (3) wages and transportation. These are four problems that need to be solved for a teaching family or simply for a young teacher. As far as housing is concerned, we have some statistics of 547 thousand teachers. Of this category of teachers, about 50,000 need housing support, or some way of obtaining housing. One of the real ways to do this is to get credits, to get credits for teachers and science teachers. So the socialists are dividing this view, supporting the bill will vote in favour of the bill. And with regard to the Ministry of Education and the position of the Ministry of Education, I have clarified this position, this bill was submitted before the budget was prepared, and as the introduction of the bill will take place from 1 January 2007, the Ministry of Education and Science already has a different perspective that tends to positively address this issue. So once again, I urge you to support this bill, it is positive, and it needs to be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u168	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u169	Radionov, the Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! As my colleague, Drogunzev Sergey Ivanovich, said, the Communist faction will support this bill for granting credit to teachers and educators. The Communists hope that the adoption of this law will contribute to the self - education of students, to the greater attractiveness of the teaching profession, to the positive effect of young people’s desire to work in the field of education. Of course, we don't have full confidence that that's what's going to happen. The basis for this is that article 55 of the Education Act, an existing article, already provided for positions that guarantee the rights of teachers and academics to credit for individual and cooperative construction. Perhaps you would say, “Well, what? ” And you could say, "That's nothing." The Cabinet of Ministers has not yet been able to develop an order for the granting of these loans and the identification of the source of their funding. And that, in my opinion, is the solution to this housing problem. Please tell the teacher who can build or borrow housing credit for his income or salary. If such a person finds himself, he must be declared a man of the year. There is no such possibility in our teachers. So the communists have, of course, claimed and argued that the way out of the state of emergency with housing for low-security population groups is our teachers and doctors. Engineers, peasants, workers, that is, the majority of the population who live, as they say, are barely living, is the way out of this in return for a government order to build housing for these citizens. There's no other way out. But we'll expect better. And the Communists invite you to vote in favour of this bill, although it has one prospect that was before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u170	Yes, Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u171	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Head, colleagues, once again for our radio audience, the bill proposes to introduce extended loans for construction, reconstruction and housing for teaching and teaching staff. The People's Party faction will support these changes to 57 articles of the Education Act. And what's more, we're offering these loans to make them interestless. Then you can actually talk about the country's just and social policy. Today, in order to dispel the slightest doubts about the purpose of such a step, let us ask ourselves, ‘ Who would want his children or grandchildren to be taught to teachers without housing, without shelter? In a word, a specialist who is concerned about the need to buy a bag in the market to move from place to place for his grain or who has been offered an offer from the owner of the home to release it is a home, that is, a professional who cannot make ends meet because he is forced to pay an irreparable price for his rent, leaves the family on bread and water. So after destroying and losing almost everything that the native pedagogical celebrated and why he was not jealous, believe me, jealous! – a full and self-sufficient West, we should not hesitate to look at the ruins in which the whole or the most important field of social life has been found. In addition to the humanistic benefits, the support of extended credit for education as a social guarantee for the state will also help to increase the attractiveness of teaching, teaching, and teaching. In addition, this state’s concern will have a positive effect on the desire of young people with pedagogical education to go to school as well as on the prestige of the profession as a whole. So the faction of the People's Party of the People's Block of Lithuania will support this bill and ask a colleague to support this bill in general and in the first as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u172	Dear National Deputies! Discussion. Matvienkov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u173	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I'll ask everyone to calm down and take that euphoria off. I understand that there are really problems with the staff at school today. Indeed, there are problems with teacher housing. But I'm reluctant to ask when I was listening to everyone today. Have you ever looked at housing prices? What kind of credit is it that we're talking about today? Even if you give your teacher an interest-free loan, he can barely make ends meet, he doesn't have enough pay to live from pay to pay! He'll be shutting down your loans for 50 years if you give him a free living at the price that he has today. A comprehensive programme to address these issues is therefore needed, not some promises, which are unclear. Because today the teacher will listen to all these speeches and say, this is how Parliament really cares about giving us credit today, and we will get all the housing. Tomorrow. But from this law. Yeah, we'll vote for him, no questions asked. But teachers need to know clearly that the solution to this situation is zero in the way it is proposed. Let us look for a normal way to address the problem of teachers rather than talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, there are two. Matthew was written down. There are two ways out of this situation, dear colleagues. Please calm down! There are two ways out of this situation: either offer something else, because then the Supreme Council doesn't make bad decisions, or the second, let's organize and share with people. I think it'll be something too. It's the easiest way to talk about it. Please make an offer. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending article 57 of the Education Act, registration number 7506. [[on Credits for Payments]] Please vote. [[14:17:03]] For 247 Decision taken. They took it as a foundation. Dear colleagues, there is a denial, I have no right! Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov, please. There's one piece of information. Please don't break up, dear fellows! We need to make a point right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, half a minute. We passed the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Intelligence. For technical reasons, however, the text under consideration was not agreed on by the Committee and previously agreed in the General Legal Office of the Supreme Council by paragraph 7 of the eighth article of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which should be provided that the intelligence authorities have no right to disclose and identify the traces of a serious or particularly serious crime. It's a request to reflect it in the text of the law, it's very principled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-21-m0.u176	Should we vote on this proposal or what? We have to vote for this proposal because otherwise it will not be understood. I'm voting on this proposal to the committee. Please vote. [[14:18:29]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Let's who's in favour of getting back to this amendment, please vote. [[14:18:57]] For 202 The decision is not taken. I ask the committee then to work with the argument. Honorary colleagues, announcements: in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Neciporuk Vladimir Pavlovich, as part of the MP’s Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Kirilovich, as part of the party's “Reforms and Orders”. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue the plenary session from 10 a.m. to Thursday. Since 15 o'clock, we've been working on committees and factions. Thank you for your fruitful cooperation.
