ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. They registered in the 409 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I am informing you of the departure of the national deputies of Kobec Olga Semenovna and Sitnik Kostin Merkuryovich from the MP’s bloc of Yulia Timoshenko and their membership in the MP’s faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy Ioffe Yulia Yakovović into the Chamber’s Social Democratic Party. [[united]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Vladimir Kirilovich, from the Ukrainian People’s Party. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the withdrawal of the National Deputy of Ukraine’s Parliamentary Volodymyr Alexanderovich from the MP’s political party “Reform and Order” and his membership in the MP’s faction of Yulia Timoshenko: the political party of the All-Ukrainian union “Fatherschina”, the Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Dear National Deputies! In line with the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, another Government Day is held at the morning session in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By rulings of 8 September and 3 November 2005, the Supreme Council set out its topic “On the state and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine” and the second question “Fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES”. The government appointed Igor Dmitrovitch Likhov and Minister of Culture and Tourism for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population, respectively, as the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Igor Dmitrovich Likhovov and Minister of Public Health, who identified the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. You've been given information and help materials on issues that are proposed for consideration at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Respectful colleagues, considering that two issues are being considered today, are being asked to establish such an order. From the first question — the state and prospects of preservation of cultural heritage — the rapporteur proposes to give 15 minutes and 35 minutes to answer written and oral questions. For a speech by a representative of the profile committee, within 15 minutes, we will hold a debate on this issue within 30 minutes. Three minutes for the show. No warning? To consider the second question of the 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station, it is also suggested that the reporter give 15 minutes for the performance, 35 minutes for the answers to the written and oral questions. In order to make a presentation, the profile committee should be given up to 10 minutes. Then hold the debate for 30 minutes from the second question. No warning? Then let us turn to the first question. “On the state and prospects of the preservation of the cultural heritage of Ukraine”. The report invites Culture and Tourism Minister Igor Dmitrovitch Lichovov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u2	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers, to thank you very much for your constant attention to one of the most important aspects of the nation’s cultural development: the issue of protection and preservation of the national heritage. In recent times, and practically every year, this hall has witnessed the fruitful cooperation of the government and parliament in the field of protecting and preserving national acquisitions. In addition, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, memory activists meet at various meetings, extended colleges, round tables, and so forth. The result of this cooperation is new legislation, some steps in the development of a regulatory framework, and finally, steps in our nation's sure progress towards the European community and the world community. This good tradition, hopefully we'll support and develop. The issue of preservation of cultural heritage is an important component of State policy in the sphere of culture and art. The Constitution of Ukraine, the fundamentals of cultural legislation, the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act set out the State's priority for creating conditions for the preservation, reproduction and protection of the cultural and historical environment, namely, the State in the priority order ensures accounting, protection, preservation, proper maintenance, proper use, conservation, restoration, rehabilitation, museums and other conservation measures. Furthermore, according to the international conventions signed and ratified by Ukraine, the protection of cultural heritage in its territory, especially immovable monuments, is an international obligation of our State to the world community. But above all, we have the highest responsibility for our cultural heritage toward our parents and grandparents, including our offspring. Ukraine has preserved a large number of still cultural heritage objects in its territories, beginning with the parking of an early paleolithic in a townlike village. The vineyard area of Zakarpat, about a million years old, of Kiril’s parking in Kiev, which is nearly 40,000 years old, up to the very young monuments of architecture and monumental art built only in the last century. The world is well - known for its list of UNESCO’s world heritage, the architectural units of Sofia Kyiv and Cave Lavra in Kiev, the Council of Saint George in the historic center of Lviv. Regrettably, only three objects of Ukraine’s numerous cultural heritage are listed on this prestigious UNESCO World Heritage List. More than 11 million monuments are stored in museums and reserves, 5,377 exhibitions in museums and more than 3,000 exhibitions in various regions of Ukraine during the past year alone. 21 international projects have been carried out, exhibiting monuments from museums abroad. In 2004, museums and reserves visited nearly 18 million fans of Ukrainian antiquity and art. In recent years, there has been some improvement in the financing of the museum industry. In particular, major repairs were made by the National Museum of Literature in Ukraine. The Kyiv literary memorial museum of Mikoli Zhajana, the Museum of Historical Treasures of Ukraine, the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk in Kiev and the Shevchenkov National Reserve in Canev continue to be renovated. A complex effort has been made to repair the National Museum of History of the Great War of 1941-1945. Quite a lot of money was also allocated, literally, recently, a month ago, in the form of a subsidy to the regions of Ukraine from the state budget. Also foreseen are some amounts, of course, that do not satisfy us, and in the 2006 budget. In 2003 the Ministry of Culture and Arts began to carry out full verification of the availability of museum objects with state-owned documentation of the Ukrainian Museum Foundation. I would like to inform you that, actually, with the beginning of my work as Minister of Culture and Tourism, a large-scale memorial inventory program is being launched. Because we need to know what the Ukrainian people have, the Ukrainian nation. It is generally known that millions of such monuments are stored in museums that no one has seen or known, except scientists, when they become known to the general public. At the same time, the development of the museum is constantly faced with many problems. I'll take the liberty of identifying the most important of them, and hopefully, in the course of the discussion, the answers to the questions will be able to use your time rationally and produce an action programme in the near future and strategic directions. Above all, this is a lack of financial support for the activities of public museums and restoration. The amount of expenditure from the State budget and the local museum budget is barely enough to pay for work, energy supplies, security, and utilities. There is a lack of funds to replenish museum funds, repair restoration works, install alarms, and upgrade museum equipment. Lack of funding does not allow the creation of a national register of cultural acquisitions to be completed. For this reason it is impossible to start a reconstruction of the National Art Museum of Ukraine, which is assessed as close to an emergency. In particular, toward the beginning of 2004, restoration interventions required nearly 700,000 museum monuments. During the year, only 12,000 were restored, accounting for less than two percent of the need. All other work is done by cultural heritageists in places, museums, whether national or district, or, for example, district. In order to develop the legislative security of the museum sector, a number of issues have been addressed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Museums and Museums and a series of instructions on the calculation of the storage and use of museum objects. The Ministry created an interdisciplinary working group to resolve differences in the calculation of museum objects and museum collections. The main task for the coming year is to settle the requirements of Ukraine's accounting laws and museums and museums regarding the collection of museum objects. Among the priorities for museum development, the Ministry will focus its efforts on: first, the legal settlement of museums and other institutions that protect the monuments of the nonstate part of the museum. The other one. Strengthening the material and technical base of the museum and reserves, establishing the National Register of National Cultural Acquisitions, computerization of core activities and museums mainly through the creation of a centralized database, the Museum Fund of Ukraine, an electronic version of the National Register of National Cultural Acquisitions. This will enable us not only to bring treasures closer to the citizens of Ukraine and to the guests of our country but also to make the matter of intervention transparent in the national sanctuary. In addition, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine, together with the Kyiv Ministry of State, should immediately address the issue of the reconstruction of the National Museum of Art of Ukraine, the provision of its own premises of the National Research and Restoration Centre of Ukraine, the creation of a museum complex called the Mystacké Arsenal. I want to take a separate stop on this project, which is so little known today, unfortunately, in Ukraine, but so many have already given rise to objections. In fact, the Art arsenal is not an end in itself. With its implementation, we will be able to deal with the problems that have accumulated over the past few decades for the central museums of Kiev, while creating a museum research facility that will be able to deliver the gains of the development of Ukrainian civilization from the earliest times to the present. All regions of Ukraine, ethnic lands outside Ukraine, the culture of diaspora, if it is, and it is, a national culture, should be represented in the Art arsenal. From year to year, the state has been increasing its spending on cultural heritage financing. An example is the financing of reserves that have become important centers for preserving national acquisitions. Over the course of three years, funding has increased almost twice. The average wage of employees, especially national reserves, has also increased, reaching a thousand dollars today. It should be noted that for the humanitarian sphere it is quite high. Every year there is an increase in the cost of restoration, repair, and repair work. Only this year has 2.5 times been increased compared to last year's funding of renovation and restoration works on architectural monuments, especially the Shevchenkov National Reserve, Horticia, the Golden Horseshoes of Cherkaščina. Work is ongoing on national monuments in the cities of Lviv, Kamyanzi Podilski, Eupatoria, Baturini, Deaf, Bottom, Kanevi. The government will continue its efforts to increase the financing of the sector. Yet, as world practice has shown, no country fully ensures the need to finance the security of the sector at the expense of the budget. The local communities, large businesses, provide considerable help. By the way, this is an ancient tradition of the Ukrainian nation, the community is responsible for the monuments, because they reflect its history, its progress, and thus its economic prospects, if this is true of the tourism sector. Examples of this work are the cities of Kiev and Zaporozhye. Today, the government is working on a concentration of efforts to create the right conditions for investing in the protection of the sphere, and it should give due credit to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, who, by his own example, is contributing to the involvement of metzenites. At first, our country is well - known for its metenates: the names of Hanenkov, Tereshchenk, Brodsky, Semirenkov, Tarnovsky, and many other Ukrainian dignitaries have not only entered the golden pages of our history, but are a testimony, first and foremost, to the culture of our nation and its high development throughout the ages. I'm sorry to say, but for some reason today, such pearls are also threatened by modern vandals. At any rate, as a minister, I cannot name at least one or two resonant criminal cases involving violations of existing legislation regarding the preservation of national or local monuments. The scandalous nature has been gained by the mass facts of the embezzlement and the laws of privatization of the land of historical and cultural preserves, particularly in Crimea and around Trachtomirov in Cherkaščina. In order to obtain the maximum revenue from the construction of conjunctural objects, permits were issued for the construction of modern objects in the historic centers of inhabited areas. Sadly, however, the palm of priority in this regard to the historical environment continues to be held by the capital of Kiev, ancient Lviv, Odessa, Crimea. As you can see, all the regions are united here. Sadly, our cities have been losing their face for centuries. As far as Kiev is concerned, it seems that this city is experiencing the second tragedy of the 1930s when it lost its status as capital, and then the Soviet authorities were trying to rebuild it into a model socialist city. You know, it cost us the face of our national sanctuary. And in an independent Ukraine, we are witnessing the disappearance of old houses in the picturesque parts of old Kiev, the destruction of the ancient Kiev gates of the 12th century, the construction near the walls of St. Sofia and the church, the new urbanities, often. Buildings on Wołodimir Street, Baptism and elsewhere. These facts give rise to a fair indignation on the part of the public. And it's obviously a matter of time. You remember how active society is, regardless of political power, orientation, or, for example, ethnic origin, all unite around the protection of national shrines. Today, on the day of the apostle Andrew the First One, who legendaryly sanctified the hills of Kiev and prophesied many hundreds of years ago a wonderful future for our city, we must tell ourselves that we will preserve this city and pass it on to our descendants. The government is extremely concerned about this state of affairs and has no moral right to leave this situation alone; we will intervene in every matter, since there is no secondary or triennial memory; all the monuments must be preserved. We look forward to fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I hope you will also hear me, at least for five minutes, by paying attention to what the government minister is reporting. And by doing so, you will pay your due respect to the problems that you have brought to the meeting of the Supreme Council today. I want to personally thank all those who have joined in, join in, and join in the preservation of the memory, since that is what we will enter into history. The situation is being personally controlled by the President of Ukraine. It is deeply symbolic that the first of the documents to be developed and approved by the government is the order of giving and removal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u3	Allow me to finish the speech. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u4	If you'll excuse me. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u6	I would like to focus on the issues on which the government will be working, and I look forward to constructive cooperation and assistance to Parliament. This is the creation of a legislative base in the area of protection of cultural heritage, which is unfortunately not satisfactory today. And I want to assure you that it's those remarks that I'm obviously going to hear today, because we have a huge supply of questions, suggestions that came in the process of preparing for our hearing. For example, only the national deputy John the Rabbit made 25 suggestions will be included in the development of the plan of activities of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, our regional representations at the site of the 2006 plan. Thank you for your attention and for your constructive and fruitful cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u7	Thank you, Igor Dmitrovich. Yes, dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. One question is written, the other one is directly from you. Please, Igor Dmitrovitch, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u8	Many questions came from the Supreme Council Committee on Culture and Spirituality. “In Ukraine, state policy in the area of protection of cultural heritage is implemented by two structures – the State Department for Protection of Cultural Heritage as a government body of state administration within the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine and the State Ministry of Ukraine. Such a situation of higher protection authorities does not allow for a single and effective state policy in the area of protection of cultural heritage. Why does the Cabinet of Ministers, for five years, stubbornly ignore part one of the third article of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which provides for the creation of a single central executive body in the area of cultural heritage protection? Questions are obviously the most up - to - date. I want to briefly say that today's government is working, as you know, for only two months, and the creation of a single body in the sphere of culture and cultural heritage requires not only the transfer of certain powers, but also relevant organizations that carry out scientific, scientific and design, restoration and technological preservation of monuments. I want to inform you, of course, that the Ministry of Culture has recently operated two units. One of them is the government office, as well as a separate department of the museum. In the near future, since we couldn't do it even two weeks ago, the President only issued a decree on 2 December to approve the new situation. Ministry of Culture and Tourism. These two units will be unified, reinforced, and thus we will have all the prerequisites of at least an organizational plan, preparing documents for the creation of a single body, as provided for by law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u9	Yes, Safiullin, faction "Ukraine" please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u10	Surrender your word to Stoyan Aleksandr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u11	Come on, dear fellows, I beg of you! Buiko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u12	George Boiko, Communist faction. Igor Dmitrovitch, I have three questions. Why is the ministry not working well with public organizations, such as memory protection? And your report didn't exactly say this cooperation. That's the first one. The other one. What the Ministry is doing to stop. Stop the vachanal of the destruction of the Great Homeland War in Western regions? And how does your ministry relate to the commercial forgetfulness of the historic landscape of Kiev and the destruction of the historical monuments in our capital? In particular, let me give you an example, the creative workshop of the famous sculptor of Znoba and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Well, first of all, why does the Ministry of Culture have bad cooperation with public organizations? I wouldn't say bad. In fact, the minister of culture has been one of the activists of the Ukrainian Society for Cultural Heritage for many years, and I know that the head of this society is also represented in the Supreme Council. And with the All-Ukrainian Society of Foreigners and other societies. In fact, what they did, these organizations, let's say, under the conditions of the 70s, the 80s, in the early 1990s, today are much smaller possibilities, slightly different times. But I hope, and in my report, I pointed out that apparently these two great whales: The Supreme Council, the Government and the efforts of public organizations will help us solve the mature and painful problems in the area of cultural heritage protection. What the ministry does to protect the monuments of the Great Homeland War, especially in the Western ones, I think it's worth talking about both the eastern regions and the southern regions and the central ones and the northern ones. Of course, it is a tradition, and it is not best when we mention the monuments just before the Jubilee. The Ministry does its best to preserve these monuments. Today, apparently, it is time for us to realize that everything that has taken place in the territories of our land, our territory that today bears the name of the State of Ukraine, must be preserved, purposeful, museumd, and properly evaluated. And no one has the right to destroy the testimony of events. On the other hand, we will mention that respected colleagues, who are very much remembered, and since such sacrifices were made by our nation, our people were brought under the conditions of the Great Homeland War, many of the monuments were made of immeasurable materials. Many of them are located — brotherly graves above all — in places that are not accessible, the demographic situation has changed. You know that in many villages today there are perhaps two or three residents, or even more brotherly graves, than at least those who are to care for them. I think that the Ministry of Culture -- in my plans, I've been talking about this -- after carrying out the inventory of the monuments, it shouldn't be based on political motives, but first and foremost on the memory-protection positions that are considered professional throughout the world. And whether it is a Western region or an eastern region, we really have to explain often to the leaders of local authorities, who are very repetitively carrying out, as it were, a reorientation of such or other political forces that monuments are eternal. They come into this position temporarily, just like we do, by the way, is life. The principal position — the Ministry of Culture — is to preserve what is called a monument. Because when we talk about funerals, I apologize, it's important that the burial of a soldier who protected the native land, even the burial of someone who was not driven here by his will and also died, should be celebrated. Because they are also human. Third, the attitude toward the situation in Kiev. The Ministry of Culture is concerned about the construction in Kiev. Obviously, you know that too. How many prescriptions are sent to the Kiev City Administration. I will say that the city of Kiev has, unfortunately, lost its face in recent years. One of my short trips was to meet with fellow ministers of European culture in Lisbon. And you know, I was amazed at what Lisbon looks like now, like it looked 100 years ago. There is no modern - day house in the central part of Lisbon. And I believe that the city of Kiev is not only owned by the Kiev City Administration, and we will eventually have a law that states that the establishment of monuments in the capital should be decided on the level of law that the Supreme Council will adopt, many countries do so. In Washington, D.C., it was impossible to place a monument to Taras Shevchenkov until Congress passed the Law. This is not about the city of Washington -- it's about the legislative power of the whole state. We're going to build a job with you, we're going to solve a lot of problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u14	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u15	The Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act refers, inter alia, to the cultural heritage authorities of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts of Kyiv and Sevastopol City, the district government administrations. In five years, however, such organs were formed only in Crimea, Zakarpatski, Odessa, and Kiev. In other regions there are cultural heritage departments with a state of 2-8 units or district inspections of 4 to 16 units. Thus, there is no system of cultural heritage protection as the only conservation policy in Ukraine. The question is that the Supreme Council, by decree No. 1351-4 of 27.11.03, recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers amend the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 1805. In 2000, complete the lists of administrations, departments, and other structural units. Sadly, though, this has not been done to the full. What does this have to do with anything? Why is it that the Cabinet of Ministers, on which the enforcement functions of the law are laid, ignores these norms? In fact, Les Stepanovich Tanyuk, chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, asked the question. The question has a basis, no doubt. I just can't agree that the Cabinet of Ministers is ignoring it. That's not true. Once again, dear companion, we have with you a clear determination that Kiev, whatever this powerful Ministry of Culture and Tourism, cannot guarantee the full protection of the 11 million mobile and immovable monuments that exist in Ukraine. This is also a community matter. And when there's a regular schedule in cultural and tourism administrations, and now we're looking at them, there's new leaders coming in, and we're asking questions about what needs to be created for the protection of cultural heritage. Now in places, a lot of people realize that this will bring cultural heritage to representational appearance, to museum it, and thus develop the unique economic potential of green tourism, especially in rural areas or cultural tourism, as was the case in the previous state, you remember when you were traveling to another city, you and I didn't visit restaurants, we visited museums, we visited theaters, we visited art galleries, we took part in festivals. This was the concept of “cultural tourism”. We've got a turning point. But first of all, again, I think, and by assigning the executive heads to the local authorities, we have to evaluate their work, which they did directly with regard to the preservation of the cultural heritage. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism or its predecessor, the Ministry of Culture and Arts, has prepared the necessary legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u16	Peter Petrovich Toloczko, faction of the National Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u17	Dear Igor Dmitrovich, I have two small questions. Igor Dmitrovitch, look here, look at me. The first question is, please tell me, from your report, is a more or less successful memory protection situation, twice as much funding has been increased, there and so on. I'd like you to say in absolute numbers how protection is financed, restoration, repairs in absolute numbers from the needs of this sector. And the second question. As it happened in UNESCO, our president opened a speech in the memory of the Tripoli culture, half of which comes from black collections that are safe. There is no such thing in the world that such things are exhibited and presented by the president of a country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u18	Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. First of all, funding looks like this. The 2006 budget provides for the protection of the cultural heritage of 47 million dollars. Is that a lot or a lot? Obviously, no one here will say much. It's very small. Of these, 11 million dollars goes directly to renovation work. This is nearly one and a half times less than the highest achievements of the past and this year. We're still looking for reserves. Apparently, certain directions will be reoriented with your help, your esteemed colleagues, the direction of funding, but it has to be done first and foremost to ensure the functioning of the institutions, the wages. You know that we last year, this year's salary was raised to a pretty tolerable size, of course, in comparison. As far as funding for culture and art is concerned, I want to remind you that over 500 million, less than 600 million for the next year, is about 0.44 percent of the total budget of Ukraine, we're not even within two percent of what we've approved in this room in our own time, I don't say 4 percent of what happens in our neighbors. But again, it's obviously here from the minister to ask about funding something incorrect, it's correct to ask about the coefficient of useful use of these funds. With regard to the use of museum objects in private collections in Ukraine or outside Ukraine, I would like to remind you that, according to the Law on Museums and Museums, the Museum Fund of Ukraine consists of two parts: the state component and the private component. In fact, the time has come for us to examine the existence in our private hands of extremely valuable cultural objects and determine their origins. Legalize if the law allows this to be done or made available by law, evidently through the courts, remove them and join the state inheritance. Today, I want to remind you that those museums that we are proud of: this is, let's say, the Chernigov Museum, which created its own time from the Tarnovsky collection; this is the Dnipropetrovsk Museum, which, in its own time, created the Javornicky Academy of Sciences; this is also the Hanenka Museum in Kiev, Tereshchenka; this is the National Museum in Lviv, which from the private collection began to create Andriy Šepticki, and many others testify that Ukraine had very good European traditions in its time, the world-class tradition of private collection. Under certain conditions, private collectors were placed, involved in the state of enemies, their collections were removed, often destroyed, by the way, but such a reality, a respected colleague. What happened in UNESCO, I witnessed it. In UNESCO, there was tremendous success on the 60th anniversary of the creation of this respected organization, a huge success of Ukraine. The head of UNESCO, Mr. Matsuro, was at the opening of this exhibition. The exhibition was created and shown within the framework of current legislation, since private collection items were transferred to a deposit at the National Museum of History of Ukraine. [[There's only part of them]] And actually, I'm sorry, not the private person, not Taruta or anyone else, but the National Museum of History of Ukraine. The origin of this item, as a minister, I have no recourse from the investigating authorities or the Attorney General's Office or the Ministry of Internal Affairs to say that, say, this object is criminal, illegal. Obviously, everyone in this country has to do his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u19	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u20	I'd like to ask you a question like this. Why are only 77 museum and cultural scientists, including the Kharkiv Academy of Culture and Arts, 43 specialists and the Kyiv National University of Culture, trained by 34 specialists, and not being trained at all? Answer. According to the list of directions and specialties followed by the preparation of experts in higher educational institutions at appropriate educational and professional levels, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the specialty “museum business” and “protection of history and culture monuments” and “restoration of art” are in line with the direction “culture and art”, the specialty “architural restoration” of the listed list is missing. The question is very relevant, because, of course, when we talk about professional memory protection, not amateurism, it's very important when the broadest community of citizens is involved in the protection of the monuments, the public authorities, the diverse ones, because the protection of the monuments is not only a matter of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, it's a matter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it's a question of the Ministry of Defence, which is a matter of many unique monuments of world importance, both a monument to nature and a monument to history, it's a question of the State Academy of Sciences, it's a question of, by the way, of course, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Emergency. So I was in Chernobyl last week, I'm going to say that there's really a need to create a memory protection institution, because Lena Kostenko works, there's other people who can't leave the nation's unique treasures on their own. The National Academy of Art and Architecture is the only professional institution in the Minculture system for the preparation of building and building architecture within the framework of the architecture. Anyway, you know what's going on in this field, too, for several years now, is the training of specialists at the National University of Culture and Arts. But the problem is different. The problem is that graduates of these institutions are not often employed in government institutions, since the wages offered to young professionals are often absent and often absent. You know, the reserves are at a distance from the administrative centers. They do not allow them to inculcate their family, both creatively and decently, in order to preserve their cultural heritage. I'd like to ask your colleagues to pay attention to the fact that in many countries the Cultural Heritage Service is a service of extremely great powers given to them by the legislative authorities. These are so-called rangers who are government officials who have high insurance policies in case they lose health or life, protecting national value. And so when we can raise the profile of the keeper of history and culture, not only will we declare ourselves, so that we can increase demand in higher education institutions, and thus we will be able to improve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u21	Hiya Sergei, please ask me your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u22	Sergey Zizko, "Our Ukraine." Ukraine has experienced prolonged colonization, destructive military and ideological tsunamis, and in the 20th century alone, we have destroyed hundreds of temples exported to the museums of Petersburg, Moscow, and Cracow with thousands of relics. Today we also lose castles, the Scythians. Igor Dmitrovitch, would you please tell us what protection and preservation should be given priority in the years 2006-2007? What is being done to return collections from Petersburg and Moscow to Ukraine? And what steps will the Ministry take to establish in Ukraine a memorial of famine in Kiev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u23	The whole set of problems that really and not only reflect the state of memory protection is obvious, but the state of our society and the state of philosophy of life that exists now in Ukraine. In fact, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Ukraine has a list of priorities to focus on and, if you can call it, financial, budgetary, and human reserves. Well, first of all, we need to finish the restoration work we started in complexes that, by the way, are in an emergency condition, it's in Kiev-Pecher Lavre. You know, this year there's been a landslide, we have to warn there, because then a lot more money is going to be spent on renewables than, let's say, preventive renewables. It is also the National Reserve “Sofia”. It's also a whole set of issues that we have to solve in Horticia. There was a unique situation, you were a party to the conflict, and much depends today on how alone the government and the Supreme Council will work, so that building a bridge under the memorandum would obviously bring no less evil. It will truly bring evil. But in doing so, a full reserve was created, because, in large accounts, I wouldn't want to offend my colleagues, but to a large extent, the Hortic reserve was only declared 30 years ago, and the reserve had virtually no State Act on Earth, and it was not the owner. We spoke only and swore allegiance to our Cossack story. And an even more ancient story. Clearly, the funds that have been foreseen for this year are 233 million from the bridge budget, to a large extent, to protect the cultural heritage in Hortica to form a truly national reserve that could be a model for other reserves. As far as hunger is concerned, of course, today, I don't think there will be a person who can argue scientificly that there was no genocide against the Ukrainian people in 1932-1933 last century. Today, we are discussing how many millions have died — five, eight, or twelve. In fact, it's already a matter of course of scientists. But the tragedy that took place did not end, and the tragedy did not end. That tragedy exists in our society today — at the genetic level, at the level of our consciousness. And until there is repentance, until we give a material witness to this repentance. Of course, there is obviously no one to judge these crimes today, but we must condemn the crime itself. And I hope that in this way, through repentance, we will unite all those who want to build a just, worthy Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u24	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u25	“Is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine planning to create public advisory bodies and organizations at all levels, including representatives of the regional public, business and authorities, which would provide: firstly, public control over the use of budgetary resources for cultural heritage; secondly, the search and implementation of innovative projects aimed at preserving and developing cultural heritage. National Deputy of Ukraine, Olujko.” Thank you, my dear colleague, for this question. In fact, world practice shows that the cultural heritage or the activity of any museum is, above all, three main lines of funding. About a third is budgeted, government, for example, or regional, about a third is required as a result of its activities, although museums, reserves, art galleries are non-profit organizations, but they have to be within the framework of actual legislation for the implementation of tickets, for the implementation of measures to make money, and in the world it's about a third. And the third part is the funds that come from the sponsors, from the benefactors. This has been so in the traditions of our nation, so there is now in the world. To do this, by the way, we need to take the necessary legislative steps. I keep answering, literally came back yesterday from Lviv from the National Museum, where I gathered from all the regions of Ukraine to welcome my colleagues with a century of this museum when the law on metsenata activities is passed. When people who already have money and want to put it into construction, the restoration of national shrines will somehow be, well, interested in it on an economic level, not only by being literate for their contributions or by publishing in the newspaper. And for that, I think we need, indeed, again, as the Association for the Protection of Monuments in Ukraine once did, as the Ukrainian Association of Foreigners, as the Lion Society. We need to engage the public at large. In the Ministry of Culture, cultures are now being created, more faithful, expert advisory groups are being updated. So we came up with a solution to the construction of the art arsenal. There's also a decision not made by the President, as head of the Council, not by the Minister of Culture, as one of the Council's deputy heads, and there are expert councils from experts who make their own proposal. This decision is made for general consideration, approved and then implemented. Public control over the use of budgetary resources today is truly, indeed, extremely relevant. So you've heard what the cost of, well, 11 million next year is going to be approved by the Supreme Council. These are small costs, but on the website of the Ministry of Culture from the new year, we can see what amounts are directed, what object? How have they been used there? I think it's already a question of other control bodies, not just the Ministry of Culture. The search for and implementation of innovative projects aimed at the preservation and development of cultural heritage in Ukraine today also has its own, unprecedented scales, I would say. I've recently returned from Baturin, and you also know that this ruins, and in the eastern part of Ukraine in the rural region, are now coming out of the ashes. There will be more than a palace and more than a tourist infrastructure for the rest of the world. And we have to provide such internal tourism. This is the only thing that will enable us, the people of Donetsk, to understand, for example, that we belong to a great European culture by visiting Zacarpathia, Kyiv, Odessa, or Lviv. And on the contrary, to come to the Galicians for Lugansk or Kharkishte, to the Sumstin, to Chernigovishte, to Crimea, and to see the presence of deep national roots. Thus, I hear the desire of the daughters to go. I support this desire and we will help. I'm talking about the region. I'm sorry, guys. Don't react so well. I'd like to invite you to live in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u26	Please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u27	Please, I'm off the offer, you're breaking up. Everyone can come forward and say his or her offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u28	Please, Igor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u29	Please. And that's exactly how the art "Arsenal" is going to be built. This is how Melitopolska is going to be built, and I'm asking you not to insult the guards. About Zaporozhye district, the Stone of the Grave. There's a business structure that allocates money today. And the unity of government, of the Supreme Council, of local authorities, of business, of public efforts will give us an opportunity to decide. Mr. Oluiko, thank you for asking that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u30	Andrew School, faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u31	Thank you. I didn't think he was coming. He's been answering for so long, but what's interesting is all I can say. I just wish it were shorter. Sir, I would like to point out that it is very good to have a maintenance budget of up to 11 million to keep historical monuments. But you know, the city of Lviv is like, 750 years old, it should be marked next year. But you know that 750 years will no longer be marked, because the Ministry of Finance's spending has blocked the celebration of this date, even though it has made a decision that is appropriate, which was sponsored by me and the Supreme Council. Of course, perhaps it would be easier at all to compare the city of Lviv to the ground, to invite Polachenko there. He'll build colossal houses there, we'll sell it, we'll give the money, we'll give the stakes, the employees of the Ministry of Culture, the representatives of the Cabinet, well, Lviv, one Lviv will become more, less, what difference does it make? We have so many cities in Ukraine, 750 years old. I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u32	Thank you. You can really agree with that position, since Lviv needs much more than the amount of money that came from the subsidy this year. No doubt. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u33	Yes, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u34	And a written question. Head of the National Party Dept. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Jeremeyev What measures is being taken by the government to prevent the destruction and looting of historical and cultural monuments and unsanctioned excavations of the so-called “Scif graves” that are in the amount of damage that has been caused, since according to unofficial data, unsanctioned excavations in private collections are estimated at over 5,000, 5,000. I would like to remind you that, according to article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, all the monuments of archaeology are those that are under water, including the associated moving monuments, which are state property. That's what academic Toločko was talking about. In fact, it is a unique feature of archaeological monuments. Wherever you find them in a private garden, as it were, in your bet or anywhere, they must be transferred to the state treasury. In fact, Scythian graves have not only been destroyed recently. They've been destroying themselves for the last 2,000 years, maybe even more. Many were harmed when the land was taken from private property when it was practically nightly. Then she came again into the hands of people who were not responsible for the preservation of the monuments. The Ministry of Culture will primarily contribute to the creation of inspections in places of preservation of an archaeological heritage, about the creation of an archaeological museum in Ukraine that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u35	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u36	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina Dear Igor Dmitrovich! We have so many cultural monuments abroad. I was able to find in Argentina a unique Ukrainian-built iconost, decorated with our national colors in the Orthodox Church. In Argentina, I say, it's been 100 years, and in Mirgorod, this iconostasis has been robbed and some kind of facility has been used for decoration. But he was just there, recently, our president. That's the question I'm asking. We're in Italy, I'm told there's a third iconostasis of our Mirrodsky. Help us through the embassy, the consulate, find it there, and what's more, you and the minister of culture and tourism, it's not hard to organize a trip there and find it, and make a register of three unique masterpieces of Ukrainian art, which is why we're here. I'd like to ask you for some help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u37	Okay. Thank you. I think we're going to do everything together with colleague Tarasyuk to bring cultural values back to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u38	Yes, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u39	The Council of Europe is implementing a project for the development of creative industries. In Ukraine, the initiative groups for this project are taking place. Is the Cabinet of Ministers planning an organisational, financial support for this project with the aim of creating a competitive Ukrainian cultural product, the national deputy Oluiko. Cooperation with the Council of Europe is one of the international priorities of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. By the way, tomorrow the Secretary - General of the Council of Europe, Terry Davis, also accepts the Ukrainian delegation in this regard. The development of creative industries today is not one of the priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers, we can say that. But once again, I like a very constructive approach to solving the problems of non-traditional monuments, when the Ministry of Culture constantly comes up with proposals to involve some of the schemes that have already been developed in the world. One of them, which is proposed here, I think, will be considered by the experts of the State Cultural Heritage Service, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, so that we can find a mechanism to join the modern trends of preservation of cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Dmitrovich. Time's up, please sit down. Giulinsky Mikola Grigorovich is invited to the report, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Dear colleagues! Today I would like to mention again the words of our beautiful poet Alexander Olesia: “There was a great deal of joy in the matter.” And the joy here is one thing, that we're listening to today's issue of preservation of cultural heritage, and everything else is a great concern. Because the preservation of the cultural heritage in Ukraine is critical. We are on the verge of just a cultural disaster, for imagine that out of the 130,000 monuments in Ukraine, each friend today requires restoration and repair. And this situation is so difficult that we're not even happy with what we have there, for example, in the list of the worldwide heritage complex of the Council of Sofia and Kiev-Pecher Lavra, and the historic center of Kiev. But imagine, this is essentially a few of the 59 national state reserves, 13 of them have national status. So imagine, even the House of Mitrovica in the Sofia Kyivska Reserve, which we spent nearly a million and a half in 2002-2004 on repairs, in accounting is worth 300 dollars. And the same Sofia bell has an accounting price of only 400 dollars, even though nearly 280,000 dollars have been spent on repairing it. What does this talk about? This suggests that our monuments today are not appreciated in the monetary equivalent. They have no real price today, which is 55 percent of the monuments. This is a very serious problem, and we might not be able to continue today at all, but simply read what the Central Audit Authority of Ukraine did, which conducted an audit of the effectiveness of using the State and Local Budgets to preserve the cultural heritage in 2002-2004. It's an extremely objective and very comprehensive painting that we're now building with the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage. To date, the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage has been in force for five years, and the Cabinet of Ministers has never ensured the creation of a single central executive body in the area of protection of cultural heritage. And this problem is extremely serious. They'll tell me, listen, there's the State Department for Cultural Heritage Protection. But in this State Department of Cultural Heritage, there are only 23 people. How they can provide security for 130,000. objects? And by the way, although this law provides for the creation of appropriate services in the regions, only in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zakarpatsk, Odessa, and Kiev have created these services. At that time, organizations of accounting, such scientific and rescue archaeological services, centres of cultural heritage protection that essentially replace cultural heritage authorities, using Ukrainian laws on the protection of cultural heritage, on the protection of archaeological heritage and other legal instruments. And this is done on the basis of its own resources, it pays for the approval of programs, construction projects, architectural and landscape transformations, construction, meliority, roads, land works on cultural heritage monuments, their territories, security zones, protected archaeological sites, and in the historical habitats of the populace. Thus, the promotion of state scientific institutions and local authorities has resulted in the relaxation of their own protection of cultural heritage in the regions and the transfer of it to the category of legitimate earnings. The Government of Ukraine should immediately take steps to stop such organizations and ensure that full-fledged local cultural heritage authorities are established, giving them all the functions of consent provided for by law. The absence of a whole system of protection of cultural heritage even calls into question the possibility of implementing the provisions of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, since there is no practical subject to the application of preservation mechanisms. In particular, security contracts are not made, financial sanctions are not properly identified and accounted for by cultural objects, regulations and regulations regarding memory protection, and so on. By the way, no executive body in Ukraine has full information on the activities of all reserves, their financial and economic activities, and their preservation. All of this can lead to the loss of both memory and historical value. We've already talked about unsanctioned archaeological explorations and excavations. We also need to do our best here in a consolidated way. This should be done by the government to coordinate the activities of the power ministries and protection agencies with cultural heritage authorities regarding the cessation of “black” archaeology, illegal trade and the export of archaeological objects. The legal and regulatory protection of cultural heritage is very slow. Until now, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has failed to ensure the development of a whole range of legal regulations. This is all provided for by the Cultural Heritage Protection Act and the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the Universal Programme for the Conservation and Use of Cultural Heritage Objects for 2004-2010. Until now. The Cabinet of Ministers has not approved the procedure for the granting of permits and the arrangements for the formation of a qualified council that authorizes archaeological investigations, excavations, and other groundwork. So the most important thing is that the management function is in an extremely critical state, and this passport that we're talking about today is being carried out at such a pace that if it continues to continue, I'm going to be financed that way, unfortunately, we're not. Cause Only 50 years from now will we be able to passport cultural monuments. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time. Oh, there is. I'm sorry. Oh, I've got ten. That's what this is all about. So there's something to say, and I'll say it. The absence of historical and cultural preserves of the legalized right of permanent use of their territories creates prerequisites for the loss of cultural heritage. Ukraine’s current legislation on the drafting and issuing of State acts on the right to use the land on a permanent basis, including national reserves, has been placed on local councils. Of course, this creates a conflict of interest: the state in the person of the reserves and municipal councils. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine doesn't pay any attention to this. They ignore their authority, the decisions of the Supreme Council on many occasions. Moreover, you will excuse yourself, and I am convinced that each of the national MPs is meeting with their own, as they say, territories, as the land reserves are being removed by local self-government authorities. This is also happening in Johno-Frankivsky -- remember ancient Galic -- this is happening in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I could give a lot of examples, but unfortunately there is no response from the authorities. And this is an extremely disturbing situation because it creates relapses that reinforce the possibility of privatizing an object under the protection of a State to build an object there. And this all leads to the fact that the authorities, in fact, have no levers or use the right levers to keep the reserves in the right mode. Well, the brightest example is the National Hortica Reserve. All of this epoch, with it coming to the earth, has already come to pass. Everyone remembers how the Zaporezian City Council did nothing but work, it seems, from 1986-1987, not to give, not to issue an act on land in the National Hortica Reserve, but only on 9 November this year a project was approved by the Land Administration, about the removal of land to the National Hortician Reserve and the boundaries established. True, and neither are those foretold. But that's a different question. This is only because a memorandum has been signed on the joint actions of public authorities, local self-government bodies, entrepreneurs, scientific, project and other institutions and organizations, the public, aimed at ensuring the conservation and further development of the National Hortica Reserve. But, at the same time, it is certainly a good initiative, and here we have to give due respect to our President, who has initiated and tried to do everything he can to make some movement go forward so that the National Reserve will finally develop. However, this permit for further construction of the bridge at the Ukrainian Shrine of Horticia raises many more objections and signals. And, even while we are listening, we are already being handed out again and again by this Zaporozhye City Association “Protecting the Hortica!” it says that this construction is not to be carried out by these bridges. I think it's a problem to look at, to study, because the government car is running, the project work is being paid, the construction work started, and it's cost, and it's lost time. But it may still be important to remember that the environmental security of the city and its activities, and the environment in general, should be our main concern. Now the question is to finance cultural heritage conservation. For example, the protection of cultural heritage by the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine was declared a priority for 2006. At the same time, the 2006 budget for capremonts, reconstructions, restorations and other development costs for the State Cultural Heritage Service of the Ministry of Culture provides only 11 million dollars. It's almost half this year. So the question is, is this happening or ignoring our own decisions, is this some of the features of our Ukrainian state policy? It's absolutely necessary to review this, it's just impossible because we lose, every day, we lose values that we should also be the object of our tourist interest in the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage at all, because it's a national and world acquisition. A critical situation in human resources training, although the Ministry of Culture has a number of higher education institutions. Who are the only ones we can understand, and at the expense of government funds, are we preparing? After all, only 77 museum experts and the preservation of history and culture have been trained by Minculture’s higher educational institutions for the past three years. Including the Kharkiv Academy of Culture and Arts, 43 specialists, the Kyiv National University of Culture, 34 specialists. There is no way to train professionals in architectural restoration. For a single conversation, honourable colleagues, the problem deserves to be restored. This is an extremely difficult situation, and I will not call it the state of our most important objects. But I would like to say a few words about the Corporation "The Crustration". She was preparing the footage of the monumentalist artists on the restoration sites. Restoration is practice. Thank God, the Academy of Arts is still preparing up to 10 people today. But it's just restoration artists. There is no formal preparation for middle-level professionals in schools, such as artificials, painters, architect-restaurants, restaurateur engineers, technology-restaurants. They are not tested according to world standards. There's no funding for scientific research. Although the Institute of “Science and Research” has been granted scientific status. Security personnel are also not specially trained, they are not tested, they do not contribute to a qualified solution to today's issues, and they do not contribute to the strategic development of the security storage system. There is no financing for the material base of the restorative organizations. Its equipment remained at the level of the 1980s last century. Despite significant technological advances, this is the 21st century. It is necessary to increase the requirements for the granting of licences for restoration work and the selection of subcontractors. The question of preserving the restoration of church - rented monuments remains unregulated. There are examples of the transfer of architecture to church property, which today is not ready to carry out protection, preservation, restoration of memory at the scientific level according to the requirements of time. Thus, respectable colleagues, the preservation of a national cultural heritage, including the restoration of architecture’s monuments, are extremely pressing problems, and it needs immediate State intervention. That is why we need to look first and foremost at the formation of state and local budgets for preservation, restoration of the historical and cultural heritage, and to remember that without such a national approach to this problem, we will face this problem constantly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u42	Yes, thank you, too, Mikola Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, we have a decree stipulating that the main report is made by the government, and we've already moved on to co-reports. It takes more people to speak. The committee report may be no more than five minutes. Let's move on to the discussion. Yes. We've got half an hour. We'll leave the factions first, and then, if time is left, we'll leave the national MPs. No objections? Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready for "Our Ukraine." Is there a Andrew School? Come on, please. None. Let's take it. Let's move on. Orestes Dmitrovich Klimpus and prepare for Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u43	Mr. head, honourable colleagues, members of the government, present, preserving the cultural heritage of the “One Ukraine” party, recognizes as one of the main pillars of public policy, because our historical acquisitions are the basis for raising a young generation in the spirit of patriotism, pride for its country and nation. Like other nations, we need to know our history perfectly, respect our ancestors and culture, know our history, gain the Ukrainian people, recognize our place in world society. Without this, we cannot have further social development because everyone knows that without the past, there is no future. Today, however, we have to note that the preservation of historical monuments is not concerned enough and is largely a matter of words, since there are numerous facts that show not only negligence but criminal treatment of our cultural national acquisitions. Consider the destruction of Kiev's historic monuments, the construction near the walls of St. Sofia, the destruction of the archaeological heritage in Montenegro, the excavation of “black archaeologists in Crimea”. Otherwise, the condition of the numerous Ukrainian fortresses and castles cannot be described as pitiful. This year alone, work began on the restoration of the Hehtman capitals. We must recognize that the low level of cultural financing is the main cause of the decline that is taking place today in the cultural sphere of the country as a whole and in the preservation of cultural monuments in particular. I would like to remind myself that the basis of cultural legislation is to assign culture to up to eight percent of Ukraine's national income. But this standard has never been fulfilled. Also in the 2006 budget, all expenditure on spiritual and physical development is planned at 0.3% of GDP. Therefore, members of the “One Ukraine” faction introduced laws on the area of protection of cultural heritage, the Shevchenk National Reserve, and the Hehtman capital. The adoption of these documents will allow additional costs to be involved in the reproduction and protection of cultural monuments and in the development of tourism infrastructure in Cane, Baturin, Chigirina, and Deaf. At the same time, the problem of the preservation of cultural heritage is closely linked to the issue of the return of Ukrainian cultural and historical values from abroad, because after the numbers that have gone through our country since the empire, the vast number of things that are the cultural acquisitions of the Ukrainian people are beyond our borders. That is why we believe that it is necessary to create a register of cultural values that are outside Ukraine and have prepared an appropriate law to return these values. We offer to uphold this law, and we hope that efforts will be made together, including from this day forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u44	Yes. Thank you, Orestes Dmitrovich. Yes, Vladimir Bondarenko. None. Let's take it. Sergey Zizko, please. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, of the position of the Rules, if there is no one who is speaking at this time, the speech cannot continue. Please, Sergey Zizko and prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u45	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! The cultural heritage is a material expression of the spiritual and intellectual acquisitions of hundreds of generations of our immediate and distant ancestors. Its preservation includes respect for the ancients, concern for the historical memory of our offspring, and the face of our culture. Sadly, the preservation of a cultural heritage is a matter of concern. Indeed, in recent years the resources allocated to the State’s budget for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage are steadily increasing. But first, the left-hand part of these costs is essentially spent on maintaining historical and cultural reserves. There are only a few thousand cultural heritage monuments in the territory of all the reserves, with a total of more than a thousand. That is, the vast mass of historical cultural heritage objects is not even in the public eye, and is free to be destroyed or influenced by time, or by the technological activities of humans. It's different. A notable part of the budget allocated to the protection of cultural heritage is spent on the work of the reserve staff, on the protection and organization of their territory, and so on, not directly by appointment. If these costs were written in a single line, we would see that the actual amounts to protect cultural heritage are significantly smaller. In recent times, the President of the State has launched a series of large-scale restorations, including the restoration of Baturin, the implementation of projects in Kiev, Kamyanec Podilski, the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the centre of Lviv, Hortica, and others. But it would be desirable for local authorities to pay more attention to cultural monuments by involving the cost of the donor to restore them. An example here is the small town of Rzischev under Kiev, where the mecenati have created a beautiful museum of tropical culture. The greatest concern is the preservation of the archaeological monuments that are outside the reserves and are the most destructive because of their age. Gradually, the city of Tripoli, the ancient Kurgans, somewhere-where they dig up the earth, black archaeologists, and Ukraine gradually loses its precious treasures of old. I would like to suggest that on local councils where archaeological sites are located, there is an obligation to control at least the status of their preservation. And another offer. Invite the district councils to identify at least an object that requires immediate restoration work and to mobilize funds for its recovery each year. The preservation of ancient monuments requires a concerted effort. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u46	Jaroslav Suhi from the faction of “Ukraine”. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! The high relevance of the issue that we are considering today is undeniable. The cultural heritage of Ukraine is well envied by neighbors, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the world is amazed to see, however, how mindlessly we are to react to the absence of a legal field of cultural heritage protection, as we have been coping with the lack of adequate funding at least at some fixed level or at least at the level of the world, or at least at least at European level. Finally, these shortcomings can be corrected, and we, the Party of the Regions, will be able to correct them, for the preservation and use of cultural heritage objects must include, first of all, the financial strengthening of local budgets, the introduction of a single tariff network for the work of people who are working hard today, receiving copies in our cold museums and neglected reserves. Has anything changed for the better with the coming to power of the orange masters? Neither the government report nor the co-report nor the cries of some national MPs have clearly changed – nothing has changed for the better. Today, we need to talk about another problem that the public is not ready for. I mean interference, primitive interference in the protection of cultural heritage of political elements. This has been the case since the time when we in Ukraine had mass destruction of the 19th - 20th - century monuments that were really related to epochal events. Those who were then in power, thoughtless and free of charge, were surely destroyed — the monuments of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, the civil war, and the Western Ukraine and the Great Homeland War. So instead of public support as a result of such a service, Taras Shevchenka’s National Museum received a real and dangerous crisis today, I emphasize, precisely as a result of the intervention of politicians. On the other hand, in the Chernobyl area, the authorities promise to create an ethnographic museum soon, and it is likely that funds will be allocated under this museum. On the other hand, there are plans to organize a tomb of nuclear waste from all over Europe. In order to ensure the preservation and further development of the Hortic National Reserve, a coordinating committee was set up for the national action “Let's Save Hortica!” and this action that started and ends with one – no bridge, and here, in this room, I have heard this thesis that bridges through Horticia, through Dnipro, are some kind of urban achievement. Nothing like that! Bridges are strategically important for national security, Ukraine's environmental security. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can say today that the new authority, apart from the declarations, has done nothing to preserve the cultural heritage. She is therefore destined to resign in the 2006 elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u48	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the problem of preserving cultural heritage is multidimensional, multistage, and increasingly disturbing. In particular, it interferes with the museum’s work. This is the fact that Ukrainian museums are lagging behind in many countries, including neighboring Russia. Its main problem is illustrativeness, monographism, the drive for stereotypes that occurred in totalitarian times, the lack of finding scientific concepts. And if someone is trying to get out of this vicious circle of captivity, get to the breakthroughs and open up, the conservative museum community itself throws out of its ranks such bold men. An example. The release of prominent scientist Sergey Galchenk from office of Director General of the Taras Shevchenk National Museum, in which, by the way, President Viktor Yushchenko played a major role in a serious scientific discussion. As a result, the museum did not act, but people far from science came to its leadership as a scientific institution, from the modern reading of Shevchenk. There has been a serious decline in the intellectual potential of the museum, and its collectives are eating up the knots, the tone of the museum’s new leadership. There is a serious threat of the disappearance of the National Museum of Shevchenk as such, the dispersion of its funds, which cannot be allowed. Both museums and many other museums have faced such a threat. In particular, in connection with the creation of the so-called Art Arsenal. It would seem an interesting idea, a grand project, but what happens to the Shevchenka Museum if its painting moves into a “mystical arsenal”? What, then, about the integrity of Taras’ genius? The “artificial arsenal” should not be created by the impoverishment of other museums. We need to find the harmony between the old museums and the new project. It is not possible to declare the creation of an “artificial arsenal” a strategic initiative and not have a strategy for the preservation of all museum wealth. In this context, we believe that the government should develop a State programme to preserve museum collections formed by generations of enthusiastic scientists over the past centuries and decades. This is all the more important, for some reasons, that today’s “black ” collection is being scaled up. In doing so, it is necessary to prohibit the removal of exhibits from the stock collections of one museum and to transfer them to another. Ukrainian museum collections are extremely rich, but they cannot be destroyed; they need to be preserved and expanded. The already mentioned and created art arsenal cannot and should not become a museum of museums, but rather take up its special niche in the museum of Ukraine thanks to the new scientific concept of creating a regional stock collection. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism is supposed to be the engine here. But unfortunately, the hopes for this are still weak, because what happened to the Shevchenka Museum is that such intellectual breakthroughs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u50	Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction. Prepare Michael Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u51	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Today someone sheds crocodile tears about our cultural heritage. I'll say that barbarians never thought about culture, about their cultural heritage. And whoever comes to power today, they don't think about the future of our people. I would like to emphasize today in particular. Maybe I wouldn't speak from this rostrum. Last week, I went to Lviv and Volyn areas. And we're talking about big stuff today. I understand that it takes a lot of money and a lot of time to restore the church of the Bosich Carmelitov or the church where Onoré de Balzak married. But what must be done not to destroy the brotherly graves of the tens of thousands of Soviets who have given their lives for their freedom? The hair stands when you see a brother's grave being torn apart, when the tomb was broken, when the plates were broken, where the names of these people were written. Today, we cannot determine who is in this grave. What culture are the representatives of Western areas, what spirituality can you talk about today from this rostrum?Oh, my God! I address the Ukrainian people and our veterans: let's raise the voice of protest – that's where the culture is manifesting the spirituality of today's generation of individual areas! I want to talk about culture and spirituality today. The Minister did not say today how many rural and urban clubs there were in Ukraine in 1991, with more than 25,000. How many of them are operating in Ukraine's villages today? They're all boarded up, the windows are jammed, you're not going to get there-- the lights are net, the heat's net, the libraries aren't working. What great culture and spirituality can we talk about? Yeah, we gotta look for money, but we gotta start with the kid. We have to start with the kid, the club right in the village, the club in the workplace, the brother's grave, the tombs of Soviet and party leaders who died by the Banderian hand lying there in the grave. Today, they are not only mocking those who have survived or remained faithful to their ideals. They today mock the dead, who cannot resist them, in brotherly graves. That is why I am addressing you today, the people's deputies, and I consider my request to the Attorney-General, to the local authorities to take steps to restore all the monuments, whether it be one soldier or a brother's grave. For shame will be to this power and to our President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u52	Mikhail Bauer, please give your speech. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, today national culture is not experiencing the best times, it is at such a delicate estimate. All their directions require immediate and constructive intervention by the State. But especially a watchful attitude requires the rich cultural heritage of our people. It has been formed for centuries and must be kept at any cost for future generations. Regrettably, the real state of affairs is far from the desired, urgent, counter - accident, and conservative work that requires more than 200 monuments of national significance. Among them is the residence of Metropolitans at the University of Chernobyl, which needs 5 million dollars to be restored immediately. A particular concern is the state of historical and architectural heritage in rural areas, including historic rural settlements, which are more than 300 villages. The overall poverty of the village, the financial hardship, the known divisiveness, the system of subcontracting, and the absence of a single body of memory management have not contributed to a comprehensive approach to the design and construction of historic rural settlements, and may result in a unique loss of a national historical and cultural heritage. So it is time for urgent action by the relevant government agencies. The main ones are the exploration of historical villages and the development on this basis of the master plans for their construction. These and other problems require substantial investment, which will be the main cause of the shortcomings. But let us ask ourselves: Is everything possible for everyone in their workplace? As an educator, it is extremely important to me how we use the historical and cultural heritage of our people in the educational process. I must say that this powerful educational potential has not found its proper place in the nation's educational strategy. Children have little knowledge of the historical monuments of their region, the region, or even the village. We did not form a need for our students to know and protect our historical past. And that's a particular concern. And our Ministry of Culture and Tourism is in a very unclear position. It can be described as what we're going to get, what we're going to get. There must be a greater need to demand a solution to painful problems, to seek alternative sources of funding, to make proposals for improving existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u54	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please. Get ready for Sith.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u55	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian National Party assesses the situation in the area of preservation of cultural heritage as a crisis. This is evidenced by the unique cases of the theft of archival documents, the unbridled expansion of “black archaeology”, the eviction of museums from their historic buildings, as was the case with the Museum of Kiev, the planned purpose-oriented destruction of Horticia and the Garden festivities, the original landscape party “Granite Steps of Pobzja” in the Mikolaiiv region, through the implementation of the project of the construction of the Taslic Hydroaccumulation Station of Morally Obsolescence and Harmful. And it's very good that the minister didn't adorn this situation, as usually government members do. There is hope that the preservation of historical monuments will move away from the dead. Members of the Ukrainian People’s Party are most active in the implementation of projects to preserve the cultural heritage. They lead a number of social organizations that care about preserving the cultural heritage of the Ukrainian people. Members of the Ukrainian People’s Party supported the President’s initiative to rebuild the memory of the former Hethman capital of Baturin. For these purposes, more than 1.1 billion dollars were collected and counted. On December 10-11, Kiev hosted a scientific conference entitled “Tripilla – Civilisation Measurement”, which adopted a number of important recommendations. In particular, it created an orgcommittee to form the Association of Archaeologists of Ukraine as an integral part of the European community. Unfortunately, the responsibility for the present amount of the situation in the area of preservation of the historic acquisitions of Ukrainians should also be shared by the National Academy of Sciences. Science officials, who essentially destroyed the archaeological field, brought it to its full destruction. Some scientists have been prevented from participating in scientific conferences, while others are usually isolated from scientific discourse. The Ukrainian People's Party proposes to take urgent and active measures to activate the historical and cultural memory registration project. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Research Institute of Monuments and Security Research, if the registering is very bad. The Ukrainian People's Party also proposes to implement the recommendation of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Ecology, which says that the Gard Festival as the core of the park’s “Granite Steps of Pobužja” is referred to as objects of the cultural heritage of Ukraine. We also propose to create a National Archaeological Museum within the framework of the project “The Art Terminal” as a base, as a foundation that will allow Ukrainians and tourists to gain the full history of the Ukrainian people from the earliest times to the present. Therefore, honourable national MPs, the Ukrainian People's Party urges you to improve the financing of this activity and direct your efforts to preserve and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u56	Yes, Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Anishtuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u57	Mikhail Sithina, Carpathia, faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukraine today is deeply concerned about the state of national culture, the extent to which spiritual and material destruction has occurred as a result of underfunding and neglecting these needs. Anxiety is understandable. The identity of the world’s oldest cultures is a kind of fold, concentration of thousands of years of work, intelligence, and, ultimately, the soul of the entire nation, continues to marvel at the world’s diversity and perfection of forms. The high representation of UNESCO in the course of this year’s visit to Ukraine was also impressed by the monuments of the Tripoli culture, the Museums of Kiev, and Preyaslav. The International Organization for the Protection of Monuments of the World Cultural Heritage is now registered with Sofia Kyivsky, Kyewovo - Pecherska Lavra, and the historical center of Lviv. The candidates for this list are the Bahchisarai Khan Palace, Askania Nova and Hersones Tavrish, the historic centre of Chernigova, Montenegro, the Canoe, the Ummana Park “Sofiyivka” and the Slovakian landscape “Bukov pralis” Karpat. Ladies and gentlemen, I have deliberately named this long line to remind each of us of the terrible situation in which these objects have now become unacceptable, and of the fact that it is not only the high prestige of the State but its specific obligations for future generations. Dear colleagues, we must now make a priority: how to teach the whole nation to be proud of this truth with an invaluable treasure. We can't learn, we're going to be next in the numbers of disappeared Incas, Maya and other cultures. And who will then be interested in the justification for the lack of funds when, for example, they stop carrying and donating their powerful energy to Ukrainian wooden temples decorated with unique wall paintings? Just as important is the order of the matter as a whole. This means that it is time to extract the vertical at the head of the only public fund manager, the renewed State Committee for the Protection of Cultural History. On time and on the question of the legal status of identified cultural objects, since there are currently no unified methods in the country. We need to determine with much equal budget funding from the Restoration and Reconstruction State. Finally, the immediate introduction of the credit card is linked to the exemption from the taxes of the subjects on the amount contributed to the reproduction or restoration of historical and cultural monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u58	Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Please. And the time that's left is going to be at school. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u59	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] On the one hand, it is very good that we are listening today to the issue of the preservation of cultural heritage, and on the other hand, one word should give an assessment of what is going on, the prospects of the matter. It's good to have a minister here today to whom you can probably appeal. Dear Igor Dmitrovich, when we speak in general, the painting is not bad. But there are questions about how people who work directly with the protection of their cultural heritage are now able to do their job professionally. According to their profession, yes, but according to the size of their wages, they will not be able to do so, because that level of wage paid by cultural workers today has probably reached a critical limit. And if you look at the fact that your very fighting soldier is working today in areas that work in villages that bring culture to people. Today, it works at 0.25, or even in half, those 70 bracelets are not enough to worry about protecting the cultural heritage. I have here the response of the Lviv District State Administration. Tell me, please, that Lviv is under UNESCO patronage and recognized by the whole world, it's an undisputed fact, but there's another undeniable fact that financing expenditure on culture and art is 51 percent of the sector's needs. So it seems to me that you have to focus here on the fact that the sector is now financed by 50 percent. If we continue to speak, we will see an even more paradoxical situation. There is no approved budget, and the answer is that nothing will change in 2006, because your ministry wrote about it. I'd like to make one more point. In the second year, Ukraine will celebrate 150 years after the birth of John Frank. Please tell us, are there many nations on earth that have the same greatness as John Franco? So I have to tell you today that the Lviv Literature Museum of John Frank is not needed by anyone but the people who work at this museum. He is in such a neglected state that in a year you will all be ashamed. And given that the President cares only about Baturinim and drives the money of businessmen like Taraszuk, who put a million there, it's not clear whether he's making a charity contribution or whether he's paid for his job. In this regard, then, we are not far off from our inheritance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Andrew School, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Although, of course, the pipe would be three dates, but I'll be in in a minute. I would like to point out that there was a figure of 11 million here to preserve the monuments of architecture and history. So I want to say from the city of Lviv, where the decision of the Supreme Council to mark the 750th anniversary of the creation of the city was 114 million, only 13, and not a penny more. Of the 11 million The city of Lviv will not do as much as it did for the 750th year of Lviv. I mean, not a penny. I was not surprised, of course, by the fact that before Lviv was always a opposing city, there was an authority that never valued national shrines and national cultural heritage. But now why does this happen? Why are architecture monuments, 25 percent of which are in Ukraine, and 50 percent of which are generally historical Ukrainian acquisitions that are in the city of Lviv, virtually nothing is being done now? Unfortunately, I did not hear the answer from the minister of culture or from the minister of finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Question completed. Boris Ilchi insisted, one minute asked. Is there a Boris Ilchi? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u63	Thank you. I would like to say that all the economic wonders that have happened in recent decades in the world have happened in countries where social progress has been ensured by the priority development of national culture, this thing in spirituality is an axiom. Usually, in the footnote, everything is allowed, the second part is crossed out, and it's already treated as simple as permissiveness. This permissiveness has led us to believe that, according to Mikola Grigorovich, we have a disastrous situation with the preservation of monuments. That's why I think we should start with Kiev and at least protect ourselves from sexual assault.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u64	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u65	That's a good word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u66	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u67	Yes, from the slaughter of the oligarchs at the sanctuary. It is worth announcing the conservation mountains of Kya, Szczecavic, Kisilivka, Horivica, Kojumjaki, Pottery and Dihttari, by hanging out of this area garages and various natural landmarks or additions and by banning any arbitrary construction, especially the palaces of the oligarchs of primitive taste and stench. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u68	Yes, Peter Toloczko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u69	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I listened very carefully to the report of the Minister of Culture, and frankly, Igor Dmitrovitch, I'm a little disappointed. On the question “What is the situation with memory protection?” you answer that you have not received any complaints from the prosecutor’s office. Or the D.A.'s office. On the question of robbing the Kurgans and the archaeological monuments, you say that it was a thousand years ago, too. If we take this approach to protect our archaeological heritage, we will not save anything. The Ministry of Culture should be the organ that rings the alarm bells. And it's not like that, and it's not like that. And the robbery of a thousand years is not equal to today's robbery, today's robbery with bulldozers and an exvaton. And you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u70	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u71	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I just can't ignore and not respond to one of my colleagues' performances. I'd like to bring some clarity to anyone without idealizing or mortifying the authorities there or the President. I'd say it's still very normal that Yushchenko is doing what we're going to do now is restore Baturin, which has literally been there for two or three centuries forever, and it's been falling ever more and more. Because of this, I would like people to know that not everyone feels the same way about it, and that's where he's driving the money from the businessmen. Let him run, at least, anything left after us and stay after the President. That's why it's done very correctly, and let ours and the oligarchs give more money for it -- we'll rebuild our monuments more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u72	Mikhail Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u73	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of the Reform and Order Party. Ladies and gentlemen, on March 3rd this year, I addressed your ministry with a parliamentary request to assign the status of "national" to the Lviv National Museum, which was created a hundred years ago as the scientific and artistic foundation of the Metropolitan Andrey Sheptick. On Sunday yesterday, you brought the President's decree to assign this museum official state status "national" for which I would like to thank you very much from this rostrum. However, Igor Dmitrovich, the following year, as has already been said, is 150 years old from the date of John Frank’s birth. I remember a century after the birth of this Titan of thought and work. It was then celebrated -- 50 years ago -- at UNESCO level. Is it possible to develop such a program now?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u74	Basil Nadrag. And it was as if everyone was satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u75	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to disagree with you in general. If we do not agree on what we are today or even plan to do tomorrow, we will protect the archaeological monuments. Let me give you an example. As a member of the monitoring board of the National Historical Archaeological Reserve, Olivia, I can say the following. Unfortunately, every year we have less and less money, not for reconstruction, but even for maintenance in the right form and for the preservation of these facilities. You'll see, it's a protected area of Berezan. Only last year did 7,000 square meters of historical space be destroyed, that is, where are we going further? We are at such a pace, and provided that we reduce it in two years' time, we come to the fact that there is nothing left, not just antiquity, but history will not remain in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, the discussion has been concluded. We had to make a decision. Unfortunately, I have to say that I have not prepared a draft decision. I'd like the committee to pay attention to that, especially the question. What, what? Yeah, and that's me pointing out that there's no draft decision. Because the question is extremely painful, the question of perspective, the question of Ukraine's future and, unfortunately, the observation that has been made today, to my conviction, and I think that you're sharing this point of view, I'm convinced that it doesn't correspond to the real state of things that we're in. Moreover, there are vast numbers of objects that need to be protected and preserved for their offspring. We're a huge waste because of our disrespect for what we have, and other countries where there's no history, they're gathering it in little pieces. I would like to prepare within a week an appropriate decision, which is an appropriate situation. Dear colleagues, before we announce a break of 30 minutes, we have two factions, two by two factions, the factions have called for a recess for consultations. Can we do this if we speak now, for what reason do you want the brothers to take a break so that we can start immediately with the question? No warning? Then I'm going to make one more announcement before that, as long as Solomonine goes, he's from two factions of the U.S.P.D.U. (o) and the UK Company. According to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies and Article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich from the MP's “Industrious, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” party. I'd like to ask the leadership of the faction, the faction's asset, to point out that you have 13 people's deputies left, two weeks to solve this problem. Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepare for two factions of the People's Party and the People's Block. Who will act? Nightmare? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Indeed, Ukraine’s cultural heritage must be protected, especially in Kiev, Ukraine’s capital city. Here's another powerful example where the authorities don't react, but they do everything they can to destroy this cultural heritage. At the request of the people of the micro-region of the children's railway, 2b Shamryl Street, where some company called the "Castan town" is behind it, according to previous reports, as if the national deputy of Lebedivsky of the pervasive faction "Our Ukraine". It was this firm that started destroying the designated children's facility to build another business major. At the request of the electorate, our fellow Ukrainian deputies, Bondarczuk, Anisimov, Nosenko, went there with you. Bondarczuk is now with his finger broken, and Nosenko is already in the pit. Anisimo, I'm sorry, and Nosenko continues to defend, protect people's interests, along with our friends, who have risen up and again defended the interests of the electorate. There's a real fight going on. The builder is the leader of the Alpha security company's anti-terrorist veterans association. What is this “anti-terror”, which is this gang-forming, which has raised its hands and sticks against the national deputies of Ukraine and against the inhabitants of this micro-region? Where are the Lucenko eagles to protect the people's deputies, where's the Attorney General's Office? Our two factions demand, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhajlovich, an immediate response: on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to contact Lucenk, to contact Medvedzk with immediate deployment, we demand, immediately, to the scene of the events, appropriate groups to find out the circumstances, and call for the responsibility before the law of this gang-forming group called “Alpha” and “Antiteror”. Thank you. People of Ukraine, look at how modern - day authority violates the law, violates the Constitution, and goes against the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u78	Mikola. I've already announced it, then you'll say it. I would ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Mikola Nightshenko from two factions. Please, and then Lebedivsky, will be entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The MPs of the People’s Party and groups of the People’s bloc of Lithuania are concerned about the situation surrounding the protracted negotiation process with Russia on natural gas prices for Ukraine. For this reason, numerous publications and comments by the media are spreading, possibly increasing the prices of natural gas for the population. From a possible energy crisis today to a peaceful light, cloudless tomorrow. And today's article in the newspaper “Today”, such an article entitled “Cut the world and the gas wrangle” on this subject as well. First of all, the government, administrations don't publicly inform citizens about the situation in the gas market, and thus virtually the uncertainty, the anxiety of tomorrow is passed on to every home, every home. It is completely silent that in October of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the initiative of the peoples, passed a decree not to increase the holiday prices in 2006 for gas for the population and for utilities. Today, most non-professionals are going to Moscow to negotiate, and ambitious experts who do not know Russian in a direct and figurative sense are taking the very negotiating process at the price of gas for 2006 with very narrow questions that they believe can be solved through economic blackmail and threats at the state level. From public statements by public people – Kinaha, Yvchenka, Plačkova – we can conclude that there is no clear long-term strategy for providing Ukraine with energy resources. And you could say that these are the politicians that Russia doesn't hear. Protecting citizens from possible disruptions with the supply of gas during the winter season is a matter of honor for the government. For the sake of their citizens, the government has to prove the ability to make arrangements and compromises. That's why we're proposing. First. The government for the next parliament will immediately declare the price of Ukrainian gas constant for the population, at least in 2006. Secondly, the President of Ukraine is to identify influential politicians and experts to negotiate with Russia with appropriate powers. We don't need a winner today in the gas war of two states, that's the way and nowhere. The President's environment and the Prime Minister's environment should reject the categorical and political ambitions aimed at eliminating the so-called “closed zones” in the economy of the State, the existence of economic monsters such as NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, the parliamentary groups are proposing to the Supreme Council the establishment of a parliamentary commission to study the financial and economic activities of NAC, the presence of intermediaries in the gas market, the efficiency of the use of state property and Ukrainian gas, the fact that Ukrainian gas is being sold abroad, the use of credits, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u80	Yes, Valery Lebedowski, please. Turn on the microphone. One minute to the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to correct the information that has just been sounded in the Chamber by Deputy Solomon, that it does not match the reality and I would like to draw his attention in general to the fact that he is still using only the information that is real, verified, reliable. Otherwise, as a lie, I can't possibly appreciate what came out of the rostrum today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u82	Yes. Dear colleagues, we have the next question. Well, Your Honor, I'm asking you, the National MP has put out the information he deems necessary. Everything else we're about to send to the competent authorities to study this issue. Dear colleagues, we're on break for 30 minutes. If there's a wish, we'll work. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u83	We continue our work, invite the national deputies to the session room. The issue “Fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES” is under review. This is suggested by the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Population Protection from the Chernobyl disaster of Victor Baloga for up to 15 minutes, the answers to the written and oral questions, 30 minutes from the Hennaday Rudenko committee committee to 10 minutes, Bronnikov to 5 minutes and a discussion to 14 hours. No warning? Yes. Please. The minister has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At the end of the last millennium, namely, on December 15, 200, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant was permanently shut down. . took such a step, in line with the interests of its people, the world community, and the future generation. Ukraine has also fulfilled its commitment under the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the governments of the Great Seven and the Commission of the European Society for the Closure of the Chernobyl Atomic Station. For the first time in the history of nuclear power development, Ukraine has closed the nuclear station by declaring its policy’s openness and predictability, showing to the world that such steps reflect not only our peace - lovingness but also the new dimension of world politics, when the interests of mankind, its nation, the interests of ensuring a high level of environmental protection, life, and human health are first placed in place. We all understood that it would take a long time to work hard for Ukraine and for world society, concentration of joint action and resources. And these efforts should focus on removing the station from operation, transforming it into an environmentally sound "Hidden" facility into a social protection and equipping service staff that is being released. 5 years -- enough time for analysis and analysis is done to determine the results of solving problems that affect millions of people. During this time, governments and high officials, representing almost all the factions of Parliament, have done much to resolve the problem. However, since December 15, 2000, many complex political, economic, and social problems have remained, both directly and with the consequences of the fourth energy cloud’s failure and the implementation of a series of measures related to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station. I must be honest with you, if there are large-scale works on the Hidden site, five years after the final stop of Chernobyl’s AES, the station has started real work on preparation for removal from operation only in recent months. An analysis of the state of implementation of international projects revealed a number of shortcomings, both objective and subjective, and above all in the management of these projects. Dear National Deputies! In line with the Comprehensive Program of Lifting from Operation of Chernobyl’s AES, approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on November 29, 2000, the CAES Industrial Centre is responsible for the construction of facilities related to the decommissioning of the power plant. These are four major projects, three of which are administered by the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, including one at the expense of the Chernobyl Protection Fund and two at the expense of the nuclear security account of the designated bank. Taking into account the key importance of these projects, in the general system of measures related to the closure of the Chernobyl AES, I would like to report on the state of affairs for each of them. First. The shelter of the sent-off nuclear fuel. The conclusion of the contract was in line with the last contract, and seven were unfortunately foreseen on August 31st of the year. However, because of the major shortcomings that made it impossible to license and continue to operate safely, the implementation of the project was halted on April 9, 2003. The situation was extremely serious, since Ukraine suffered both financial and political losses due to the delay in its entry into operation. In addition, safety risks associated with exhausting systems and equipment have increased to ensure the storage of spent nuclear fuel. Realizing that such a situation could delay the work of constructing a new safe confiment of an object of concealment, the government actively searched for a comprehensive solution to the problem, and such a solution was found. It consists of parallel execution of the following tasks: first, to upload spent fuel into an existing temporary wet storage, and this work is started last week; secondly, to intensify cooperation with the contractor of the project, this is Farmat, and according to the results of the audit, which is commissioned by the EBRD Bank, the renovation of the project. [[France]] The completion of the shelter is planned for 2010; the third is the solution to the problem of dealing with. and the flawed way of using another, for example, Russian technology, which is the previous agreement with our colleagues. The second block of issues is the construction of a plant for the processing of liquid radioactive waste. In terms of implementation, the project is the most successful, and the total amount of work done is 97 percent. Problems are either purely technical or related to the coordination of construction work. solid radioactive waste dumps of the vector complex. The construction of the factory is scheduled to be completed in 2006. The third block of issues is the construction of an industrial complex to deal with solid radioactive waste. The completion of the construction contract was foreseen in March 2004. However, the contractor’s fault is a serious backlog and insufficiently justified requirements for additional funding. The situation is complex and can have a major impact on the site’s construction work to build a new secure configuration of the shelter. Questions about the project’s unsatisfactory status and the need for additional financing of completion were discussed at meetings with Euro representatives of the Commission, which took place in October and November of this year. Joint approaches have been developed to improve the status of the project. And this has resulted in a significant increase in the pace of construction and assembly work in recent months. Fourth block of questions. A plan to take action on the “Hiddenness” object. As noted at the outset of the report, the first years of its implementation were not productive. This period was characterized only by a surge of paper reports. By actively and persistently interfering with the government’s situation, the matter has moved from place to place in recent years and has moved on to actual work on the site of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. Among the most important work that has been done in the current year should be highlighted: work on stabilizing the design of the Hidden Object; the development and installation of a comprehensive monitoring system, an integrated, automated nuclear, radiation, seismic control and control of steel structures; the creation of a system of access and physical protection; and preparation for the construction of a new safety. and auxiliary systems. The completion of the work is scheduled for 2006. As far as the new safety is concerned. ‘ then the tender is at the final stage of the winner’s assessment and the winner will be determined by the days. I would like to draw your attention to the work. A comprehensive programme of decommissioning from the Chernobyl AES operation, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 29 November 2000 and the end-of-use programmes for the power grids 1, 2, 3 recently after the creation of the management vertical Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Chernobyl AES, positive changes have taken place in the preparation for the decommissioning of ČAES from the operation and conversion of the “Hiddening” facility into an environmentally sound system. A clear action plan has been developed that will start with 3 blocks in 2006 for 1st and 2008 for 2 blocks. At the same time, there are a number of problems on the way to carrying out a plan of action on the Hidden Object. The total cost deficit to complete the plan could reach $330 million. To address this problem, the government continues to cooperate with the EBRD and donors of the Chernobyl Fund for Coverage to contribute additional funds from the international community to the implementation of the plan. A decision by the Government of Ukraine to formalize Ukraine's additional contribution of $22 million, announced by the Assembly of Donors in May of this year, is under way by an appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Reimbursement for the added value of domestic businesses is about six million dollars. The government plans to pay off VAT by the end of the year and to avoid delaying the deadlines set by Ukraine’s legislation, agreeing on a strategy for further action in the field of fuel - related work. According to the Memorandum of Understanding signed in December 1995 between the Government of Ukraine and the Governments of the Great Seven countries and the Commission of the European Society for the Closure of the Chernobyl AES, a recommended course of action has been developed to provide for three stages of action to transform the Protection Facility into an environmentally sound system. Under the "Hidden" action plan, only the first two phases are being implemented, resulting in Ukraine being given a new localization shell with a period of 100 years and able to begin dismantling unstable structures. With regard to the removal of fuel-efficient materials and other highly active wastes from the Hidden object, to date we have only conceptual solutions, previous estimates of the cost and time needed to implement these decisions. The position of the Ukrainian government is that a secure system will be only after the removal of fuel materials and radioactive wastes from under the new shell. Thus, the international community will now be involved in solving the problem in order to solve future challenges of turning a shelter into an environmentally sound system. A solution to the simplified cross between Belarus and the Republic of Belarus. On the road between Slavutic and ČAES today, papers have been prepared to sign for the Presidents of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. Organization of simplified access by foreign professionals, contractors' staff on the construction site of the “Hiddenness” facility. The government has today prepared a draft of appropriate changes to existing procedures that will be immediately adopted. The challenge is to improve the state of the objects in the alienation zone infrastructure. Unsatisfactory status of the alien infrastructure: highways, railways, dormitories, communications, transportation, and their lack of readiness to engage in large - scale work. It may make it more difficult to do these things. In particular, it is necessary to stop at the social blocks of the Chernobyl AES. In connection with the withdrawal of the Chernobyl AES from the operation of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of important decisions regarding the social problems that arise after the closure of the station. Unfortunately, most of these decisions were not made to the full because they were not budgeted. However, one of the main tasks of maintaining the level of pay for CHEUS at the level of Ukraine’s operating AES was to be carried out. Over the past five years, the average wage has increased by twofold, reaching nearly 2,500 dollars. This also means corresponding deductions to the budget of the city of Slavotic. Not all social problems are solved, but the government is working on them. I think you're together. The problems that have been mentioned and the other measures that I've informed you about, we're going to get closer to the end result of the work on removing Chaes from exploitation. Mr. Andryovich Yushchenk, President of Ukraine, would like to inform you about the results of the work visit to Chernobyl AES by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk. The President of Ukraine noted that the beginning of the release of spent nuclear fuel from the third-energy reactor of CHEUS was a significant new policy on this subject. The first block of work facing the government is to enable a new policy to be implemented at the station and this policy has been activated. The President also stressed the need for a decisive revitalization of international activities with a view to consolidating efforts and more productive filling of the shelter fund. According to the President of Ukraine, the summary of the trip to the Chernobyl area is the signing of a decree that seeks to answer all social issues that have not been resolved. In other words, the organizational, financial, and technical problems of seeing a living person constantly. That is the key to the work of the Government, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and all other issues related to the closure of the Chernobyl AES and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u85	Yes, the Minister's report is complete. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to questions. Letters and lips. Write down your oral questions directly from your peers. Please ask a written question. Victor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u86	Letters, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u87	Yeah, let's start with the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u88	Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. Question: Ukraine’s 2996 State Budget Project shuts down six articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster. On what basis does the government violate the constitutional requirements of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine? With a view to avoiding lawsuits and long-term obligations of the State in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine intends to regulate legislatively the implementation of compensatory payments on the scales established by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers by suspending the separate rules of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster in part of the payment of compensation and assistance in proportion to the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u89	Ludmila Kirichenko, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u90	Please give the word to a colleague of the Stoyan faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u91	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u92	Dear reporter! Clearly, it was not possible to build a Chernobyl station near Kiev in a hundred kilometers. But it did. The tragedy that has taken place is also a tragedy not only for Ukraine but also for the nations of the world. And I ask the first question: Did those who promised to help us close this station when we closed it? And second, for days, the President said that he had politically decreed that Chernobyl should turn into a European landfill of radios. We don't have our own landfills, now we're going to get out of Europe. And then the president said he was going to do an ethnographic museum in that city. Does this mean that those who have not yet received radiation will go to that museum and receive a dose? What is your position on creating a European landfill and opening an ethnographic museum in the area of the 30km zone of Chernobyl? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u93	I'll start with the nicest. And what you're saying, the truth, the honourable national deputy. So many instances of different villages, as many museum exhibits as we have today, I think it takes an exhibition to do that. And what the President said is that this needs to be protected, I think it's just going to add to the level of culture. From the point of view that you say the President has spoken. So I'll say and quote the President's words. “Politically this issue needs to be studied.” You understand perfectly what he meant by “political”. I am faced with laws, three laws that regulate the order of decisions, placement, design, construction of nuclear facilities, and facilities designed to accommodate radioactive wastes that are of general significance. There's an order. It's one law. Ukraine's second law on dealing with radioactive waste. And the fifth article says that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has competence in dealing with radioactive waste. This is an outstanding competence of the Supreme Council. And such assumptions could not be made by the President. The president said that it was politically necessary to identify the body responsible for this. So I completely disagree with the position that the President could say that he would be doing a nuclear waste dump in the Chernobyl nuclear station. And first of all, I don't know what you heard. I have a statement from the President, and I was at the President's office at the time. I don't agree with the position that's being taught. And to the end. The first question you asked. Perhaps as many countries of the Great Seven have met the conditions, you know as much as I do. I've been dealing with these problems for two years. You're in politics for a lot more than I am. And I think you know where we have weaknesses in our relations with the countries of Simka. You know very well what the question was about the granting of loans to Rowena and Hmelnick nuclear stations. But the government thought that these loans were, as a percentage, quite high. Then what was the other condition? What we are, we're using a fund that has to be accumulated and not to be spent, which is one of the conditions of the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction. So if we're talking about whether the conditions at Chernobyl are fully met, I'm going to say that they're not being fulfilled both on the one hand and on the other. But what pleases me is that these meetings and the work that is being done with Mr. Hans Blix, who is the head of the Donors' Assembly, which is being held with Mr. Zhacani, who is vice president of the Bank of Reconstruction, who will meet in January also the 13th number with Mr. President of Ukraine, and will then hold an extraordinary assembly with us and Kyiv on the eve of the 20th anniversary, tells us that we will work together to find these 330 million that are needed to ensure balance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u94	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u95	The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Consequences, the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, John the Rabbit, the National MP, asks questions. When will the Supreme Council of Ukraine be reviewed by the draft state-wide programme of removal from the Chernobyl AES operation and conversion of the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system? For the time being, by the beginning of December, the project of a state-wide programme is currently under the Ministry of Justice's legal expertise. Once all comments are processed and reconciled at the beginning of the following year, the draft national programme will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then there will be no more two social programs agreed upon by the government and one technology that will unite into the law that you ask me about, a respected national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u96	Yes, Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u97	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Minister, please tell me it has been 20 years since the Chernobyl disaster, five years since the closure of the nuclear station. But today, the mass of problems, specifically in the social sphere, the disabled are not fully provided with free medical care, and the disaster recovery programmes for the victims are being reduced, especially for children. There is still a considerable debt from compensation payments. We MPs have practically received most of our letters related to Chernobyl from these very questions. From your information, I understand that maybe not your questions, you think, but you're speaking on behalf of the government today. Your information doesn't exactly explain how the government is going to solve these social problems today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u98	Thank you for asking. When it comes to compensations and benefits to citizens, expenses related to compensation and relief to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, including the first and fourth categories, are incurred annually in full terms of the allocations foreseen by the monthly budget allocations for the year in question. The 2006 draft budget also takes into account the increase in expenditure on the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster against the 2005 level in some way in the area. At the same time, I want to say that for the next fiscal year, there is also a large amount of funding for the purchase of wheelchairs. I'm going to say that this amount hasn't been allocated in the last 10 years, and about 25 million in the budget is the cost of buying cars for people with disabilities in different categories. But the question you have asked is relatively, including recovery, and treatment. Yeah, you're right, the cost of full budget satisfaction for the last 5 to 10 years is not more than 10 percent of what is needed to meet the needs of all categories that are entitled to benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u99	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u100	What is the situation with the establishment of the International Foundation to help solve the problems associated with the closure of the Chernobyl AES? Questions from the Economic Policy Committee. The work on the site of an atomic station, which is carried out at the expense of international technical assistance, is financed from several sources, the largest of which are: Chernobyl Defense Foundation, nuclear security account. and the TACIS program. The absence of a single centralized international fund to help solve the problems associated with the closure of the Chernobyl station does not prevent the international community from helping Ukraine solve these problems. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u101	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u102	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Victor Ivanovich, what's the problem? I am approached by people, including from the Lugansk region, who have left and were evacuated from the Chernobyl zone and to determine the status and benefits for children born after the Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, at the local level, this problem is not being resolved at all because there is no specialized agency in the health system that could establish the disability of the child on the grounds that his/her illness is related to his/her parental exposure. Therefore, as a question, it is necessary to establish an independent expert commission for children at your Ministry's Scientific Radiation Centre. Because Tkachenko Valentina Dmitryevna and Shevchenko Ludmila Mihaylovna and Pavlova Valentina Alexandrovna and many others addressed me. Unfortunately, children have a category that falls out of this system, and to diagnose, make statements and make any final conclusions on the relationship of the child's disease to the dose received by its parents is simply a need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u103	I agree with the question. It's good and, I believe, the person who has addressed you, please address me and I will immediately take steps to establish if, God forbid, you need disability, upon your request. As for the center, I am ready to meet you at any time, to study this situation deeply. I think we're going to make a joint decision with you on the opening of such a center, a separation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u104	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u105	“How many years will such sums have to be spent annually from the State budget of Ukraine before the actual closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station as a nuclear facility?” During the last five years, the Chernobyl nuclear station had planned to provide between 220 million and 280 million. A year's worth of money. The actual funding has always been 10-15 percent lower. These costs were sufficient to maintain the existing state of the stations and pay the salaries of staff at the level of other AES, which is a requirement of the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Conversion of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System. A project of a state-wide programme to remove Chernobyl’s AES and transform the facility into an environmentally sound system by 2010 has planned a significant increase in the amount of work from preparation for and removal from the operation of CHEES’s power cells. The total price of the question is 4.2 billion. December 2010 During this time, in the four nuclear installations of CHAUS, three energy clouds and an active warehouse of spent nuclear fuel will be left with only one – FLAW-1, from which the fuel should be exported to the new VLAP-2 repository by 2016. After that, there will be only one SIDS-2 nuclear plant left in the alienation zone, which should ensure the safe storage of CHEUS spent fuel for hundreds of years. At the same time, the main tasks of preserving equipment and moving to the endurance stage should be completed at the same time. And in 50 to 100 years, the reactors will be dismantled. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u106	Sergey Slightly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u107	Sergey Slabenko, Volin County, 12 constituency. Victor Ivanovich, we understand very well with you that the criticism that is now echoing is unconstructive and, in large accounts, the Ministry has raised a very acute question that has existed for decades in Ukraine. We are well aware that today, without the active involvement of international institutions in resolving such important closure issues, we should not fail. Please tell us what appropriate support programs you see for international organizations can be effectively applied in Ukraine and what is planned to be done in this direction in the sense of the 2006 State Budget in order to address this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. It will be your will, national deputies, to accept the numbers on the issue of the allocation of funds to the Ministry from the extraordinary situations in part of the work involved in the work at the Chernobyl station. At the same time, what I'm saying is, I've already answered your question, we don't have the task of creating another 10 or 20 programs today. We have a question to ask by 2010, and it is imperative that we unload the fuel from three energy sources. We have a question before 2010 to build. We have a question before 2016 to unload from 1 in. Two fuel. These are our main tasks. I'm not going to touch any of the smaller but important issues. And today the question is, what we've done in quality, one is to communicate with the countries of the 'Eights', which are the donors of the various programs and on which we depend in many ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u109	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u110	The faction of the People's Party, the national deputy of Jeremiah, asks: “In recent years, there has been a tendency to continuously transfer the Chernobyl AES from the administration of one executive system to another, with. Energy to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, from Minpalevenergo to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and today from the MNC to the Minpalivenergo. What has caused such changes in the subordination of the Chernobyl AES and how has this affected the effectiveness of its activities?" With regard to the subordination of the nuclear station from NAEC “Energoat” to Minpalivenergo, it was the interior of Minpalivenergo, which was subordinated to both NAC “Energoat” and the nuclear station. The transfer of the nuclear station from Minpalevenergo to the MNS was made, first of all, in order to better and more comprehensively address the alienation zone and the Chernobyl AES. Focusing on one central government, namely the MNE, on addressing the whole range of issues related to the removal of Chernobyl from operation, eliminating the consequences of an accident on the CEAS, including the conversion of the “Hidden” facility to an environmentally sound system, the management of radioactive wastes and spent nuclear fuel, the rehabilitation of contaminated areas, contributes to the implementation of legislation in this area, its harmonization, the maximum efficient use and management of material and financial resources aimed at addressing these problems. CHAES should work in a stable institutional environment, one of the requirements of the international community. The government doesn't plan to send the nuclear station back to Minpalevenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u111	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u112	Olena Bondarenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please pass the word to Mr. Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u113	Victor Terrence, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u114	Thank you, Olenko, thank you. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter, the president spoke of the need to conquer the Blackwater lands. So that means plowing, turning the earth around, in other words, moving those radioactive metals that have gone into the ground a little bit over the years. Now we have to bring them back to the surface and plant them on the radio and on the plutonium wheat. Well, explain to me, please, what is in this development of so-called logic, all the more so while in Ukraine, unfortunately, there are thousands more hectares of land that are not used for different reasons and that can be given truly environmentally friendly products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u115	I'd rather have you and I plow this together and not give it a political tint. Because, in fact, the President doesn't ask today that we do the plowing of one or the other area of the Chernobyl station. There's a question in the second key. The president has set up a task, not to go to Chernobyl with an edge of the forest, not to make any preparations, not to leave in the kind that nature allows for these forests to grow. And today there is absolutely no question before us that we are going to conquer these lands so that you are going to have a rape or something to plant there. We really have enough around the Chernobyl area to sow and grow cultures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u116	Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u117	What work has been done by the Government to find alternative disposal projects. Let me answer that. I want to answer the question in writing to the People's Deputy Kiss. What work has been done by the Government to find alternative nuclear fuel disposal projects, particularly through selective selection of cesium, uranium and other metals, with the possibility of reuse? To a greater extent, this issue concerns support for scientific research, in general, because, at present, in Ukraine, the technology of selective decommissioning of nuclear-fueled radioactive fluids has not gone beyond scientific laboratories, as far as it is possible to introduce them, in accordance with safety requirements, in dealing with potentially hazardous material such as processed nuclear fuels, only tested technologies, whose effectiveness and safety are confirmed and approved by competent scientific and research organizations and by the State Regulatory Authority, can be used. But, at the same time, I would like to say to the distinguished national MP that the work in this direction will be carried out together at his participation, if you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u118	Yes, Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u119	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Victor Ivanovich, the Poltava region is the purest in environmental terms since Chernobyl, but the Poltava region suffered the most in the Chernobyl disaster with human resources. On the third day, we opened two divisions, and more than two tens of thousands of young boys were injured. And now we would have to have a status, not an ecologically clean area, but a very sick area. What is more, our children are also most affected by these diseases. For the past ten years, we have been addressing your predecessors to build a nursery in Mirgorod for the treatment of Chernobyl children. So get into history, you're the minister who built for the children, for the future, this sanatorium, and the children will not only be grateful, but the healthy generations will go away, because we'll be 20 years old, 30 years old, and the children will be sick, and people will die. I'm asking you to consider this to be my deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u120	That's a very nice and right question. I invite you to come to a convenient place for you and for me to visit the Poltavsk region, to see an object, and we will make a decision with you to move this problem from a dead point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u121	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u122	The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, National Deputy Loboda: “Why is the concept of the closure of the Chernobyl AES used in official documents if, in fact, in this case, it is to stop the production of electricity, i.e. the removal of electricity?” The term “exploitation” is basically a technical term issued by the normative document “General safety status when decommissioned from the operation of nuclear power plants and nuclear research reactors”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u123	Yes, is there a Wide Yuri?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u124	Yuri Shirko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Victor Ivanovich! Five years have passed since the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, and you have informed us of what time limits are planned to unload the decommissioned nuclear fuel from the first three blocks of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Please tell me, are there any work being done to find the technology for nuclear fuel deployment or what's left of it from the fourth block, as was said in the early years after the disaster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. To unload fuel from the block, it takes an average of one year to unload. So if we started last week unloading fuel from the third energy cloud, that's the period of completion of the discharge on. It'll be next year, at the end of the year. Regarding the fourth energy cloud, scientific cooperation is now being carried out, both by our scientists and by Western experts. And today these questions are only at the research stage. And the concrete action that we are ready to take today on the issue that you've told me is not going to work. We're supposed to be building a confiment with you today, first of all, by 2010. Then take a look at the questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u126	Igor Sharov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u127	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, Adam Ivanovich. Igor Sharov, Lithuanian constituency. In our faction this problem is taken care of by Gregory Ivanovich Bondarenko. And I'm asking you to give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u128	Please, Gregory Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u129	Gregory Bondarenko. I'm here. Dear Victor Ivanovich, in a special enterprise, you've already given an answer that I'm terribly dissatisfied with. I'm going to speak in addition to the question, and on this point, I'm going to have a conversation with you about it. And that's the specific question. The number of trips is set aside for the healing of the Chernobyl family close to meeting their needs, and even the disabled do not have enough. What is the principle of the distribution of these routes, whether they are given primarily to real liquidators, to those who have worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. In fact, first of all, travel is given to those who are liquidators at the Chernobyl nuclear station, because at the same time, if you say that, and you understand the situation that we have today as a whole during the tragedy, the accident at the Chernobyl station, we cannot solve the issue of financing in full terms of the allocation of travel for participants or those who are likened to Chernobyl. So this is a question, I'll tell you, and politically, and this is a question that lies in the plane of our possibilities with you. You understand very well that neither the government nor the minister will solve this issue on his own. There is a need to make a decision by consensus. What is more important to us today? And there's a lot of directions where there's also a question of social guarantees for one or the other population categories. Can I have a letter?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u131	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u132	How are the work graphs done on closing down the Chernobyl nuclear station and building a new confision, why with each new government coming, organizational transformations of structure, governance and transfer from one to the other, well, it's kind of a repetition. In almost five years since the last stop at Chernobyl Station, the station has never been able to get any real work from the operation. The main problem with the Chernobyl AES in starting operations is the lack of a new nuclear fuel depot, so today our task is to solve this problem as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u133	Igor Shurma, please, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u134	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Minister, I have two parts of the question. On one account of my limit, please answer with one word. Please tell us that you support the proposal, the initiative, the view of the President of Ukraine that the dumping of nuclear waste should be carried out in Ukraine. Support or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u135	The president didn't say that. That's why I can't answer you. The President did not speak on this subject, nor did he raise the question of a safe house in the territory of the Chernobyl station.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u136	Don't say much, one word, because it's on account of my time. Now there is a basic question. If the President doesn't say it, I urge you, like the minister, like the patriot of Ukraine, from the Ministry, to make a statement about the inadmissibility of such phenomena as the dumping of waste, so that the President may sometimes not say such a thing publicly. And the next. Warn him that these decisions are used as propaganda for elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u137	Thank you. And at the same time, I want to say a few more words. The President said that the authorities responsible should be determined politically. I emphasized and read about three laws. You put it back on the political plane -- someone heard something wrong, someone proved it wrong. You don't have to do this!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u138	Yes. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u139	Secretariat of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Is it not a crime to permanently halt Ukraine’s social protection standards for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster with this year’s budget laws? Since 2002, no article of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster has been suspended. At the same time, it should be noted that some articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster provide compensation to affected citizens on a minimum wage basis. It takes about 9 billion dollars to make a minimum wage payment alone. It takes about 30 billion dollars to enforce the law. Taking into account the budgetary constraints, these payments are made at this time in the scales determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as outlined in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u140	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, time is up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u142	Hennaday Rudenko, head of the committee. Please take the committee's position to prepare Bronnick. Get Bronjikov ready. Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! First. I'd like to focus on the question that we're discussing today: “Fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl station”. I understand that for many, the word “Cornobil” immediately includes an automatically general topic of discussing the problems that we are having with Chernobyl. I realize, of course, that in the face of an unsatisfactory social situation, we are focusing on the social aspects of the Chernobyl tragedy in 1976. But once again, honourable deputies, we're back to discussing the 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl station. It is generally difficult when both flies and cauldrons, when both ministries and committees are involved. So our committee has, by the way, taken the initiative that in the country, particularly in the parliament, social aspects should be taken care of by the social committee, and the environmental committee should be looking after the more technological, technological side of the Chernobyl accident, then perhaps centralized, global approaches to politics and environmental and environmental protection, and social policy. So, of course, we're preparing for the general 20th anniversary, the anniversary of the Chernobyl station crash, but we're discussing the 5th anniversary of the closure. First. It is difficult to discuss attitudes toward government officials who carry out such important tasks as caring for the Chernobyl station in situations where permanent changes are constantly taking place. So in the future, of course. We're going to take on some personal responsibility of an officer, and there's going to be a deadline, because in fact there's a lot of mistakes, a lot of good things have been done by some minister or some other minister, and in general we appreciate work as a negative, unfortunately. And then we'll figure out why. There is, of course, another problem: this mentality, perhaps, of government officials, including MPs sometimes, is that we love memoirs very much. And once we signed a memorandum on the closure of the Chernobyl station, we somehow calculated that we could expect more from contracts, from memoranda than it did. Therefore, the impression that they will help us all from the West to Russia and “give” us a large dog is not justified. So we have what we have: there's a fund that's funded today by 920 million. Of these, about $300-400 million is already known. Expenseed. More than 100 million is needed. That's what I'm talking about. It's nice that this time the project has joined, although it's now declared 10 million. US dollars, Russia. We will understand that in the group we may approach the solution of technological problems in the Chernobyl accident. I would certainly like to say that, as the transporters say, horses do not change, and the permanent changes that are responsible for the Chernobyl station -- whether it's the Ministry of Fuel and Energy -- this is the Ministry of Emergency Situations, too, because, on the one hand, the Chernobyl accident is certainly our tragedy, on the other hand, the output of the station from the operation -- is an experience that must remain and be an invaluable contribution to both Ukrainian science and world science. I would like to point out that we lost the political closure of the Chernobyl station because we had a goat. There were not many such goats in Ukraine at any given stage in the country’s development. There was an atomic weapon, we lost it, we had a Chernobyl station that had to be shut down, but the political decision that was made was to be accompanied by a professionally crafty negotiation process and to take the most advantage for Ukraine. Sadly, that did not happen. So again, my point of view is that we lost at the level of diplomacy, at the level of experts, a process that should accompany the closure of the station. And from here we have a variety of phobias, phobias, that are related to what we have been fooled by. I repeat, and in the future, I urge MPs and government officials to be more attentive to all kinds of memos, very clear and careful to read what we are offered and what we should expect from them. Of course, they've already said that in their answers, and the minister said that there are a lot of projects that have a lot of delays in time. There are projects that have been delayed for a year, and there are projects that have been delayed for two years. Every project is so big. Each month of delay is an additional cost, a large cost. I would like to focus on specific issues of the plan of action on the Hidden Object, which can be described as problematic. Of course, today, in such an aberrant regime, we will begin to catch up, on the one hand, with some problems, but it is pleasant. We can note, it's a pleasure that the new station management has been able, in my view, to overcome the principle of a backward or second country in relation to our counterparties, to our partners, and today the position of the station has become more rigid, more principled, and there is a sense that we will be able to make up for that backlog, which is in any way to catch up, even though we've lost so much of it. And what I'd like to do is focus on the numbers. In 1995, we estimated that the construction work at the station would be $358 million, 1998 is already $760 million. 2005 -- we expect a total of about a billion 90 million dollars. So clearly this progress at the same time it has to attract us to the fact that contracts, tenders have to be more clear, more principled and in further such significant increases they have to be really somehow compensated automatically by those who miscalculated something. I would also like to say that, of course, this permanent change in those responsible leads to a lack of clear coordination. In particular, there is an example of the same construction of the second nuclear fuel depot, where the project errors that we thought would be recorded by our French counterparty Fromat, have now become actually our problem, and we still need to look together at 90 million euros for construction. I continue to say that, unfortunately, these constant changes in those responsible do not work. So there is a desire, perhaps not better, but let them work for a period of time and take responsibility. You have to give opportunities, you have to ask. Yes, it's very difficult to operate, to blame. Because three months, six months, a year -- changed, six months -- changed the responsible. Once again, I stress that the huge costs spent on the general issues related to Chernobyl are high. The figures that are echoing at different estimates of social, technological, technological aspects of the Chernobyl accident are about $20 billion. So to find a way to compensate, in part, for the huge -- and in cooperation with the Soviet Union, and already within the framework of independence -- the costs that have been spent on various aspects of the Chernobyl accident are needed, but probably not the principle that the President has declared today. We've been looking at surprises lately. Of course, it's someone's expert that someone brought into their ears, and without dealing with their own fuel that's still working, we're starting to talk about those that need to be discussed only when there's a clear opposition in Parliament, a clear parliamentary majority that supports the President's actions. In a situation where it is not available, ambiguous projects, such as burial or folding, may not need to be declared. But I'm going to emphasize to the MPs that, of course, the nuclear fuel of our own production, and that we don't have the development of the nuclear industry in Ukraine, it's all happening. And maybe this is where we need to work out the principle of security that we're interested in as a committee, and only then talk about things, how we can make extra money on this. The first and key question that we're interested in as a committee is security. Today, these delays, the backlog of schedules, the additional costs of us as the Committee on Environmental Affairs are certainly worrying and we would like to see those requirements imposed on the Ministry today by the Chernobyl station on the basis of compliance with the licensing requirements that the Commission is in control of the State Commission on Nuclear Regulation have fulfilled. And only after that can we talk about something else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us now listen directly to a specialist in these matters. Vladimir Bronnikov, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u145	Honourable People's Deputies, distinguished members of the Government, distinguished participants in the Government's Day on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. It is the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, and not at all the problems of Chernobyl, which include the problems of the destruction of the 4th bloc, the problem of liquidators, the problem of victims, the problem of the rehabilitation of the territory. We'll talk about that when we analyze how we spent 20 years? And this is the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. We're fixing the result of the fiveth anniversary. The closure of the CAEC was not carried out. By national and international standards, the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant remains operational. The deadline for the authorization of the Chernobyl Nuclear Regulatory Committee by the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is soon to end. Probability of obtaining a new license, without neglecting the norms and regulations in nuclear energy, zero. All these years, the country has invested a lot of money in the security of the Chernobyl site, taking them away from other pressing needs of the country. I will try to identify the root causes of the situation. In our opinion, two of them. The first is the immeasurable politicization of the problem, while that is the challenge for the professional atomizers. The West also manages to do business, business without respect for Ukrainian interests. Promises a loan that we didn't get for the construction of Block No.2 of the Hmelnick nuclear power plant, Block No.4 of the Rowen nuclear power plant. Issues a number of conditions under Chernobyl. For example, to separate it from the Energoatom and our politicians take it to the front without even trying to escape the consequences by completely dissuading professionals from taking part in the decision-making process. At first, the Chernobyl station is set aside from the nuclear campaign, which means that it is separated from professional technical policy, and then completely withdraws from the Mintope, thus finally breaking technical policy, creating a sharper shortage of the professional staff of atomic managers. By the way, we never got a loan to close. The consequences did not slow down. So far, Ukraine has no technically and economically sound conclusion from the operation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. Donor money is primarily spent on Western firms, which are often neglected by national norms and regulations, and the views of Ukrainian atomizers. The apparent confirmation of this is the Fromat facility of the spent nuclear fuel storage facility. With our politicians letting go, the weak resistance of the management of CHEC, the Mintop and the State Committee of Nuclear Management, without substantiating the technical suitability of the repository, has built an incompetent facility, spending millions of dollars, and now, seeing Ukraine's current position requires as much money and time as it still does not justify the operation of the facility. The first time he wanted to install such an object in Ukraine, he received a turn from the gate, then the politicians had not yet managed nuclear energy. The second root cause of the problems posed by the Chernobyl nuclear energy and radioactive waste management at the Chernobyl AES should be political errors in the management of the industry. In the near past, the industry was only part of the nuclear energy of the USSR, and now, in the context of Ukraine's independence, it needs the constant attention of the first persons of the State, which is possible only if the nuclear industry is allocated to the autonomous sector, with its full depoliticization, professional leadership, since even an outstanding decent financial specialist cannot be the first to lead in nuclear energy. We will recall the sad experiences of the Chernobyl disaster. Only through the introduction of professionalism and public administration responsibility can all the problems of CHEC and all the rest of nuclear energy be addressed. Only in this way will we not create problems for ourselves in the future, problems for our descendants. After all, the decisions now taken to eliminate the Chernobyl nuclear power plant will affect the lives of Ukrainians decades and hundreds of years from now, or even a millennium from now. The actions of MINFIN and Governments to recover money from the future costs of the existing nuclear power plant for the immediate needs of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant cannot be justified, however important they may be. That's how our future goes, more precisely our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u146	Honorable colleagues, reports, and co-reports have been delivered. Let's move on to the discussion. To that end, we need to continue our session for 15, the morning session for 15 minutes. 30 minutes for discussion. We're going to the factions right now. Olena Bondarenko. Of those who have signed up, I will give my word from the factions. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u147	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. First of all, I'd like to go back literally to a few words to a question that you and I obviously haven't heard from the Minister's mouth. So who, after all, brought the President of Ukraine to the so-called sound of a political decision that Ukraine is going to turn into an international nuclear dump? We never got the answer to that question with you. And, if this is not true, it is obvious that it would be necessary to make public the denial of information that is now heard not only in the Ukrainian media but also in foreign media. And to correct the despair and anxiety of people who are constantly calling and calling us, what is going on with the national MPs? Because it is understandable that this criminal idea cannot be embodied in any way, and the Yulia Block of Tymoshenko will consistently stand up for this position. Now, with regard to the questions that I would like to outline directly in my speech. First. The collective dose of CHAS personnel in 1985, one year before the disaster, was 25 people/supervert. All the years before the station stopped was one and a half times higher than this, in 2000, after the closure of CAES, the collective dose started to drop, but since 2003, a systematic increase in the collective dose of radiation received by ČAES personnel began to occur, with the total number of staff shrinking. This can be caused by a deviation from the generally accepted method of decommissioning of atomic blocks when a 30-50-year interval is made for the operation of contaminated equipment after the release of nuclear fuel from the reactor plant. IN TIME, the dismantling of radioactively contaminated equipment was initiated with the aim of selling it. As long as there is not, the approved state-owned decommissioning program, the station’s management is starting to work on its own judgment. Secondly, in order to remove social tension among the ČAES and Slavotic residents, it is necessary to synchronize the rate of reduction in the number of station staff with the pace of creating new adequate jobs for staff. As a result of virtually annual restructurings and contractions, there are feelings of uncertainty about tomorrow, temporaryity. We have not been able to transfer Chaes from Minpalevenergo in August to Minnavirneergo, as is the conversation about the purpose of handing it back to Minpalevenergo and so on. The collective is getting older and, in the meantime, there are no experts in the exploitation of the AES, and the demand for them will soon be felt by all countries. Next. We do not have objective information on the state of affairs regarding the removal of blocks from operation. On August 4, 2000, the government of Yushchenka proposed the Deputy Prime Minister for Fuel and Energy, Timoshenko, to establish an information centre for the collection of objective information. So it makes sense to create an information service at the station that works closely with the relevant committees of the Supreme Council. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u148	Thank you. Filthyev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u149	Anatolia Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Respectable colleagues, respected by Vladimir Mihajlović, have always paid special attention to the problems of Chernobyl. We understand their importance to normalizing the lives of millions of people, to gain peace and confidence in tomorrow, and to reaffirm Ukraine's credibility in these matters. Five years since the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, in our view, will once again address Chernobyl's problems, understand and analyse what has been done, and take realistic measures to improve the security of the zone. Which I would like to draw your attention to. On 28 December, 10 years have been completed since the signing of the Chernobyl memorandums between Ukraine and the countries of the Great Seven. The international community insisted on closing the Chernobyl station, which was done in what has been called a solemn setting. What did Ukraine receive in response? It had been disrupted by the majority of the paragraphs of the memorandum, including the position of a large seven. Some experts believe that the aim of the request was to close the station with such a reactor and to deprive Ukraine of a potential producer of nuclear weapons. It is also resolved. The larger seven are now trying to impose the view that Ukraine is increasing the risk and gravity of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station, which means that all the burden of eliminating its consequences should be shifted to Ukraine. Of course we can't let that happen. Of course, Ukraine's primary responsibility must be taken over, but the Government must find ways and means to involve the world community in resolving the Chernobyl problems, as we alone cannot overcome them. In addition, the secret becomes clear. What do I mean? Clearly, the West has set its goal not only to close the station but also to make it a dump of nuclear waste all over Europe. This, as has already been said here, is evident from the shocking statements made by our citizens by a senior official of Ukraine. I've heard it myself, and if that's not the case, let's actually deny it. The socialists often object to the fact that we do not always support its decision. On behalf of the Socialist Party, I make it clear to all the fellow citizens who listen: "We will never, under any circumstances, support such and similar intentions. Moreover, we will do our utmost to ensure that they do not take place under any circumstances. And the last. Unfortunately, in Ukraine, 20 years after the accident, and five years after the closure of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u150	Anatoly Rahansky, the “Trust of the People” MP. Prepare Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u151	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, between the faction “Deputy-blacks” and the political party “Trud Ukraine”. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, colleagues, members of the government, dignitaries of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster that will never be erased from mankind’s memory. This problem has no parallels in the world and therefore requires a concentration of efforts on the part of the executive and legislative authorities of the State. In discussing the question of the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl station, it is important to note whether it was worth closing, and what did this give our State? Its closure caused serious economic, financial losses to the state and its people. After politically closing Chaes under pressure from the Great Seven, in exchange for the help that has never been received in the promised form, Chaes has been in a state of waiting for the work to be removed from service for five years. Because it's impossible to remove fuel from the reactors, there's an overcrowded cache of sent-off SVL-1 nuclear fuel, and there's no built-in SVL-2. During these five years each year, the state spends 250 million dollars on the maintenance of an artificially preserved station from the State Budget. That's right. Experts estimate that her recovery from exploitation will be delayed for another five years. Colleagues! Imagine what could happen if the fuel that was fired would not be anywhere to go when the temporary repository number one crashed. In addition, the number one and three reactors are known to have spent nuclear fuel, and in 2012 the reactor stop time for all U.S. AES Ukraine can be another sarcophagus. At the same time, the media report that the President of Ukraine is expressing the possibility of transforming the area around CAES into a dump of radioactive waste from all over the world. Such intentions could threaten national security and the vitality of the state. Conclusion. The structure of the management of the Chernobyl problem requires immediate root examination. We, the Chernobyls, ask the President urgently to create the Ministry of Chernobyl. Colleagues, on Thursday we'll be looking at the draft budget for 2006. The government proposes to suspend a number of articles of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Victims of the Chernobyl Disaster in 2006. I think you and I have enough courage to prevent the government from making an anti-constitutional proposal to suspend these articles of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, “Our Ukraine” faction. Prepare Georgie Bondarenko. On the subject of “Hiddenness. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yukhnowsky, “Our Ukraine”. The Chernobyl problem has several aspects. The most important of them is ecological. Today I want to bring to the general knowledge of the degree of danger that's going on and on as a result of the processes that are going on inside the fuel-input masses that are in the middle of the 4 energy cloud. These processes were researched, calculated and predicted development as a result of joint research by scientists at the Institute for the Safety of Atomic Stations and the Institute for the Physics of Condensed Systems. The point. Next. Our scientists discovered for the first time that the interaction of high-charge uranium, plutonium, and others with the water that is present has resulted in an intense breakdown of water molecules into oxygen and hydrogen for one reason or another. Mollation results in hydrogen molecules that act with tremendous force on the surrounding substance and cause its decay. The intense decay of the fuel mass is also due to radioactivity, especially alpha radiation. As a result, the fuel mass falls to microscopic particles of a billionth of a metre. These particles are shown to be loosely suspended in the air, and they can exist there for years, and they can be carried for thousands of miles by weak streams. The time will come when a fog of deadly radioactive uranium dust, America, plutonium, cesium, strontium, and other atoms and molecules with radioactive nucleus will be created in the space inside the shelter. The size of the particles is so small that there are no material filters to hold them back. The development of decay is increasing significantly, and everything that was thought of for centuries stability is not really true. In fact, the complete breakdown of fuel - mass to nanoscales will occur 20 to 30 years later. This is the most serious threat there is. And I officially urge the world community to become involved in this problem. This is a worldwide danger. Time's not waiting. The later we take the fuel - mass separation from the fourth energy cloud, the harder it will be to continue. There are nuclear reactor cassettes working. They represent a valuable energy source that is used and made up in different countries. And if the place of conservation is reliable, I believe that such a raw material should be made up, and the High Council Committee should be responsible for ensuring the safety of the relevant nuclear repository.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u154	Dear colleagues. Now, Gregory Ivanovich, while you go. In the Minister's state of health, so he's in a medical facility right now, but there are representatives, there's the First Deputy Prime Minister, so the government hears and records what we're talking about here. Please, Bondarenko Grigory Ivanovich, Lithuanian National Block. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u155	After listening to what I have been told, I take the courage to say that there is no well - thought - out government policy in Ukraine to deal with the problems of the Chernobyl disaster. A fresh example. At the beginning of the year, a specialized state-owned company called the Blackwater Power Plant from Minpalivoenergo was transferred to the MNP. He's trying, he's trying, he's trying to get it back. And this is about an object that is being watched by the world that creates the image of the state. And what happens to the most acute problem with the social protection of the Chernobyl population is one horror. Governments of all colors tried to cut up the Chernobyl benefits. Today, there is a strong desire to eliminate them altogether. By the way, Chernobyl payments are not benefits, it's compensation for losses, especially those related to health, and maybe it's worth cutting. With compensation, it is unacceptable to do so. For the sake of justice, it must be said that the holdbudget cannot bear these benefits, has never been paid in full. Legislation is not what's populist, it's terrible. Paying liquidators, for example, is little different from evacuating them. Although the first one was near the reactor, they were breathing death, while the second one was 10,20 miles [10,20 km] away, not for long. The light areas in general are questionable, and the main ones, the copiers, are therefore ineffective. This bitter list is endless, imperfect, where old - fashioned legislation has long had to be corrected, complemented, this has not yet been done. The state doesn't even have a Chernobyl concept. The old one's exhausted, we can't confirm the new one. The need to build a sarcophagus-2 will make the station 100 times more difficult. The situation is not uncommon. To my conviction, it is caused by the absence of a full - time authority in Chernobyl. My position was supported by the 2004 parliamentary hearings, but everything remained the way it was. I've been addressing the former president, the present one is a zero reaction. The Chernobylites say when they meet: dig up, dig up, dig a big hole and wrap us all in it, and fill the cross with a portrait of the culprit. It's not an option, of course. Protect your rights, your venerable niggers, your protests. The Constitution affords this opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u156	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Get ready, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u157	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! UNODC has always been concerned with solving the problems of people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. After the closure of CHAES, the government and the Supreme Council were to solve three serious problems. First of all, it was necessary to solve the problem of the storage of spent nuclear fuel. In order to do so, it was envisaged to build a nuclear fuel-2 repository with the aim of loading it with fuel stored in the primary pools and reactors of the first, second and third blocks themselves, as well as with the fuel stored in the FMCT-1 repository, which ended in 2016. This is not done, because the FLAG-2 was due to enter into force in 2003, then in 2005. As you have already heard, Your Honor, the next deadline for the entry into force of the FLAW-2 has been announced in 2010. So the government and the Supreme Council have to do everything they can not only to build the depository of the Working Nuclear Fuel of SWITZ-2, but to build it as soon as possible in 2010. The government should also pursue such policies with regard to the French firm, particularly to speed up the entry into force of the SWITZ-2 earlier in 2010. The second task is to stabilize the lid of the sarcophagus over the fourth block, as well as to bring over the sarcophagus a new extra coating, so called confiment, the government convinces us that the work on sarcophagus stability is almost in line with the graph. Oh, God, keep it that way. But the government and we need to work so that the construction of a new cover over the sarcophagus takes place as quickly as possible and in a structure that will allow the broken block to be dismantled and turned into an environmentally safe green halo system. Working in the government of the minister of ecology, I insisted that the new coating should have room for the installation of equipment and equipment to develop the damaged block. Once again, the government convinces us that such a space will be that the necessary parameters of the new space are formed in a technical task. Again, God forbid it be like this. But right now, we need to take care of the saturation of this confilence of the power supply system for the removal and conversion of nuclear fuel for radioactive waste from block four and turning it into an environmentally safe area. The third task after the closure of ČAES was to solve the social problems of those who worked for CHAES and who live in Slavotic. The authorities have committed themselves to providing jobs for those who worked for Chaes and Slavotics, as well as to solving a wide range of social problems. In order for this to happen, we, honourable national MPs, need to raise the status of government programmes to the level of legislation. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party proposes to raise the status of government programmes to the legislative level and provide them with adequate budgetary funding. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u158	Ludmila Kirichenko, “Ukraine” faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u159	Kirichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Today, on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Czech Republic, the authorities are trying to prove with all their policies that such a problem no longer exists in Ukraine. Consequently, there are no people affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The financing of the Chernobyl benefits was already under way this year. In the 2006 draft budget before us, the amount of shelter has been increased by 31 million. However, the same document suspends many types of payments to people, including interest-free loans for change of residence. It cancels the supplement to the pensions and scholarships of the unemployed and grants to those working in the exclusion zone. The abolition of annual health assistance is planned, the difference in compensation for the establishment of a higher group disability or the loss of a breadwinner will not be paid and, as a result, the financing of the Ministry of the Ukraine for the emergency and protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster has been reduced even from the first option of the 2006 State Budget by 240 million. Of these, 80 million were seized for concessional medical care and 220 million for the recovery of the Chernobyl disaster victims. True, the Government assures that by increasing the funding of local budgets by 1.2 billion, it provides the population with all social guarantees. Is that so? Even at first glance, it is clear that it is not. For example, the Ministry of Health has seized funding for targeted programmes worth 615 million, and only 440 million have been added to local budgets for the same purposes. We are well aware that there is no wage funding in the local budgets today. Where will that money go? Such a financial regrouping would further exacerbate the attitude of power towards the problems of people in need of public social protection. That's why black people are raking under the walls of the Supreme Council today. Many of them are most insulted by the President's statement of the economic feasibility of turning Chernobyl into a world landfill of spent nuclear fuel. This is beneficial to Ukraine economically and politically, we will understand. Honourable deputies, 47 million people remain in Ukraine. Is the President's position worth such a sacrifice? The “Regions of Ukraine” faction considers such a policy to be anti-national and requires a radical review of approaches to financing the Chernobyl problems. Nor should we pretend that these problems no longer exist in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u160	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u161	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Five years ago, Ukraine set a world example of national self - sacrifice for global security. Because from an economic point of view, we've taken a very difficult step for the state, after the modernization of the Chernobyl power grid reactors, we've been working for at least 15-20 years. In accordance with the requirements of nuclear safety, the fuel from reactors should be unloaded and stored in equipped special storage facilities during the phase of withdrawal of CAES. There is no such shelter here, for the shortcomings that have been detected have led to a halt in its construction. As a result, the deadlines are delayed and the project is costly. There's nothing to blame for that. Ukraine has proved to be unprepared for the transformation of the shelter into an environmentally safe system. There have been signs of a lack of a corresponding state-wide program, which, by the way, still has no infrastructure for an integrated program for managing radioactive waste. We are convinced that we need to find out who is conveniently disbursed without a program that clearly records funding periods and is primarily responsible. In addition, when it comes to Chaes’ problems, we need to be clear that it is not just about the problems of the station, it is about the troubles of all those affected by the terrible accident, which is the social aspect. We would like to remind the government of the words of the then President of Ukraine at the time of the closure of the station: “No one of these people can be and will not be abandoned,” says the word endures everything. But whether people will endure. After all, many social regulations and programs have remained unfulfilled, even though their deadlines have ended on paper. For example, the draft Act on the State Social Protection Programme of the Chernobyl AES Workers in relation to the closure of the station, the deadline for January 2001. Neither old Kabmin nor new Kabmin has brought the Supreme Council to this day. The issue of the Slavutić budget and a whole range of issues remain unresolved. However, money has emerged to transform the territory into a dump of danger and risk in the form of radioactive waste in the heart of Ukraine. I am convinced that it is not the best inheritance anyone wants to leave to our children and grandchildren. The Lithuanian People's Party will never support such a thoughtless idea. We point out that the government is offering the Chernobyl tragedy simply to be silently forgotten. After the work by the Cabinet of the State Budget project for 2006, the financing of medical benefits, which is more than 300 million dollars, disappeared altogether. The faction of the People's Party can't agree with that. Therefore, we demand that the benefits mentioned in the next year’s budget be restored and that the social protection of the victims be strengthened. And to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u162	Thank you. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Peter Simonck.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u163	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In our materials, the government states, however, that in view of the increase in the size of the basic pension, most nonworking pensioners of the Chernobyl AES do not receive a monthly allowance for it. And not a word about what will be done to change this situation. And that's considered normal. So Ukraine is at the threshold of Chernobyl's number two social catastrophe, and that's fine. So I'd like to tell the members of the government who are here, that the faction of SDPU(o) for a budget where these benefits are not available, including for black people, will not vote. I can thank you. The MP's faction of SDPU(o) states that the first steps that need to be taken within the question are immediate steps to repair the emergency sarcophagus. Ukraine lives in fear of a possible recurrence of the Chernobyl disaster. This eerie accident of the sarcophagus is known to all. Rumors of a new accident are constantly spreading throughout the country and in Kiev. In the alienation zone, everything is built: a nuclear fuel shelter, a factory, a boiler room -- everything you want except a sarcophagus. And he's falling apart in the meantime. And today, all who listen in Ukraine need to know that citizens are deliberately exposed to danger and are at risk of a repeat technological catastrophe. In view of the latest developments that have taken place around CAES, it is generally a matter of the purpose of such a large-scale expansion of the site’s construction project, especially of these repositories. In all likelihood, the authorities determined that Ukraine would become a nuclear waste dump in Europe. And all of these are needed for the hazardous wastes of nuclear energy from all over Europe to be stored from all over the world in Ukraine. A nuclear grave on Ukrainian soil near the capital -- it was only a nightmare. The very discovery of a nuclear grave is that price, which is actually a bribe that is willing to pay the President for his EU and NATO membership. And in those nuclear waste dumps, NATO's waste is going to be stored, and people need to know when to think about the referendum. The MP's faction of SDPU(o) strongly condemns any attempt by the authorities to open up. On Ukraine’s territory, nuclear waste claims that all its forces and actions and available methods will defend the Ukrainian people’s right to life in a clean country. No economic merit can be used as an excuse for betraying his people’s actions. We demand that power be removed from the agenda in Ukraine in the shortest time possible. On his trip to Zaporozhye, the president said that the government official was a layi. I'm sorry, I respect you all, but I address you as a human being. Do not be greedy and make a statement from the government that you are for the burial of waste in Ukraine or not. Otherwise, you'll be like the President said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u164	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. And a minute of Boris Oily from the non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Dear radios and television audiences! After burying ČAES under the direction of the European community and the “great seven”, the regime in force in Ukraine did virtually nothing about the operation of the station. The state of implementation stated in the project can be described as: hopeless backlogs from scheduled terms, significant increases in project implementation costs, insufficient project coordination and inefficient management. This has become possible as a result of the EU's tough demands and the'seven' for the implementation and reform of our economy. As a result? First. Energy has been converted into a powerful channel of theft and constant increase in tariffs. The other one. To this day, they have not been able to find where $400 million has disappeared as the cost of a stabilization fund for nuclear arms smuggling from Ukraine. There was a real threat to Ukraine's energy security due to the fact that the power of the nuclear power plant is being used too much to match the energy produced. We Communists require a comprehensive approach to solving problems. In five years, though, crime policy has led to a significant backlog of construction, primarily of nuclear fuel waste storage for all years. This is also a breakdown in the terms of construction of an industrial complex, which will lead to a break in the preparation of the site for the construction of a new “Hiddening” facility. In our opinion, the Attorney General's Office should have long wondered why the company Fromat, which has never been involved in the construction of nuclear waste repositories, is doing so. And they're using old American technology, and they're winning a tender for those who've been doing it all the time. What it is: lack of professional training or bribe size The Office of the Attorney-General and the Court of Auditors should provide an answer as to why budget costs are used without the adoption and approval of the Supreme Council of a state-wide programme of decommissioning. The Office of the Attorney-General and the Ukrainian Security Service also have to answer why only 608,000 dollars have been used to create jobs in Slavotici since 2001; why pensioners have not received a monthly pension allowance for the social protection of workers who are released in this year; why there has been a critical situation in the health care of the station staff. The Communist faction suggests that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is unsatisfactory. In connection with their mass campaign for the elections, I feel that this proposal deserves not only to underestimate their work but urgently to send the entire Cabinet of Ministers to resign and replace those who will work for an independent Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u166	Please, Boris Oilynik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u167	Thank you. Closure as well as export. The weapons were being captured under the pressure of the forces that planned to turn Ukraine into a test site after possible nuclear attacks into a laboratory for living research. And we, as always, took it under our covers. As a result, the international scene decided not to hide its intentions. And in Vienna at the beginning of October, under MAGATE, she simply called us shulers, which repeatedly exaggerated the negative effects of the Chernobyl tragedy, building the entire industry on a fabricated disaster. And it's not as insulting to these assholes as it is to be ashamed of being silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Although the vast majority of those who participated in the discussion and did not specialize in nuclear energy, they gave a political assessment of the problem that we are discussing. The point of all these grades and performances was perhaps to the next five years of failure. Five years of stoppage, and I don't know if you turned? I personally drew attention to the comments of our specialist, our colleague Bronnikov, who said the station was not stopped. It's stopped formally. The station lives and, if you will excuse me, breathes and breathes the danger that needs to be mitigated. And if we finance these problems the way we now finance them, if we pay as much attention as we do now, or until then, these five years we've allocated to this problem, it's going to be unsolvable. And it might create, I wouldn't want to cause trouble, but it might focus on a new, as they say, catastrophe. And we should never let that happen. I'm completely in solidarity with those of you who focused on the problem of how to use it in the future, in behalf of the state, in favour of this disaster? And maybe those words about the world's refuge or the Europeans were said under another promise of a price tag. We've been promised more than once, we've been sworn in, we've been beaten in the chest by nuclear power plant security and elimination: shut down, eliminate, give up, stop, we'll help you. Where is the help? And why does our government not seriously put these problems to the fore that international society, in practice, does not fulfil its obligations, the data in a loud voice, the data in front of the world, introducing our society, us, the state, into deception? Yet, this was done under the United States guarantee of a large eight. The data guarantees, we listened to them one more time, we went on, sorry, an adventure five years ago, and this adventure ends with another disaster and another trouble for our nation. And the world’s companionship, I'm sorry, wipes out the hand. One more time, we're sorry, we blew up the hooch, and the next time they believed our promises. I think, let's, when we make a decision, now we don't have the strength to take this decision, maybe we'll take it either after the break or at the next meeting, but we'll give a clear, clear assessment and express our Ukrainian position on this problem, our vision and the protection of our national interests. This discussion of issues raised on Government Day is concluded. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is also adjourned. I declare the morning session closed. Break until 4:00.
