ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:04:43]] There were 428 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues! The factions of the Ukraine Region, the SDPU(o) require a recess and a meeting of the Conciliation Council. So let's think about it this way: let the Supreme Council continue to work, lead by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, please let's talk about what the problem is. Let's do it this way, I suggest. A break of 30 minutes to 16 hours is announced for 35 minutes. The leaders of the MPs and the factions are requested to meet in the head office in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u2	Please, dear fellows, take up your jobs. Two factions took a break for the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council was held. Now, representatives of the factions who took time off will inform you what they took for, and I'll inform you about the outcome of our agreements. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u3	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, dear compatriots. Our understanding and patience moved us to deal with the situation. Today we had the opportunity to obtain so - called information from the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. We may have been able to deal with this with the greatest amount of patience and understanding we have ever had. At 2: 00 p.m., an investigator from the Ministry of Internal Affairs didn't come to the courthouse. The representative of the Attorney General said that he lacked information on the legality of the grounds for the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Boris Koleznikov. This caused us to worry. We turned to the hall of honor, to the Conciliation Council, asking that we respond immediately to these facts. We had hoped that today the head of the Donetsk district council, Boris Kolesnikov, would be found in court under guard. Unfortunately, the investigator didn't come. Once again, the prosecutor said that he did not know why Kolesnik was detained. Moreover, now, as we know, a state of affairs five minutes before we resumed our meeting, the Ministry of Internal Affairs investigator did not return to the meeting scheduled for 16 hours for 30 minutes. Moreover, there is an earlier information that has been exchanged. This all points to a number of points that, I hope, will be answered in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, which I hope we will support, and about which the chairman will tell us at the meeting of the Coord of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Thank you. Thank you for your solidarity. I'm convinced that today it's not about the geographical location of the region, it's not about the party membership of our colleague, the deputy district council. It's the rule of law, the right of a citizen to defend himself in society, to defend himself in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, I thank Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich for giving me his word. Now let me inform you, dear colleagues, of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. After discussion at the Conciliation Council, we reached that conclusion and made that decision. First. To entrust the committees on law enforcement, law enforcement, the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Human Rights and the Committee on Combating Organized Crime with all the conditions of compliance with the law while detaining the head of the district council of Kolesnikov and when considering the issue before the court about keeping him in custody and providing relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow. We have also agreed that we will now put to the vote the issue of inclusion in the agenda and hearing tomorrow information, additional information from the Minister of Interior and the Attorney General of Ukraine on this matter. Eleven o'clock tomorrow. Dear colleagues, regarding the commission of four committees, the heads of committees here are present, I think we don't need to vote, I think we protocolly give the commission and ask to ensure its execution. I ask the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor the implementation of this first paragraph. As for the second item, about the inclusion in the agenda and hearing tomorrow's information from the Home Secretary and the Attorney General at 11 o'clock, I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please vote. Vote please! [[16:45:44]] For 297 Decision taken. It must have been the wrong place to install cards that did not work. However, the decision has been made. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 18, Communist faction - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 50, National Party - 29, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 27, Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 8, SDPU - 21, "One Ukraine" - 17, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Industrial Party - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 13, "The Union" - 13, "The Union" - 13, "The Union" - 13, "The Union" - 13, "The Union" - 14. [[I'm reading pros.]] So, I think, dear colleagues, that at the moment we have unlocked the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The election of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is under review. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u5	Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, in accordance with article 148 of the Constitution of Ukraine The Constitutional Court consists of 18 judges. The quota of the Supreme Council is six judges. Today, two vacancies have been released, and we have four candidates for the positions of judges of the Constitutional Court. Proposals for nominations are made in accordance with article 7 of the Constitutional Court Act, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and no less than one quarter of the Ukrainian national deputies from the constitutional composition of the judges. At the present time, and yesterday the committee considered these questions, submitted an application for election by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of Vorob Peter Adamovich, Shishkin Viktor Ivanovich. The subjects of these nominations are national deputies. An appropriate number of signatures are collected to support them. In addition, the committee also had special cases on Bordenyuk Vasil Ivanovich and Steczuk Petr Bogdanović, who introduced the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and its powers. So today we are recommended to elect or appoint judges by secret ballot four candidates: Bordenyuk, Vorobei, Steczek, Shishkin. The committee considered these nominations yesterday, we determined that they meet the requirements of article 148 of the Constitution, that is, they are at least 40 years old, have legal education, they have 10 years of experience, they live in Ukraine and they are Ukrainian citizens, they know national language. The committee recommends all to be appointed, but let the Supreme Council determine by voting whom it supports more. Of the four candidates, two must be determined. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, how do we arrange for this issue to be considered? We may ask candidates about five minutes to ask questions, and we will find out how we feel about a particular candidate. Vasil Vasilovich, is that a good offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u7	We support such an offer. I think the question to the judges will be, and I think it's the most rational order of our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u8	Vasil Vasilovich, then thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the registration of the documents, are invited to the podium of Bordinuk Vasil Ivanovich. Next, we will ask Steczek Peter Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for questions. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Peter Kachure. Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u9	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Paul Stepanovich Kachur. Paul Stepanovich Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u10	I'm sorry, Pavel Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u11	Dear Vassil Ivanovich, well, you know that there are a lot of questions with the Constitutional Court about the treatment of these or other events, and this is primarily about the Constitutional Court's general decision when he, adding one plus one, as a result received one, I mean the Constitutional Court's decision on the right of former President Kuchmi to travel for a third term. I would like to take this opportunity here in the rostrum to present my view of the position in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u12	Well, I'd like to clarify the question. You want to ask me if this position of the Constitutional Court can be changed? Because the Constitutional Court’s decision in accordance with the Constitution is binding on Ukraine. And that's why I can't comment on this part right now. Well, as far as that is concerned, and this question arose yesterday, whether a wrong decision by the Constitutional Court could be changed, I believe that, in principle, there should be appropriate mechanisms that would provide for a change in the decision in such cases, i.e. a decision by the Constitutional Court, taking into account the new circumstances or something. Such a mechanism could be envisaged by, say, not 45 deputies, but, for example, most deputies or one third of the deputies to the Constitutional Court. Then this decision could have been made by a more qualified majority. That's my answer to that question. As for the third term, the question is, in principle, solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u13	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u14	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to the colleague of Orzhachiv Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u15	Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Your Honor, I have two questions for you. First question. You're like a lawyer, giving good things to get. To try to obtain a position, you may have your own vision, to improve constitutional legislation. And the second question. You, like every Ukrainian citizen, may feel what is happening in the country today in terms of human resources, in terms of who is taking pictures of whom and who is assigning whom. As you think, what is the level of democracy today in the so-called rule of law that is now called Ukraine in the West. He's responding to how President Bush said we have democracy as strong as we do in Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u17	Thank you for asking. Well, I wanted to say what's going on with the improvement of constitutional legislation, so in this part, I could say that the draft amending the Constitution is precisely contributing to the creation of a more democratic legal state in the face of increasing the role of Parliament in the State machinery in regulating social relations in governance of state affairs. Well, in the part about the relationship between the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Council, I think that sometimes the Constitutional Court outranks the role of legislative regulation in the sphere of social relations. And a very key problem in solving, let's say, the constitutionality of laws, especially laws that are adopted by the Supreme Council, is a very key issue of how to distinguish constitutional regulation and legislative regulation. This does not mean that it is contrary to the Constitution if it is not provided for directly by the Constitution. The Constitution. The authorities can only regulate the relationship between the higher authorities of the State more or less. And for example, with regard to issues of local authority in places of local self-government, these issues, I think, should be resolved, in principle, at the legislative level, to preserve the principles laid down in the Constitution. And in this part there are manifestations that sometimes the Constitutional Court formulates a legal position that has the nature of a legal norm, and in principle they cannot then be neutralized at the legislative level, because it is a matter of official interpretation of the Constitution. And as far as democracy is concerned, I think this question relates to the sphere of political decision-making, and I'm the wrong question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u18	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Steck Peter Bogdanovich is invited to the rostrum of the Supreme Council. The next sparrow, Peter Adamovich, will be. Dear colleagues! If you have any questions, please sign in. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Paul Stepanovich Kachur, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear Peter Bogdanovich! I'm going to say I'm going to vote for you right now, and your job has a positive response, because your students have already called me and said, "This is a very good person, support me." But I have a question for you in fact. You know that the Constitutional Court’s decision provides an explanation that is prohibited from the budget, in order to compensate citizens for their savings, to introduce a category. So we predicted that, with certain amounts from the budget, first of all, we would send them to low-income citizens and older people who actually have trouble paying these savings today. Regrettably, the explanation of the Constitutional Court says that this is a general rule, that all the levels and money are shared among all the investors. Please tell me, do you see a constitutional solution to this problem, because it is really painful, especially for older people who have savings on savings books?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u20	Thank you for asking. Well, there is such a situation that since there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, this decision must be implemented, it is in principle final and is not subject to discussion. But that doesn't mean that in the future, in some way, you can go back to, let's say, some improvement in this procedure. And it seems to me that the most important role in this situation will be actually the legislative initiative and the work in Parliament. Because discussing the decisions of the Constitutional Court here is simply inappropriate already, it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u21	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u22	Vladimir Leschenko Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Peter Bogdanovich, I am familiar with the list of your printed works and here, many of them refer to constitutional law, the Constitution and so forth. How do you think the Constitution of Ukraine now reflects the state of our society? Why are parts of the Constitution not being implemented? And how do you feel about the political reform that is practically done here and the law is signed and will be put into effect soon? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u23	Thank you for asking. The Constitution, as a document, is, for example, a legal one, in my view, a perfect one. Another question is the implementation of the Constitution, the mechanism for implementing the Constitution depends for many reasons on very many factors. It also ultimately depends on the subjects of this realization, from citizens to parliament. That there are many provisions of the Constitution for today. very difficult to implement, well, there's obviously a whole range of objective reasons different from economic ones, let's say, the same environmental ones. It is very difficult to realize, for example, the right to a safe environment when there is a Chernobyl nuclear station. We understand that very well, but this is the norm for a certain limit to the declaration to which we should go. As for the second part of political reform, the adoption in Parliament of the Law of December 8, the beginning of this reform was given. And to me, let's say that increasing the role of parliamentaryism is definitely with increasing the role of democracy. Parliamentaryism and democracy -- things are in synonymous order. That's why it's about increasing the role of parliamentaryism, and that's what this law is all about for me. It does not require any further justification. I think the future is actually behind parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u24	Please, Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u25	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Petr Bogdanović, well, we are well aware that the Constitution is primarily about the protection of citizens' rights, human rights. Here's your personal attitude. To date, a law has been adopted on the proportional system of elections to the Supreme Council. Do you think that there are no violations of the rights of those citizens who are not members of any party today that are not part of a party structure, that they do not support, that we will say, that is, one party or another? Your personal opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u26	I got it. Thank you for asking. The very fact that a law is passed on a proportional basis is obviously positive for the development of a party system and parliamentaryism in general. At the same time, we realize that what's called an active election right, the right to raise, it's kind of left behind here, and maybe the experience of the first elections in this system, let's say, not what's going to shave, but how best to show parliamentarians how to improve this law. But the step toward the development of the party system was obviously a necessary step.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u27	Yes, please have a seat. I invite you to the podium for the position of Judge of the Constitutional Court, Vorob Peter Adamovich. Please. Please sign up for the question. Let me explain. Five minutes. Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u28	Your Honor, I'm right in front of you. A number of MPs have passed bills that essentially cross out the tenth article of the Constitution, which says that Ukrainian language is a national language. So these are essentially constitutional projects. Do you think that if you want to accept them, you need to change the Constitution, or you can view them in the Hall without changing the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u29	The point is, if we adopt laws without reference to the Constitution or not to the Constitution, then, you know, we're not just going to be understood by the legal community, but we're not going to be understood by the average citizen. Therefore, all procedural aspects related to the adoption of the law, the amendment to the law, the addition to the law - everything should be in accordance with the law. That is, we must be guided by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u30	Please, Vladimir Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u31	I also have a question related to the Constitution, the recent elections. During the first round of voting in the media, 25 to 40 per cent of those in the Upper Rada Hall were falsified in the city of Nikolaev, Nikolayev. At the same time, no criminal proceedings have been instituted. No one is brought to justice, no one is brought to justice. Your opinion, this is disinformation that has deliberately infiltrated the hall and into society or the low qualifications of those who should investigate all these cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u32	Thank you for the question, distinguished MP. While I am on this rostrum, I want to turn to the left and to the right: firstly, I, as one of the four judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, must not follow any personal, political or other interests, I must follow the law. So the law must be above all else. And whoever has a bearing on the Law must be a slave to the Law. Therefore, I believe that if there are violations of electoral law, there should be no difference - who has violated the law must all respond. That's a first. Secondly, if we put political ambitions on legal issues with legislation, this will continue for a long and long time. Therefore, my personal opinion is that if a person has violated the law irrespective of whether it is linked to the electoral system, whether it is related to other criminal manifestations, all must be equally accountable to the laws. Indeed, then, all issues related to some political manipulation and avoidance of criminal responsibility and all those related to it will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u33	Please, Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u34	Mr. Claimant, we have a change to the Constitution on the first September or the new year, and these changes have been adopted in a package. You know there's a motion before the Constitutional Court. If you are chosen, you will consider the constitutionality of the adoption of laws in a package. We have adopted changes to the budget in the package, and before that we have adopted other laws, including changes to the Constitution. Do you believe that you violated the constitutional requirement for a thorough individual review of each bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u35	Thank you for asking. The thing is, there are laws that can really be adopted in a package. But there are laws that must be carefully studied, as you say. So, however, without diminishing the dignity of this beautiful MP Corps, I will say that if there are a number of laws in this package that advocate the rights and interests of citizens who serve a good purpose if these laws bear such a normal burden of political, legal, social and social law, such laws may be adopted in a package. With regard, for example, to constitutional reform and, in particular, to Bill 3207-1, such matters must naturally be dealt with separately, sufficiently examined in order to avoid being supplemented by the law, even before it has yet to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u36	Yes, thank you, Peter Adamovich, please sit down. I invite you to Victor Ivanovich Shishkin's rostrum, please sign up for the question. Yes, please, Cathure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u37	Kachur Pavel Stepanovich, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Victor Ivanovich! Our current Constitution lays down the rights of local self - government and the responsibilities of the State for the financial security of the local self - government authorities, and the responsibilities conferred upon them today by the State. Please tell us that we witness every year when authorization is available and there is no adequate funding. That is, when the budget is approved, we are constantly underfunded by local budgets. First of all, this refers to the benefits granted by the Supreme Council, rather than finding appropriate reinforcements for local budgets. Please tell me your position on this matter and how you will act if you are approved by the judge of the Constitutional Court that I wish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u38	Thank you. Well, the first thing I'm going to do is, I probably can't talk about it, because it's a secret counseling room. And as for the theoretical approach to the question that you're talking about, I think we're violating the Constitution by adopting the relevant laws, if this is mentioned in the Constitution, I mean the right of local self-government and the ability to implement those powers that are listed there. But the way out, I think, first: we have to work out a whole new order for the formation of the State budget. Under the current order of state budget formation, we will not always have enough money to allocate money to local budgets to implement those powers. I think, as a member of the previous three calls, that's where I'm going to look for a way out. And by the way, at one time there were suggestions, but unfortunately, they weren't implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u39	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u40	Dear Victor Ivanovich, as we know, the Communist Party of Ukraine was illegally banned in 1991. Then the wrongness of this decision was recognized - the decision was overturned. As you think, whether or not this decision should be followed by a property issue, the return of the property of the Communist Party, the successor of the current Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u41	If the decision is overturned and the primary or primary relationship returns, each subject who considers himself to be harmed feels that he has been harmed by other legal relations, he is entitled to the order that is now in place in the law. No, I'm answering you as it is. They have the right to address public authorities today, including the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u42	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u43	Dear Viktor Ivanovich! Right here, right in front of you. I've listened carefully to your comments on why you can't accept what's called Melnichenko's tapes as court evidence of a person. However, we have a precedent where records of some kind are not known as fabricated or produced. laid the basis for the detention of the deputy of the Donetsk Oblast of Boris Kolesnikov. Do we not have a precedent for ignoring the procedure for obtaining evidence and should the Constitutional Court respond proactively to such violations of the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u44	I'm from the second part of your question. The Constitutional Court has no active function. The Constitutional Court can't initiate anything. He's just looking at what he's talking about. the subjects to whom they are addressed. I mean, the Constitutional Court from the point of view of initiation is in line. He only performs his function when he is approached. As for the first part of your question, I have repeatedly interviewed not only the film of Melnick but the explanation of what is the "proof base" in terms of permissibility and legality. The final body that will decide on the admissibility of any criminal or civil case is the court. It's not an investigative body, it's not a prosecutor's office, it's a court, it's the only one who can make the final decision on the admissibility and legality of the evidence. Reject if he thinks he's not answering. So, for example, a tape recorder, this is more of a theoretical discussion), but still, a magnetolator can also be a evidence base, and it's being used by civil courts today, and I think there's, in my opinion, a so-called, theoretical speculation about sanctions. We need to watch, and who has the right to be sanctioned and to whom this right is distributed. Only those bodies that are subject to hearing may obtain the right to be heard. All the other citizens, each one of you sitting there and I standing there, have the right to deal with similar forms of evidence, that is, with a tape recorder. And it's up to the court, it's up to the court, it's up to the court. So this is a very difficult theoretical question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u45	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. I'm asking Mishur Valery Dmitrovitch, head of the Counting Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u46	Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you once again that the members of the Counting Commission include: Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, Grzezhev Anatoly Dmitrovich, Ivanov Sergey Anatolievich, Kalichenko Igor Viktorovich, Karmazin Yuri Anatolievich, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich, Kostin Bogdan Ivanovich, Mother Vitaliy Ivanovich, Manchulenko Georgiy Manoliovich, Miryev Yuriovich, Nadraga Vasil Ivanovich, Rybikin Pavel Borisovich, Rybichibichiyk Vladimir Leonidovich, Sitnik Kostin Merkuriovich, Sobolev Sergey Vladimirovich, Phomenkoterina Olekherina Olexandrovina, Vladimirovich, Rubichibichiyevsky, Vladimiri Vladimiri, Vilevićević, Vilowijevskyević, Vilaševskyev, Vilaševići, Vilašev, Vilaševići, Vilaši, Vila, Vykevići, Vykevići, and Vykviši. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I ask the members of the counting committee to meet for a meeting. Please take into account what we need to vote today and make an effective decision. The draft decree on the hearing of the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine’s participation in activities to maintain or restore international peace and security is being announced for consideration. I'd like to ask very briefly my esteemed colleagues to base the draft regulations so that we can decide on the decision. Mikola Rudzikowski and from the Committee to prepare Anatoly Domanski. Get Rudzkowski's materials, please. Let me ask you this briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u48	Thus, article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine’s participation in international peace operations requires that the Cabinet of Ministers inform the Supreme Council annually and report on Ukraine’s participation in all peacekeeping operations outside Ukraine. On the basis of an article of the Law, he proposes to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the stay and participation of our peacekeeping contingents with the borders of Ukraine. It means: Iraq, Sierra Leone, and other places where Ukrainian troops are from the designated Supreme Council. There is much information that the Government can provide in preparation for the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, on the terms and conditions of their stay, on funding, and on the whereabouts of other contingents. There is such a need, there is such a legislative obligation for the Government to inform and we must vote in favour of this decision so that we can listen and make our recommendations on the actions of the Government in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u49	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's the inclusion of the issue in the agenda, but we have a lot, I'm asking you. Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u50	The Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The time has come for the government to prove to us what benefit is there from the peacekeeping operations in which Ukraine participates? Let me give you an example. Today, more than one and a half thousand Americans were killed in Iraq, about three dozen Englishmen, 19 of our people Ukrainians. We need to look at the benefits of Ukraine’s participation in these operations for Ukraine itself, which boys are returning to Ukraine today. In America, 40 returnees ended their lives by suicide. If our boys come back here to Ukraine, they'll feel better. Because an American feels that he came there as an invader, as an invader. So I think we need to listen to the government. The committee has considered this issue and considers that the government has reported where we are participating, where there has been any benefit, how the funding goes, whose costs and what benefits for Ukraine. Therefore, the committee asks you to support all of you in order to carry out this task, and it will hear this report from the government on Ukraine’s participation in peacekeeping operations. Thank you. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on hearing the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities to maintain or restore international peace and security is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 4268]] [[17:21:43]] For-300 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Resolution Decision on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status of Young People in Ukraine was announced for consideration in 2005. [[November 23, 2005]] Catherine Samuelk is the head of the Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture and Sports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, you know that according to the 1992 Declaration on the General Principles of State Youth Policy in Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are obliged to listen annually, to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people, and to have the government prepare an annual report on this issue to the Supreme Council, President of Ukraine. And we didn't have this kind of parliamentary hearing with you last year, but this is the subject of "Village Youth of Ukraine." Status, problems and ways to solve them." The problem is very urgent, since there is no delay in rural youth, young people are largely unemployed in rural areas. Today, in every village, young people use drugs and so forth. We need to save young people who live in rural areas for the time being. But the last time these issues were blocked by the faction of the ruling-presidency majority in connection with the presidential elections, and the deputies calculated that this would be used to focus attention on the shortcomings, as if we didn't know what the shortcomings of today are in this particular topic. And so, by addressing you all, I ask you to support the decision to hold parliamentary hearings and to define the subject, "Village youth of Ukraine. Status, problems and ways to solve them."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the report is done. There is a proposal to put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the situation of young Ukraine in 2005. Registration number. November. 7,001 registration number. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u54	Please support everyone. [[17:24:54]] For 321
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u55	Decision taken. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Order "Stan and the prospects for Ukraine's European integration and its participation in the formation of the Single Economic Space" is being announced for consideration. Igor Mikhailovich Šurma, please. Now let's do it this way: we're going to have a calculus commission. If the committee decides, prepares the ballots, votes, and closes the meetings. We can't stop the question. The question cannot be interrupted. Please, Igor Mikhailovich. Please. Yes, the Zarubinski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But I would like the minutes to be more than one minute, because I have to report from the committee on the parliamentary hearings offered by my colleague Schurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u57	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposed by a fellow Shurm on holding parliamentary hearings on "The State and Perspectives of Ukraine's European Integration and its involvement in the formation of a single economic space" was considered at a meeting of the Committee on European Integration. During the discussion, members of the committee stressed that Ukraine’s foreign policy is essentially directed towards European integration, the ultimate goal of which is Ukraine’s full membership in the European Union. It was pointed out that the stated goal was highlighted in particular by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on Ukraine’s Cooperation with the European Union of 28 November 2002. The Committee notes that the purpose of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to hold parliamentary hearings on the mentioned issue for a comprehensive and detailed study and analysis of the implementation of the strategic course of Ukraine aimed at European integration and its relationship to the formation of the EP in the form of Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, Ukraine. During the discussion, the committee stressed that these hearings would allow us to analyze realities, analyze the prospects of our European integration progress, and participate in the only economic space. At the same time, members of the committee stressed that the only economic space needed to be understood was the economic space in which the mechanisms for regulating economies based on the principles of free trade zones functioned. People's deputies noted that the parties to the agreement should promote trade and investment between the parties, which would ensure the continued development of the economies of the parties on the basis of generally recognized principles and norms of international law, as well as the rules and principles of the world trading organisation. At the same time, members of the National Committee drew the bill’s attention to the inadequacy of certain provisions of an explanatory note, particularly concerning NATO, since it was northern. Because Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic integration are not terms and are not phenomena identical. In view of the above, the Committee considers it appropriate to consider at parliamentary hearings the status of Ukraine's European integration course as well as the process of shaping the EP. And he invites the committee to take the stated decision as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u59	Igor Shurma, microphone, please, as the author of the draft decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Unplug the microphone on the stand, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u60	Taking into account the importance of this problem, we advocate that parliamentary hearings be organized on "The State and Perspectives of Ukraine's European Integration and its participation in the formation of the Single Economic Space." I'm taking my speech, considering that I'm solidarity with my colleagues by faction and faction of the "Regions" who are seeking recognition of their position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote a draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings: "The state and prospects of Ukraine's European integration and its participation in the formation of the Single Economic Space," which is proposed in June 2005 to hold parliamentary hearings with such an order of the day. At the same time, I'm informing you that on June 7th we have parliamentary hearings, the theme: "Ensure children's rights in Ukraine, protection of motherhood and childhood." On June 15th, parliamentary hearings: "The prospects for developing the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine". And on June 29th, parliamentary hearings: "Freedom of conscience, identity of person." With this in mind, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings: "The State and the prospects for Ukraine's European integration and its participation in the formation of the Single Economic Space." Registration number 7209. Voting is taking place. [[17:31:20]] For 259. Decision taken. Please, Michura Valérie, head of the Counting Commission, has the right to speak. May I have your attention, fellow officers? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the Counting Commission is ready to vote on the appointment of members of the Constitutional Court. I would like to listen carefully to the voting order. In order for the vote to take place, we need 298 deputies to take part in the vote, that is, the ballots. That's the first one. The other one. There are four candidates for each ballot you receive at the place of registration. The ballot will be considered valid if there are no more than 2 candidates on the list. So the other 2 cans you have to delete. We'll start voting in 17 hours, 35-37 minutes. The commission is ready. And we'll be done in 30 minutes. We'll announce the results tomorrow at an early session so you won't be held. Thank you. We'll vote for 30 minutes. From 17.35 to 16.05 18.05, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, then it's suggested this way. Now, please note, we're going to announce a recess for the vote. A vote will take place. The counting committee will summarize the results of the vote, and tomorrow it will publish the results. So, dear colleagues, I'm announcing a 30-minute recess for the vote and at the same time. What? At the same time, I announce that the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I mean, we're voting now, the results of the vote will be announced tomorrow. I ask everyone to vote. We'll continue our plenary session at 10 o'clock.
