ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:48]] There were 368 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, please be advised to listen. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich into the composition of the deputy faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. And I'm also informing you about the entry of the Ukrainian National MP, Anatoly Mikolaiovich, into the Democratic Ukraine Group. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are being held at the morning meeting of the Ukrainian Government. There are ministers who are responsible for the questions that are planned to be dealt with by Vice Prime Minister Mikola Tomenk of Ukraine. But before the meetings begin, dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The two factions are the factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Democratic Initiatives MPs call for a break. What's the point? Maybe you'll make your application, and we'll work? Please, who's going to be the faction? Who? Oleg Blochin, please. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the motive? One minute, with motive. Well, please, now, one minute, he'll make a statement, then. Well, please, Shufrich, please, what's in there? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Now around And Ukraine, thousands of fans of the Kyiv club Dinamo have gathered to express their respect to you, and so have we. We ask you to include the performance of the Dynamite Veteran, the veteran of the Kiev Dynamo, Oleg Blochin, in the area in front of Maidan. Before the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u3	Dear national deputies, when such proposals were made, we resolved the matter by agreeing. Any warning against turning it on? None. Please, Secretariat: Turn on the broadcast on the street. Please have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u4	Dear President of the Supreme Council, distinguished members of the people! Each nation has its own historic dates, its symbols.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u5	Please, come in, come in. If you'll excuse me, it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u6	What is the Dynamo Kiev football club for Ukraine? This is our symbol. What is Dynamo-Kiev for every Ukrainian? It's our pride. What is Dynamo-Kiev for me? This is my home, my family. I did. [[B in m in s a l in]] I speak for myself. I held 432 matches for this club, and I know that the Dynamo Football Club became a collective enterprise back in 1989. It was the top leaders of those times who led the club into bankruptcy and debt by violent schemes. In the first football championship of the independent Ukraine, the famous Ukrainian club, which was brought to poverty in Soviet times, has disgracefully lost its championship title. Only through the efforts of the leaders of the Dynamo Kiev Football Club in 1993, the club was reborn and won the title and the Cuba Cup of Ukraine. I state that it is the introduction of effective methods of managing a complex club mechanism that enabled a young independent Ukraine to obtain a team that has decorated its symbol with the star of the ten-time winner of the national championship and, with honour, continues its sports path in a tense and now increasingly competitive struggle. Our young independent Power is very proud of the team, which, for eight consecutive seasons, represents our country in the most prestigious European club tournament of the UEFA Champions League. Perhaps not many of you know that across Europe there are only six such teams: Real, Bavaria, Olympiakos, Eithoven, Roussenborg and Dynamo. To those who do not know, and to those who play in the pleasure of business ambitions, I say that the achievements of Dynamo are behind the painstaking work of attracting millions of investments in our Ukrainian sport, i.e. the prestige and image of Ukraine. The Dinamo Medical Rehabilitation Centre in Conche Zaspa is envied by the leading European clubs. And it is this centre, with its grassy artificial fields, modern weapons, that is the reliable rear and, in fact, the only basis for the preparation of our national assembly, just as it is the centre for the training of our young harvesters, a specialized training base on Nivka. And everyone should know that two and a half thousand students of the Dynamo children's school are not only future staff for club and assembly teams, but also a test of healthy bodies and the spirit of Ukrainian citizens. Don't let those of you who don't remember anything about the Dynamo brand cause tension or intrigue, but think about whether they'll benefit Ukrainian football and sports, the whole state of Insinuation around Dynamo. The President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, instructed the responsible members of the Government of Tomenko and Pavlenko to examine the situation surrounding the Dinamo FC and prepare proposals. Let us hope that, in carrying out this commission, they are guided by a sense of responsibility, not by revolutionary desirability, or even worse, by a sense of revenge. And we, members of the people, must defend our pride in Dinamo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u7	Please finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u8	And we, the MPs of the people, must defend our pride in Dinamo, which is the name of Ukraine in Europe. I, the Ukrainian people's representative, who by my will knows what I am talking about, declare that committing lawlessness by covering up widespread justice is a disgrace, a disgrace to us people's electorates, if we do not stop it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u10	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 13 January 2005, the issue today will be "On the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945." The government appointed the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, and the Minister of Health, Mikola Efraemovich Polishchuk. You're given information-analyst materials from this subject by your esteemed colleagues. At the hearings, once again, I would like to emphasize - Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Tomenko, the representatives of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kiev and Sevastopol city administrations, representatives of district councils and veteran organizations. The Special Committee is proposing such a rule of procedure for the consideration of the matter, please note, fellow Members of the Council. For information, 10 minutes for the ministers of Viacheslav Kirilenka and Mikola Polishchuk, to answer the written and oral questions of each of the rapporteurs, 30 minutes from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, 15 minutes, 7 minutes from the Committee on National Security and Defence, and then to move on to the discussion by 14:00. Is there no warning against such an order? It's settled. The report invites Minister of Social Policy and Work Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! An important national issue today is the social, medical, and pension security of war veterans. It's a pleasure that this is happening before the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War. The social protection of wartime participants who protected mankind from fascism during the years of World War II is an obligation, an integral part of our State’s social policy. Today, about a third of the country’s population is working age. Among them are over 3.8 million war veterans. Sadly, the number of war veterans is decreasing with each year. Thus, the provision of a decent life for these people becomes even more acute and timely. I'm going to stop at the core of the government's activities in this area. Many veteran pensioners are still insisting on cancelling the balance sheet. We report that in the case of the support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for changes to the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, the new government will ensure that pensions are financed at the same rate as the minimum of living and will begin to differentiate. The overcoming of the legacy of the previous government will be the first to be felt by war veterans, such as the size of the disability pension of 1, 2, 3 groups will be increased to 491, 451 and 421 bracelets or 60, 59 and 48 percent respectively; pensions for wartime participants will be increased to 401 bracelets or 41 percent; pensions for war-rewarded medals - to 346 bracelets or 22 percent; other war participants - to 341 bracelets or 20 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u13	Váchaslav Anatoliovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! I invite you to the working environment, we discuss a very important issue, we talk about our parents, we talk about our grandparents. I'd like to demonstrate that tolerance. Please, let's listen to this question. Váchaslav Anatoliovich, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u14	These pensions are also increased by establishing special merit pensions before Ukraine, ranging from 20 to 40% of the subsistence minimum for people who have lost their jobs. Since May of last year, the disabled of the Great Homeland War of the first group have been paid, in addition to the established pensions, the amount of which has not been reached by the subsistence minimum, for the purpose of living. Since January of this year, this aid has been increased for the first group of war invalids from 50 to 70 dollars, and targeted money has been set up to support the survival of first - and second - group war invalids of 50 dollars. For persons whose pensions are higher than the subsistence minimum defined for those who have lost their jobs. It should be noted that pensions to individuals with special merit before Ukraine, particularly since the first November of last year, are paid above the subsistence minimum set for those who have lost their jobs. Veterans of war have also established permanent state scholarships. Thus, 239 people with special credits to their Father’s will receive an additional 205 a month, and 100 participants have a scholarship of 165 a month. Every year before the day of victory, war veterans receive a single payment of money. Its size has increased significantly over the last three years. This year, it has been increased by more than 425 million dollars compared to the previous year. There will be increased subsidies from the state budget, which provide benefits and compensation to war veterans. This year, the amount of this subsidy will amount to 4 billion 155 million dollars, which will improve the situation with the provision of housing and utility benefits, free travel in urban, suburban and intercity transport, and so forth. There were 36,000 war veterans in sanitation last year, which is unfortunately only 25% of the total need. In 2005, more than 43,000 war veterans were scheduled to provide sanatorium treatment, 13,000 more than anticipated last year. In 2004, 33 million dollars were allocated to this benefit, of which nearly 12 million were paid for compensation instead of travel. This year’s budget for travel and payment of monetary compensation amounts to almost 35 million dollars. This will increase the amount of compensation for unused travel from 100 to 150 dollars. Another painful problem remains: the provision of special vehicles to disabled people in war. At present, more than 150,000 disabled people are in line, of which nearly 45,000 are disabled by war. Last year, 33 million dollars were allocated to the targets and 2,450 people with disabilities received cars. In 2005, 192 million dollars are planned for the purchase of cars, allowing about 12,000 500 people with disabilities — 10,000 more people with disabilities compared to the previous year. Another 110 million dollars have been budgeted in the form of interrelationships between enterprises and organizations with Autozaz. But in order for this program to work, and for the disabled to have real cars, we need to do more joint efforts both by the government and by Parliament. Because there is no legal instrument to regulate these mutual concerns and to order the receipt of these cars by veterans. Last year, 68,000 war invalids were provided with prosthetic or orthopedic shoes, and over 4,000 disabled people received prosthetics of upper and lower limbs, appliances, tutors and corsets. The need for war veterans in wheelchairs is fully satisfied. At the beginning of the current year, prosthetic orthopedic aid is needed and is being calculated by the Industrial Union of Croprostez, 117 thousand people with disabilities. The provision of war veterans with the necessary technical means of rehabilitation is free of charge, and their quality in the vast majority is in line with the right standards. One form of social support for veterans is the provision of services through the district social services centers of pensioners and lonely disabled citizens, and over forty different types of social services are provided by 747 district and city centres. In 2004, nearly 450,000 war veterans took advantage of their services, and this year it is planned to cover 55,000 more veterans, and this figure will reach 50,000 veterans. It is a pleasure to note that recently, a progressive form of assistance such as the volunteer movement has begun to develop actively in Ukraine. There are over 200,000 volunteers working in the social protection system, including nearly 70,000 retirees and about 100,000 young volunteers. Volunteers in various categories have caught the attention of half a million citizens in need of various kinds of assistance. In Ukraine there are about 20 organizations of veterans with all - Ukrainian status, as well as over 250 organizations of veterans with regional status. Funding from the State Budget of Veterans’ Social Organizations has increased compared to past years. Particularly in the past year, 2.5 million dollars were spent on financial support for these organizations. At the same level, funding will be provided for these organizations in the current year. In particular, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan will receive 1 million 714 thousand budget support or 69 percent of the total amount allocated to support veteran organizations. The organization of Ukrainian veterans is 313,000 dollars or 12.7 percent of total funding. The U.S. Veterans’ Union — 152 thousand dollars of budget support or six percent of the total. Other veteran organizations, from one to five. The government sees it as a fundamental task to eliminate imbalances in the distribution of funds to veteran organizations, to promote the activities of all organizations of war veterans. Let's take a closer look.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u15	Please enable the minister to complete the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u16	An important component of fair social security for war veterans is the need to recognize the equality, social rights and status of all veterans who fought with weapons for freedom and independence of their homeland. An important issue is the preparation for the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. On March 12th of this year, the government approved a new organizational plan for the preparation and observance of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War and measures to strengthen the social protection of veterans. In particular, by May 8, war veterans will have received one single aid from the State Budget, namely: the first-group war invalids and those with special merit in front of the Fatherland, 400 gravel, the second-group invalids, 330 roubles, the third group, 270 roubles, 250 gravel fighters, members of families of the deceased and wives, men of the dead and war participants who are recognized as disabled, 130 bracelets, participants in the war, 50 bracelets. There are the productions and awards of the 60 Years of Victory medals in the Great National War. In the capital of Ukraine, a national celebration of the 60th anniversary of Victory will be held in the district centers. The state will ensure the arrival of veterans from all regions to Kiev, their accommodation in hotels, meals, medical and transportation services. Other areas of Kiev, as well as other cities of Ukraine, will be held on May 9th. Meetings with veterans in military and military schools are planned as well as the participation of the military in the celebration of Victory Day. The organization of this celebration, and to a greater extent the daily care of veterans, remains a common concern for all branches of government, the whole Ukrainian society. As we conclude our statement, let the government thank you for your support and understanding of the problems of the social protection of war veterans and for your confidence that with the joint efforts of legislators and government officials we are able to pay particular tribute to our veterans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, the minister's information has been completed. Please sign up for the question. Let us queue: one in writing, one in direct from the national deputy. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. George Manchulenko, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u18	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Mr. Secretary, thank you for such a detailed report that you have just made, because it is indeed a matter of social and political importance. And what needs to be respected is that the people who fought with weapons in hand for Ukraine's independence are unequivocal. Now there's a lot of speculation on the part of the individual parties and the representatives who have taken huge capital through dishonest labor, that this new Cabinet of Ministers doesn't want to have a sort of victory parade until the 60th anniversary of Victory. I believe that such speculations should find an appropriate response from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And our veterans need to know that it's better to provide them materially than to make showy parades to satisfy someone's ambitions, to satisfy a party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u19	Thank you, Georgia Manoliovich, for asking. I report that on March 12th, the government adopted a plan of action to mark the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War. There are dozens of actions, and they envision both a celebration and a proper level of victory in the Great Homeland War and specific social, medical and household assistance to war veterans. I've already reported the size of every year's financial aid by the 60's of Victory. I will also point out that for the first time, all war participants, not only the disabled of war or those involved in combat, will receive 50 dollars of aid by May 9. This has not been practiced before. Moreover, by March 8, all wartime actors, the disabled who need it, receive the necessary prosthetic help. In addition, special medical issues are discussed and approved by the government, and this will be further reported by Health Minister Polishtuk, who foresees all the necessary procedures that older people need, especially war veterans. There is also an increase in the number of boarding houses that will support war veterans and improve their conditions for war veterans. The list of social services that will be provided to war veterans and the mass of other concrete measures that will become clear to every simple war veteran is also increasing. As for the solemn arrangements, I would like to report that the government has foreseen virtually all the festive celebrations that will properly honor the participants of the Great War. There will also be a reception at the Marian Palace, and there will be a solemn meeting at the Palace of Ukraine, and there will be a huge number of veterans of the War on Baptism and the Maidan of Independence and near the City of Kiev, and many other measures that I think satisfy most of the veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u20	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u21	It's a written question. "Is the Cabinet of Ministers coming to an end in the year 60 of the Great Victory over Fascism and the Year announced by the Year of Veterans, to such a disgraceful phenomenon as many years of disability, including the disabled of war, to obtain a guaranteed car legislation?".. Dear National Deputies! I want to report that there are now 154 thousand people with disabilities in the workforce and social protection. Of these, nearly 45,000 are war invalids. More than 2 billion dollars are needed from the State Budget to provide all the supplies in one moment. Unfortunately, there is no such cost today. At the same time, compared to last year's substantial increase in the budget, which is now allocated to this programme, is 192 million dollars that can already be purchased by disabled people, including those with disabilities, special vehicles. So if earlier, last year, 2 thousand 450 people with disabilities were given free special-car transport, this year alone, 192 million people are going to get more than 12,000 disabled people in a special-car transport program. I also want to report to you on the question, by the way, of the Communist Party's deputy faction, and I want to report that we've all adopted 110 million dollars in the budget, as a mutual account, in front of the Auto-ZAZA company, and these funds should also go to the acquisition of cars for the disabled. However, I want to report that the real mechanism for obtaining cars with disabilities through the cost of this mutual account has not been worked out because the relevant regulatory documents have not been approved. That's why the government and parliament need to create the necessary work units to speed up and make the acquisition of special vehicles by disabled people with the Auto-ZAZ program real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u22	Vyachelav Anatolyevich. Many questions are asked here, if possible, more concisely. Chef, please, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u23	Chef, Communist faction. Dear Viachelav Anatolyevich! I'm talking about the last question. Let's think about it today, because the jubilee for the veterans of the Great Homeland War is probably the last one that's so significant. 45,000 people with disabilities who need a special car. Whether we can fulfill our responsibilities as sons and yet this year, we will be able to provide them with cars before such a remarkable date. And the second question. It is known that not only in the western regions but also in other parts of Ukraine, especially the western ones, have been destroyed during the years of independence by monuments dedicated to the heroes of the Great Nativity war, as you look at the adoption of legislative acts. And they're in the net today, just the government wasn't paying any attention. But for example, in the city of Raven during the years of Soviet power, a memorial of Slava was built, and in the years of independence, it was completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u24	In answer to that question, I would like to point out that, as I reported in the previous answer, the government is doing its best to provide all the disabled people who need it by special transport. But in order for this to be really all, it is necessary for Parliament to work together to the government, including in the drafting of the Law on, changes to the State Budget Act 2005. Perhaps there will be opportunities for increased funds directed by government and social protection agencies to provide disabled people with special vehicles. As for the monuments, I would like to report that in the program of action to commemorate the 60th anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War, there are separate elements that provide for the order and restoration of all monuments that relate to the events of the Great Homeland War, the organization of military cemeteries, the involvement of military personnel and the public, as well as programs that provide the necessary information support for this sacred cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u25	Yes. Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u26	Written question: The level of payment of one-on-one cash assistance, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, is determined each year by the State Budget Act. At the same time, for natural reasons, the number of applicants for these payments is declining. Would it not be appropriate, in such a case, to create a fund with a flexible payout system that would increase payments to a particular person according to the decrease in the number of veterans? The annual payment of cash, one - time financial assistance, is indeed determined annually by the National Budget Act for the year in question. Understandably, there is a natural decline in veterans during the year. But we can't set a forecast for this decrease for many reasons. That's why we can go to the rest of the funds that will be spent at the end of the year and work with this remainder of the funds also being used by the government in interacting with Parliament exclusively for the needs of war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u27	Alexander Pelusenko, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u28	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozska oblast. I have four short questions. First. Do you think there may have been a long-standing need to cancel the annual confirmation of disability for the disabled of the Great Homeland War? It's a practice that's found in herbivores. The second question is very important. 50 bracelets is a funny number. I think we should, and I'm sure the Supreme Council will support you, increase that amount by five times. The third question is very important. Teeth prosthetics. We need to make money on this social issue. And one more thing. Veterans' holidays. Veterans today are mainly in rural areas. Are there funds available for the celebrations in the district centres, in the village councils?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I deliberately did not report the entire program of action to mark the 60th anniversary of Victory, but there is a celebration not only in the center of Ukraine's capital city in Midan or in Krestatika, but also in the district centers and even in the village, because it is a matter of national importance. And in order for no one to have doubts about the need for this and to adopt a government plan of action that will be severely controlled by the government. About 50 bucks. Of course, it is a sum that does not withstand any criticism. At the same time, we've provided an up payment of 400 dollars to war invalids of the 1st group, 370 dollars to war invalids of the 2nd group, and it's still going down on the scale. Here are 50 dollars for the war, not just for the participants of the fighting, but for the first time this year. Therefore, there are, of course, proposals for an increase in the debate on the consideration of changes to the 2005 Budget Act. We've been looking at the proposal for this increase, and it's worth 124 million dollars, but not a five-fold increase, but a two-fold increase, even if it's up to a hundred dollars to all the participants in the war. So these are the extra costs. With regard to dental prosthetics, war invalids have the right to free dental flossing, as well as some other medical services that are listed. I think the Minister of Health will be more specific in this regard. But I'm going to report that there are separate lines in the 60th anniversary agenda that provide for testing, diagnosis and special work, which also applies to the denture of persons with disabilities and war participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u30	Letters, Viacheslav Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u31	Letters. Whether the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine gathers in the 60th year of the Great Victory over Fascism and the Year, announced by the year of veterans, to return the savings that have been stolen from the people to the disabled and to the participants in the fighting of the Great War, which is 80 years and over. The Company's deputy faction. What are the government’s plans to pay off the State’s commitments to the lost financial savings of war veterans and, in particular, wartime participants and war invalids? Questions from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons They're related, so I'm going to answer two at once. The State budget for this year provides 500 million dollars to compensate for lost savings. At the same time, this figure does not completely solve the problem, but it only shows the State’s attention to what it is, it remains, it is not solved. So, on the other hand, the State Budget Act for this year also provides six billion dollars of mutual funds to enable war veterans, war invalids and, in general, older people to account for debts for residential services, electricity, water supply, heating and so on. At the same time, it seems to me that apart from these two articles, which provide for a partial solution to this issue, we can also consider some other mechanisms, including the experience of a temporary special commission to consider the return of the lost savings created three years ago in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u32	Basil Nadrag, People's Party. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u33	Please tell me. I think you will agree with me that 60 years of victory is not only a holiday for veterans, but also such a significant event in the military-patriot education of young people. I wouldn't want us to bring the problem of the parade today just to the point that we don't have to, the party isn't the party that offers it. But I am interested in the question of the next order. We're talking about money here and we're talking about it. But I'm more interested in the moral aspect of this holiday today. Please, if you please, give me more details. So, what will be the key activities here, at the heart of the entire state, that we say "thank you" to veterans? Second moment. How and how will the State, society: through television, through radio, show their favorite broadcasts, about them, their favorite movies, tell us about the feat, instead of showing us from day to day one of the Terminator's and such fighters, who do anything but engage in the patriotic education of young people? That's why I have a big request for you: a little more detail. So, the main events at the center.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. About that. I'll start with the second when the lighting is done. Specially designed mechanisms, which are reflected in the government's plan of action on lighting, are planned and will be held separately at the All-Ukrainian Journalism Festival "People and Arms" in Kiev, which is responsible for the Statecomteleradio and the Ministry of Defence, on 24 and 26 March of the date; the International Television "Best Together" in Sevastopol; the participation of the creative teams of the Armed Forces in Moscow's international military song festival "Vyat, Victory!" on the occasion of the Victory and a few more steps that will provide information, information support, and special information. As for the scenario plan that will take place on December 9th. On May 9, this question is being clarified, but in general it is known that it will be in the morning -- the admission of veterans to the Marian Palace, then there will be a large stake in the Crusades for participation. A major campaign is planned in the Christian community with the participation of war veterans from all over Ukraine, which will demonstrate the attitude of power toward war veterans, especially those who deserve respect. Therefore, there will be no traditional rostrums on which the President of Ukraine will stand and which will be honored by the veterans, because we believe that the authorities should honor the veterans. So throughout the whole of the Christian world, large brotherly tables will be set for war veterans, all Ukrainian citizens, the President of Ukraine, all members of the government, all national deputies, and on a general basis, to pay tribute to these people who have ensured our country's freedom and independence. Then there will be great celebrations in the Christian Church, where the President will be next, and not the veteran will pay tribute to the President and thank him for giving him the opportunity to go through the Christian once a year. So the concept is to get the face back to the veteran, and so this face of power is also going to be in increasing aid. By May 9, they're all going to be protégés, dental prosthetics, a package of drugs distributed, tonometers and so on -- a whole list of specific programs for which veterans, the government is confident, will say "thank you."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u35	Yes, please, a written question. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u36	What measures are envisaged by the government and their deadlines for increasing the payment of annual lump sums to the people with disabilities of the I-II-III Group? Questions from the Social Policy Committee. The answer, I've already reported, is that more people with disabilities than those with disabilities of war, participants in combat and participants in war are more than twice as big as last year's annual one-time aid to Victory Day. The size of this aid this year -- once again, to the disabled of war -- 1 group is 400 dollars, 2 groups with disabilities are 330 dollars, 3 groups with disabilities are 270 dollars. [[Last year - 195 bucks, for comparison.]] [[Last year - 160]] [[Last year - 130]] I would like to stress that for the first time, this aid will be paid to all the participants in the war, which is almost 2 million, 600,000 of our fellow countrymen, 50 dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u37	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u38	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, I welcome you with my first report to Parliament. And I have a few questions about your information. Please tell me whether there will be a clear queue for obtaining disabled cars and whether there will be no disgraceful practice when the leaders of the state or before the elections, or before any events, hand over the keys to the chosen ones, will we speak to the participants or veterans of the war or work? I mean, to keep getting cars in line. And the second. As you're counting, if the position on the Chernobyl disaster exterminations is working for everyone, then. Two people worked together. One has a licence and the other has a licence. Is this a normal phenomenon?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. With regard to special transport, unfortunately, so far we can't provide all the disabled who need it for a year, 154 thousand need it, 45 last year, and only 45,000 people with disabilities are accounted for, this year our capabilities, which are additionally sophisticated, allow us to provide only with net costs of about 12.5 thousand persons with disabilities. If we're going to do a real-car scheme because of the mutual benefit program, it's another 110 million, so this figure might not go up by 100 percent, so I think it's going to go up by 70 percent. This turnaround is set for the supply of the disabled themselves, the disabled organizations in social protection institutions, and the social protection fund for the disabled, which is used to finance the acquisition of special vehicles. Redness is defined by social protection institutions and is transparent. Thus, most people are generally unable to obtain this machine during the year. But there is practice. When, for example, by May 9, some categories of disabled people get these cars out of line. Other categories are indignant. So in any case, it's more of a moral issue. But I believe that since we have 60 years of Victory, since we have a year of veterans, we should allow those who have put their health in the protection of our country to receive these cars first during World War II. Thank you. It's a written question. What concrete measures and actions have been taken by the government to address the issue of the provision of aid to disabled persons? I'll probably miss that, because I've answered that almost twice. The next letter. How does the financial support of veteran organizations to carry out their statutory activities come about? The answer is that some 2.5 million dollars are foreseen for direct support this year to ensure the statutory activity of veteran public organizations. I told them what public organizations they were. The largest number of these funds is received by the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, and these funds are also received by the Ukrainian veterans ’ organization and the U.S. Veterans’ Union, as well as by a number of other organizations. To be exact, it's seven public organizations and the budget funding is exactly 2 million 469,000 dollars. In particular, the Ministry is interested in ensuring that all associations of veterans have access to the State’s public resources in the form of a budget, but the distribution of these resources takes place in a transparent, public and participatory manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u40	Sergey Golovaty, Faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u41	Please give us the word Lukyanenko Levko Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u42	Leukko Lukyanenko, Faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u43	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. I'd like to ask you this: during the Second World War and after 56 years of independence, the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, these people, according to different estimates, were up to 300,000 soldiers, their families suffered because the Stalinese oppressive, occupying regime, took their families north and frozen there in the snow. How do you think our society feels that it lacks regard for those who fought for an independent Ukraine and today these old people receive 85 bracelets of pension? And when you talk about helping veterans, do you mean helping them, these people? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u44	In my information, I have noted that it is historically fair for all veterans who have competed for freedom and independence of our country to have social equality and equal social status. This means that all the veterans who fought for freedom and independence should have the same benefits, the same compensation, and the calculation is only differentiated, whether they are disabled or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u45	Yes. Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u46	Dear Minister, Bandurka, "The One Ukraine" faction. What will be the solution to the question of organizing the graves of mass graves and soldiers of the Soviet army, and the peaceful inhabitants who are scattered in the villages today, in deaf places, and on what paths have they grown? Is this part of the government’s program to organize them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Markovich, I have answered a similar question. It is predicted that these are several separate points for the organization of military burials and monuments associated with the Great Homeland War and events that took place during the Great Homeland War. In addition, we will give special orders to the local authorities, as well as to offer local self-government to carry out the government's plan of action by the 60th anniversary of Victory to take all necessary measures, including the financial nature to organize the graves and monuments associated with the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u48	Please write to Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u49	Is the government planning to introduce appropriate additional aids to improve social health care for war veterans this year? What measures are being taken by the government to improve the legal and regulatory framework in this area? I want to say that this year the amount of aid has been increased, this is a huge list of benefits, which is provided by the Law on the Social Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection to veterans. These are basically the costs that, in the form of subsidies, go from the State budget to the local budgets. The budget for this year is 4 billion 155 million dollars, which are mainly allocated to subsidies for housing services, subsidies related to the right to travel, and subsidies related to the acquisition of solid and liquid fuel. By the way, in some areas it seems cash, but it's not everyone's. In addition, government support has made changes to the above-mentioned law in the amount of aid granted to people with disabilities in the 3rd group, as well as compensation to the disabled for unutilized sanatorium treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u50	Vojsz, please, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Minister. Deputy Vojs, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I have two questions. Why is the indexation of the pension not in line with the consumer price inflation index? This is provided for by the Law on the Indices of Citizens'Income. And the second. Why one per cent is not paid for each year of service to the minimum pension in accordance with the General Government Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. The government assures Parliament that all valid legal and regulatory frameworks relating to pension insurance will be implemented. The only thing we would ask for is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it will obviously be the subject of special sessions, a meeting and a debate in Parliament, so that this law that predicted an increase in pensions, a percentage of overtime and many other absolutely useful things would be provided with financial support from the budget. Because we passed the law, and we didn't provide the budget for it at all. Therefore, the government has practically developed and next week is ready to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Law on Amendments to the State Budget Act 2005 which solves funding problems, as well as separate grants from the State Budget to the Pension Fund for minimum pension payments, not less than the subsistence minimum for the beginning of the differentiation of pensions, to the most vulnerable categories of pensioners that I have talked about today, as well as additional pension insurance for over the normal period. That is, with the support of Parliament, this programme will become possible very quickly until real realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u53	Vyachelav Anatolyevich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Michael Efremovich Polishchuk, Minister of Health, is invited to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u54	Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The issue of health care for war veterans is an extremely pressing problem and one of the priorities of Ukraine’s authorities and health institutions. The current nature of the problem is due to the overall demographic processes and health characteristics of individual age groups. Ukraine refers to countries with high levels of ageing. In 2004, there were 11.4 million people in Ukraine who were older than the working age, 23.6 percent, when in 2000 it was just 21 percent of the total population. Among the elderly, 1 in 3 is a war veteran. One of the most important health features of war veterans is the high level of disease and physical impairment. One out of five people in their 60 ’ s live alone, and 1 out of every five of them cannot handle himself — that is, needing full social and medical support. Five to six percent of Ukrainian pensioners are bedridden people, five percent of the elderly in Ukraine do not receive the necessary social support from relatives or from the state. Comprehensive medical examinations and preventive rehabilitation require 42 percent of the urban population, 45 percent of the rural population, 76 percent of the elderly require dental prosthetics, and 81 percent regularly take medication. Hospitalizations require 4 percent of the elderly in cities and 9.5 in villages, 1 out of every 10 elderly people calls for an ambulance 3-5 times a year, 1 out of every 5 people 80 years of age, and 1 out of every 10 people needs specialized psychiatric care. A third of those who cannot serve themselves receive no help. According to statistics, every elderly person has 4-5 chronic diseases, half of them need at least 2 rehabilitations a year. It should be noted that among the nations of the world, Ukraine has 108 seats in life expectancy, falling behind Western European countries. To date, life expectancy in Ukraine is 68 years, for men 62 years, for women 73 years. With a view to studying the situation regarding the health care of war veterans, meeting the requirements laid down in the Ukrainian legislation on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection and presidential decrees, the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, and the National Integrated Programme on the Social and Medical Welfare of War Veterans for the period to 2005, and the plan of action to mark the 60th anniversary of the Victory and the Memorial of the Great War of 1941 - 1945, the activities of specialized medical facilities that provide medical care to war veterans have been continuously analysed by the MoZ of Ukraine. In Ukraine, there were three million 35,000 664 war veterans in the first January 2005 medical-prevention facility, including 235 000 851 war veterans, 326 000 431 wartime participants - 2 million 527 000 323, people who are likened to benefits - 262 000 982. The largest number of war veterans lives in the Donetsk region, Dnipropetrovsk, Kharkiv, the smallest in Zakarpatsk, Chernivetsk, Ivano-Frankivsk. In Ukraine, there are 30 hospitals for seven thousand 207 beds and 28 hospital rooms for a thousand 614 beds. The total number of beds is eight thousand 821. Every treatment facility has rooms for participants and veterans of the Great Homeland War. Bed security is 26.3 by 10,000 war veterans. In the last three years, hospitals in the Chernigiv region have been opened for 100 beds, Zaporziski for 110 beds, Zakarpatski for 60 beds, and the number of beds in the Kiev hospital departments has increased from 190 to 290. Advanced treatment room for 30 beds, neurologic for 70. The National Budget is funded by the Ukrainian National Medical and Social Centre in Cibly and by the Ukrainian Internationalist Hospital "Liss Plain". District hospitals are financed from local budgets. The cost of maintaining hospitals in Ukraine in 2004 amounted to more than 116 million, whereas in 2003 it was only 90.5 million. The worst was funded by the Lviv District Hospital - 82 percent. In 2004, in hospitals in Ukraine, the cost of drugs was 17 million, 814 thousand dollars, when the cost of food was over 16 million, 670,000 dollars. These expenses were planned in accordance with the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers on the monetary standards of food expenses, medicines, and medicine. Inventory in hospitals, wards, war rooms with only one bed-and-food day, 7 bracelets, 8 bracelets for drugs. This is more than twice as much as normal hospitals for the sick. In Ukraine, the cost of one bed - to - day medicine was 7.6, and for food it was 6.9. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decided to increase the standards of money spent on war veterans in treatment and prevention facilities. Yes, money spending since 1st January 2005 for one bed and a day for eating is 14 dollars. I want to be compared to 3-4 bracelets in hospitals. For drugs, it's 16 bucks when there's 3-4 bracelets in the hospital. In the treatment and prevention facilities, that is, in the establishments that serve war veterans. There are no regular expenses and no disruptions at the Ukrainian National Medical and Social Centre for War Veterans. In 2004, 766 000 960 veterans of war in hospitals and hospitals for war veterans, as well as medical and preventive establishments of the general network, made up of 22.7 of the total number of war veterans. There are 131 thousand 211 war veterans in hospitals, and 81,000 129 sanatoriums are cured. An important problem is the provision of dental dentures for war veterans. In 13 out of 30 hospitals, services are provided to treat war veterans in hospitals. By the way, the equipment there is quite modern. This was spent over 951,000 dollars last year. Sluggling in Ukraine remains an acute problem. In 2004, 10,000,485 war veterans were provided. Artificial rhythmists are implanted by war veterans 529. Gendoprostitis was carried out by 818 war veterans. I would like to say that in 2004, the state and local budgets purchased medical equipment for the hospital totalling 3 million 797 thousand 226 dollars. I would also like to say that annual allocations are free of charge to cover the needs of citizens. Getting medical supplies is about 2.2 billion dollars. The need for payment of benefits and free recipes according to the Ministry of Health is estimated at about 3 billion dollars. The regions have developed and agreed with local self-government measures to improve health care for veterans, such as strengthening the material and technical health facilities that provide medical care to veterans with the definition of sources of funding. In view of what has been said, attention should be paid to increasing attention to those involved in the fighting, to those participating in the Great National War, and, above all, to those involved in the fighting. This is foreshadowed by appropriate measures and funding for war veterans, including those involved in hostilities, both locally and in the State budget. Medical assistance in the form of control examinations will be available to each person. The medical network and the number of medical personnel are sufficient to do so in order to ensure adequate medical examination and
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u55	Allow the Minister to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u56	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u57	Are you all right? Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u59	Mikola Efremovich, then we go to questions. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, the "Our Ukraine" faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u60	It's okay, isn't it? Vladimir Yavorowski. Our Ukraine faction, Yavorov, Zovva. Dear Mr. Mikolo, we've been handing out a tract here today about one of the heroes who picked up the first one, I emphasize, raising a flag on Reichstag, this is the Ukrainian Berest. He was later deleted from that list and there was a Cantaria, you know, Jehorov and all that. But now the historians have completely restored that the first, in fact, was the only one to raise the flag on the Reichstag. Yeah, there's this proposal, the deal's already been made with the President, after all, to give him the title of hero posthumously. This is going to go back to, let's say, World War II and to the Ukrainian side. How do you feel about the offer to have his body, and he died in Rostov, saving the girl from under the tram, right after the war, to move his body to Ukraine? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u61	Well, my opinion, in general, the magnificent Vladimir Alexanderovich, in general, the pages of the history of World War II are extremely complex and I think today is such a time that we really, really need to know the truth of the people. Who did what? And I fully support it, and I think today is such a time that there must be truth and another page in the Great Homeland War that can be spoken of as World War II.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u62	Yes. Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u63	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u64	No letters? Then we go directly to questions from the national MPs. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u65	Dear Mikola Efraemovich. Hinzburg, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I have a question for you. You know, our veterans, they've lived for a long time, lived in the years of Soviet power, and they know a different attitude towards themselves, they know that there was a warm and respectable attitude in these years towards them. Now they have to get used to the attitude that took place in the years of independence. Would you please tell me whether the health of the veterans should be affected by our respectable attitude on the part of all ministries and all local authorities toward our veterans? I want to pay attention, you just said that the rooms where our veterans are in the treatment facilities are suitable. But you know what they're like. And can you not say that the complete treatment of veterans is free of charge to be controlled by your ministry? Please tell me, do you agree with me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u66	Thank you. I would like to say, Your Honor, Comrade Olga, I would like to say that today everyone knows about the critical state of medical care and treatment. And unfortunately, it's not just about war veterans, it's about even the acute diseases that people get into the hospital. And for today, there's the attention of the state to war veterans, to war participants, and it's expressed in what I said, food in hospitals in regular 8-9 bracelets, that's like eating like in TB hospitals, and in sanatoriums that are, that's in Cycles and the fox song, that's 14 bracelets. At a time when food in a health care facility is usually no more than 3 bracelets. And also for treatment, 16 bracelets and 3-4 bracelets. This is why, for today, one way to isolate ourselves in the health care establishments of veterans is to predict this in a set of measures that are in the local budgets that war veterans must be provided with drugs and drugs, and much of these drugs are being carried out free of charge. Sadly, though, this will increase dissatisfaction. Why? Because the number of diseases is increasing as people get older. And it's known that at that age it's practically impossible to cure, it's only possible to do this kind of rehabilitation. And in my opinion, next to hospitals that provide treatment, we have to open institutions for medical and social rehabilitation, where they can get permanent medical and social rehabilitation so they don't have to be dependent on the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u67	Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u68	Nikolai Efremovich, you really are a professional. I would also like to hear your opinion on how to increase the vitality of our veterans, the participants in the Great Homeland War, and how to transport them by road. Please tell me, the Ministry of Health supports the idea of giving everyone who has the right to a personal car to the disabled of the Great Homeland War, or have you just decided to wait a little longer? That's a question for you. And, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I handed you a note on the request of the Presidents of the Veterans' Councils. We have 27 representatives of the areas here, and they have been invited to our parliamentary hearings to participate. I would like to ask you once again to find the opportunity to give the floor to at least one of the twenty.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u69	Mr. Vasile Potapov. I want to say that the Ministry of Health will support the position defined by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding veterans, which is now defined by the State together, namely, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. Along with the doctor, I would like to say that, given the situation that is today with war veterans, it might be more appropriate to develop programs to ensure that war veterans, including disabled people, are delivered to medical institutions, and to allocate funds directly for this in the near future. Why? Because so many war veterans, war invalids at that age cannot control transport for health reasons. And I think that program would be more comprehensive than just car security. But all those decisions and all those decisions that have already been made today regarding the provision of individual transport, in my opinion, should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u70	Basil Calinchuk, People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Mikola Efremovich, I support your thesis that the medical care of veterans should be a priority in the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But I think that the bases for this are not enough -- the 30 hospitals, the 28 hospitals and the hospital facilities -- are very few, especially in rural areas, to get to a hospital facility, it takes 30-40 kilometers to go, and you have nothing to go for. And to get a hearing aid, you have to go all the way to the district center. So tell me, what can be done for rural veterans to be served really at their place of residence? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Kalinchuk. I would like to say that the base is today to provide adequate assistance to war veterans and labor veterans, too, including: to date, you know, that a large number of semi-arid medical facilities. They work either with no workload or they work as social workers. In this regard, I believe that, to date, local self-government authorities can make medical rehabilitation institutions in these institutions. It's a medical-social rehabilitation for veterans, including war veterans. This will help because if we don't need new medical facilities, we're going to be able to reach a much larger number of people with medical and social rehabilitation. In this connection, it can be said that today, extra beds for war veterans have been opened there, they have just been opened on the basis of medical facilities, they simply have the name of a hospital. And that, I think, would be more appropriate to make a medical-social rehabilitation facility for war veterans. And with regard to the participants in the fighting, which we have over 360,000, we want to say that the actions that the government is going through, they will all be, each individual, treated separately by the medics, will be tested, and each individual will be provided with assistance in accordance with his medical evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u73	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u74	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Mikola Efremovich, I'd like you to consider one thing. Last year in Ivano-Frankivsk, a hospital for veterans and participants in the Great Homeland War was handed over to an art gallery, and veterans should be treated either in Chernivsky or in Lviv. That's the first question. Otherwise, whether it will be reviewed and returned, the bases of rest, the veteran sanatoriums, the rehabilitation centers that were in their time taken away by the State Department of President Kuchma to veterans, sold out, stolen or transferred to private property. It's very important that we, the veterans, feel whether they will receive the benefits they had to be able to heal so that they can heal the wounds left over from the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy Mikhailo Melniczuk. I mean, it's a very good question. We are working to explain the reasons why this hospital was transferred and to whom. And I think justice will be established. At the same time, I would like to say that, really today, veterans need to heal not so many wounds, but to heal those pains that appear in this background when there were injuries, and not just injuries, but mental stress, all of them. In the region of Chernobyl itself, there were 22 000,805 war veterans, in Ivano-Frankivsky there are 70 thousand 122. I was in the Ivano-Frankow district, in the medical facilities there's a pretty large reserve to open up an additional medical-social rehabilitation facility for veterans. I think that's the same thing in the Chernobyl area, and that's what we're going to be working on. And now we've got a series of actions to provide direct and urgent service to the participants in the fighting, and taking these areas into account, the participants in the fighting of all those who took part in World War II.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u76	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u77	Please give the word of Levk Grigorovitch Lukyanek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u78	Please turn on the microphone Levek Grigorovitch Lukjanenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Mikola Efremovich, I'd like to ask you this. Because our Supreme Council does not know the history of the struggle for independence, especially it does not know the history of the Ukrainian rebel army, it votes against the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. The Institute for the History of the Academy of Sciences has already prepared a very good survey on this subject. And I think in time the Supreme Council will read that historical aid and change its mind. But what do you think now, wouldn't the government have been able to help the fighters for the will of Ukraine, the disabled, the fighters who fought against the Germans, fight against the other invaders? They're old people now without any help. They've got a pension of 85 bucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u80	Thank you, Reverend Mikola Grigorovitch. I want to say that the government has considered the issue, and the government considers it an obligation to provide adequate medical assistance to the participants of the fighting in World War II, and I think that, especially from the Ministry of Health, we have directed such a call to areas where there are people who have participated in different, we will speak, groups that have fought against fascism, so that these people are not overlooked. And I assure you that medical personnel are involved in combat, regardless of which side of the war they're on. they will be provided with adequate medical care. And the rest of me want to say that I think that Ukraine has now turned over a new page in its history, and I think this question is going to be and will be reviewed at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u81	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u82	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Mikola Efraemovich, the first question I'd like to ask you is that I respect you very much as a person. Why don't you put in your mandate as deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Today you are paid both as a minister and as a member of the Supreme Council. At that time, we're talking about veterans who don't index the pension of this 5 or 7 bracelets. We're talking about that there's no payment of 1 percent for retirement work, that's all a penny. I think it would be better if you followed the 78 articles of the Constitution. Now for the questions. All the tenders for the purchase of drugs have been cancelled. Experts believe that this situation will lead to the failure of patients to receive free medication on time. How will the ministry deal with this problem, and how can the challenge to World War II veterans be solved for the home of narrow specialists?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u83	Dear Igor Mikhailovich! I know financial discipline and I get paid in one place. The second question. It's about tenders. Yes, the press has spoken and, indeed, in a number of cases there have been some disruptions in the conduct of solicitation drugs. Today, a new bill on the conduct of tender purchases is being developed in Kabmin and a new bill will be submitted in the coming days, and tender purchases will be conducted in accordance with this bill to make it transparent so that they know about it publicly. Igor Mikhailovich, I am answering your question, and you are not paying attention. This time. And I want to say that the Ministry is working today to ensure that there is no shortage of drugs. In fact, last year a number of medical facilities were placed in a medical facility at the end of the year. Today we have a study of where there are surpluses, where there are shortages, and we will make an appropriate correction. So in this way, as long as we go through the new tender purchases, I think we're dealing with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u84	Jaroslav Suhi, group "Democratic Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, Democratic Ukraine. Deeply revered Mikolo Efraemovich! I have three questions. First of all, a colleague of the national MP. Please tell me your attitude toward the idea of restoring savings to citizens, veterans of the Great Homeland War, frontalists, first and second group disabled. There aren't so many of them left, we'll be in debt forever if we don't. That's the first question, savings. Second question to the minister. What is the Ministry’s intention for pharmacies to work to ensure that veterans are provided with drugs at a premium price? You know, as a result of privatization, a lot of pride just doesn't do the functions that we've rewrote to them by law. And the third question. Endoprostitising. You said that many veterans of war, disabled people are in line, waiting for an endoprostosis. Your attitude towards the initiative of the local manufacturer VAT "Motor Sich" and the group of doctors at Dnipropetrovska and Zaporozhye, who produce these endoprosthetics, is cheaper than export
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Mr. Jaroslav, I want to say with respect to savings, I also have a positive decision. But for this to happen, there have to be some mechanisms and, I think, this is the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics, along with the Supreme Council, they're going to be developing and they're going to be making decisions. Regarding pharmacies and pharmaceuticals, drugs, and drugs. We broadcast, we know that today the network of utility pharmacies and private pharmacies have generally not provided, in this regard, we are looking into the issue of the existence of utility pharmacies, including the large and the availability of private pharmacies in health care facilities, in hospitals where there are 2-3 pharmacies. And we're also going to be looking at this issue for the possibility of opening utility pharmacies there, as well as economic mechanisms. Regarding endoprosthetics, I want to say that, and in general with regard to the domestic manufacturer, we are now answering the previous question, reviewing a number of tenders, canceling the purchase of imported equipment and ordering rain gear, ordering quality equipment for the domestic manufacturer. So we're going to have a couple thousand jobs. As for the data that's on endoprostetic and that's coming today, we're going to study in detail how much, we're going to say this should be quality and safe for the patient. Because one is a 60 - year - old and the other is 80 - year - old. And these questions, we're going to do and we're going to study them in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u87	Paul Kachure. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u88	Paul Kachure. The faction of our Ukraine. 117 railway constituency, Lviv. Dear Mikola Efremovich, in this static information that you provided, very much has been called the figures. Obviously, what great work is being done by the government for the social protection of persons with disabilities, for the social protection of those involved in the war, for the Great War. One of the questions that I wanted to ask is the question about the participants in the fighting that fought for Ukraine's independence and who today remain in the positions of self-registration in their own state, for whose independence they fought. I got your answer. So I would like to focus on the following questions. First. Take a look at the dynamics of the number of participants in the Great National War. It's kind of growing away from this period. Don't you think that the priority in social security and the attention of the state should be primarily those people?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u89	I understand you, Paul Stepanovich, I understand. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but that's what he called it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that 17 years as an expert in forensics, I can point out that the number of participants in combat declines every year, the number of people with disabilities in the Great War is increasing every year. This is in line with the laws adopted by the Supreme Council. And there's a lot of nuances here, but I'd like to emphasize the main thing. Today, considering that all war veterans wherever he is, whether he's been in combat, whether he's been in the rear, or whether he's been working in the farm, securing the war, he's entitled to attention and has the right to medical care. But I would like to say separately that the government foresees direct attention by May of the month and a great deal of attention to the participants of the fighting actions of all armies wherever they participated. Because they understood each one of them and each of them chose Ukraine’s independence from fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u90	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u91	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Nikolai Efremović, we have a law in the country that defines the composition of the organizational committee for the celebration, the preparation of it, the establishment of a plan of action. The rapporteur, Comrade Kirilenko, you, yes, Minister Kirilenko, are members of this committee. I'm also a member of the Orgcomite. And this is what we were told here about the observance of May 9th I didn't see or know when it was determined when it was discussed, when it was decided and by whom. I would like to know your attitude towards the preparation of such a celebration on May 9th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u92	Dear National Deputy Valentin Anastasiaev. Valentin Alexiyovich, I'm sorry. Valentina Alexiyovich, I'd like to say that I'm very critical of all parades and all of these. I support the fact that the 60-year victory celebration of Ukraine can be spoken differently in the Great Homeland War, in World War II, otherwise we won't, yes. It is a celebration of every man and man who has participated in the war and of those who have not participated directly. I don't think anyone can say it's a holiday for us. In my opinion, my father was directly involved in the war, and he was a war invalid, and he died prematurely because of it. A war invalid returned from the front, not in peacetime. And so did many of his brothers. This is the great festival of the people. And I think that the decision to celebrate this whole nation, and to be absolutely holy to everyone, I think it's a sign and it's worth welcoming, because it's not going to be a single group of people who are going to be invited either to the rostrum or something. And I think so. That scenario that's being developed today, it's a folk script. And I personally support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u93	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u94	Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozska oblast. Dear Nikolai Efremović, the youngest participant in the fighting for 78 years. And at that age, people don't get stronger. However, we are forcing the disabled of war to travel regularly to a re-medical survey from the depths. Why is that? That's the first question. And the second question is, could it be that these people are already leveling up all those involved in the fighting with persons with disabilities of the Second War? They have earned this by their hard victory, by their hard life after the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u95	Thank you. I think you're absolutely right about that. And what do we want to do now in our medical care? We predict not to challenge them, we predict that the medics will address everyone personally, especially those involved in the fighting and, of course, the participants in the Great War of Homeland. And I think, given the age of these people, it's probably going to be such a time that social security is going to be better. But unfortunately, you know what financial opportunities are today. But given how much it's going to be for this group of people, if you take it in comparison to a normal treatment facility, it's still over the last few years, I would say that the authorities are still paying attention to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u96	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u97	Dear Nikolai Efremovich! The veterans of the Great Homeland War are older, very elderly. Clearly, then, the problem of treatment and health is a matter of priority. Tell me, please, you won't surprise anyone today with a drug worth more than 10 bracelets, there's a cure worth 50, 10 and more bracelets today. Please tell me that today, the Cabinet of Ministers is making some arrangements for this very category of veterans of the Great Fatherland War to have the opportunity to buy drugs on the wrong foot, I beg your forgiveness, the craziness of prices, that is, what economic mechanisms can be launched and what the Cabinet of Ministers has done here, and what it is going to do to enable them to buy at a more cost-effective drug, regardless of the form of ownership of the pharmacy, because the private, you said absolutely correctly, puts what he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u98	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Thank you for asking. I would like to say that you are probably witnessing that the government is taking some steps to ensure that quality medicines are available to the people of Ukraine. And it's not just about control, it's about some pricing measures, and the conferences and meetings that we've had with the pharmaceutical industry directly in Ukraine. And there are many questions. There are also questions that need to be identified and a list of medications that should be necessary for emergency care and a list of medications that should be available to participants for older people. In this regard, the government is taking action, and I think we're going to have a drug program in the cabinet shortly. the supply of medicines, generally quality medicines for all people, not just veterans and participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u99	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich, time is up. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, now speaking from the committee of our own in the matter of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. The word has the head of the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich. Prepare for the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u100	Honorable members of the meeting, venerable veterans! There is no need to say how urgent and acute the question raised at today’s meeting of the Supreme Council is. In initiating the Government Day, the committee was guided by one-one: the need to draw the attention of central and local authorities, public authorities, especially veteran organizations, political parties, heads of institutions and organizations of all forms of property to the problems of war veterans, the preparation for the 60th century and the perpetuation of victory in the Great Nativity War. This is a question that many factors have raised. First of all, the dissatisfaction of war veterans with the current level of their pension and social protection, secondly, with the characteristics of this year's 60th anniversary of the triumphant end of World War II and its decisive component - the Great Homeland War; and thirdly, with the recognition of the great merits of veterans in protecting their homeland, rebuilding the national economy, developing the economy, science and culture of today's year is announced by the year of Ukrainian veterans. All of this together requires all the authorities, all of us to take immediate steps to implement the current legislation, the President's and the Ukrainian government's decisions to improve the pension and socio-medical provision of war veterans. I want to report that more than 300 proposals from veterans and veteran organizations have been made to the committee in preparation for Government Day, for which we are grateful. With a view to improving the legislative base, the Committee has initiated a series of changes to Ukraine's laws on the status of war veterans and guaranteeing their social protection, on pensions for special merit before Ukraine, in particular on the status of war invalids who have become disabled as a result of the general illness, simplified procedures for payment to war veterans of one-time money assistance on Victory Day, the receipt of money compensation for unused travel for sanatorium and smoking treatment, increased monthly payments to war invalids and participants in hostilities, pensions for special benefits to Ukraine, which now receive more than one million veterans. During the war with Japan, the status and extent of the benefits are compared to those involved in the battles of the Great War. The status and extent of the benefits of those who lost their childhood in war and the first difficult postwar years have been determined. According to Ukrainian laws: the status of veterans of war and the guarantees of their social protection, the perpetuation of victory in the Great War of 1941-1945, and the preparation for the 60th anniversary of the Victory have been developed and further steps have been taken to address the issues of the vitality of war veterans. What has improved is the coverage of war - related events. At the same time, the atmosphere of genuine concern for veterans, the atmosphere of respect for them, is far from everywhere. Today, many of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation on the social security of war veterans, are far from being fully implemented. I have to say that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the individual organs of central and local government, by their legal acts, by introducing all kinds of coefficients, often narrow down the amount of benefits and guarantees given to war veterans, in fact adhere to the rule of their decisions, rather than to the Constitution and laws, as it should be in a normal civilised state. I'm not talking about individual officials in places that act like gifted princes. Under these circumstances, pensions and social security are effectively removed from the legal field and transferred to manual administration. We ask the President and the government of the country to put an end to this, to put these issues back in the legal and transparent field, to ensure the rule of the Constitution and the laws. As it is known, the status and scope of the veteran’s aid is determined by the law on the status of war veterans, the guarantees of their social protection, but even today the anniversary of the Great Victory and the Year of Veterans in Ukraine does not bring a number of benefits. We'll take the benefits of free medical treatment, medical supplies. It is so discredited that it is not only necessary to pay for medicine, but in some hospitals and hospitals it is necessary to go with their spoon, cup, towel, and so forth. She still needs a bribe. In pharmacies that are supposed to sell discount drugs, these discounts are ridiculous, and the price of drugs is increasing. The problem of sanatorium treatment and the healing of veterans and disabled people remains acute. The level of security here is only 15 percent of the need, and in some areas it's even less than 10-12. Unused travel is paid for only 100 dollars, or not always, even though the average travel cost is 1200 - 1,500 dollars. The same is true of the law that was due to work on January 1, 2005. The right of veterans to travel free of charge by public transport is violated, the provision of tax duty in taxis is limited by various instructions. Or we can take advantage of the right to use the phone. In their appeals, veterans resent the introduction of a value added tax, a shift to an instantaneous and instantaneous payment for communications services. This made it impossible for them to call a pharmacy to find cheaper drugs or just to communicate with people they knew that it was important for people of that age. In some populated areas, even the last, already postmortem, benefits of free burial of veterans of the Great Homeland War are virtually virtually eliminated. In his address to the Supreme Council, the veteran of the War of Olkhovsky of Valka Kharkishtina writes: "The benefits provided for veterans are almost out of law; all transportation and for all paid, compensation for unused travel practically does not exist; pensions are meager. Please, look at the situation of the frontists, there are very few left, and they die every day." The issue of social protection for veterans is the issue of pension insurance. Today, most war veterans receive a pension of 290-315 dollars. This is even less than the beggarly subsistence minimum. As an insult to their dignity, veterans accepted the ridicule of merit by returning to a retirement pension. This is the result of a shameful, criminal failure not only of the basic pension law but also of the Constitution. War invalid Kondratjuk of Kiev writes: "For fighting merit and 55 years of work in manufacturing, the state has rewarded me with a pension of 284 bracelets -- at the level of a mere bogey. Let government officials and deputies tell us how you can live on such money with constant price increases for everything. I'm going to have to collect bottles for a living. That's how I meet the big event -- the 60th anniversary of Victory." The issue of eliminating violent discrimination in the pension security of military personnel has become extremely acute. The law adopted by the Supreme Council on correcting the situation is not being implemented. The standard of living of many veterans has deteriorated, the sharp rise in prices for bread, dairy and other goods and services, and the prices of tsunamis have steadily risen by 2.5 times over the last two years. We have more than just two strategic products: alcohol and tobacco. Germany’s former Chancellor Adenauer said that the Soviet Union needed more cheap vodka and the consequences would not be delayed. Such recommendations are now being made with regard to Ukraine and the results are already there. The population of Ukraine is constantly shrinking, death is nearly twice the birth rate, and in the last five years, an average of 244,000 war veterans, or 668, leave us on average every day. Connecting people together with social tsunamis and other negative phenomena degrades the Ukrainian nation to extinction, transforms the state into a factory of death. In the light of this, I'll tell all the officials: it's worth a little bit to suppress the winning rhetoric, the constant increase in pensions, social benefits, the success of pension reform. War veteran Jeremenko of Lviv proposes to ask the European Union to establish a European charity fund to help Ukrainian war veterans who liberated European countries from Hitler’s fascism. This proposal is not from a good veteran’s life, but it is time for us to learn to use our wealth rationally, to stop the spoiling of the national good, and to stop the corruption of some officials. As some ministries have reported, officials have purchased $3 million worth of government - owned vehicles, two million worth of apartments. The state administration of the ex-president's affairs over the course of the year has used 70 to 80 million dollars not according to destination. Only 14 million dollars were spent on the royal refurbishment of a presidential office. One former head of the district government has secured as many as five service cars. For these and other excesses there are costs, and here minimum pensions for veterans of 332 bracelets, as provided for by the Law, have not been paid for more than 3 months. He doesn't have any money, and he's doing it now, as it were, the national authority in the paws. This is where the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office should take advantage of the advice of the classic biker about what “por and power will use”. Let's hope that the new power in the person of the President and the Prime Minister will put an end to this vacchanal. The legislative basis for this is already in place. And another painful question of veterans: replacing the benefits with an address money. The number of references to this question is increasing. The committee understands the government’s position to put order in the matter, to deal with categories of benefits, both physical and legal. But we are definitely against paying off the benefits to war veterans at a time when the size of the pension does not guarantee a normal life. And replacing the benefits with an address aid can only be acceptable if they are appropriate to the beauty of the authority that this aid will be equivalent to the benefits of a monetary equivalent. We are being watched by foreign advisors for a new wave of Ukraine's "Blue Tape" reforms. As an urgent task, it is recommended that the benefits be eliminated. Do we lack our own strategies, concepts, or programs? It would be good to put into practice that the government, the ministry or any official, by taking some kind of program, one way or another, assume responsibility for its unconditional execution. Our war veterans are humiliated not only by social needs but also morally. After the collapse of the Soviet Union and Ukraine’s independence, for 14 years now, a new trend has been imposed in the paws of seeing its history and its past. The authors of this concept foreshadow our past, the epicenter of falsification is the Soviet period, the period of the Great Homeland War. In many academic publications, university and school textbooks, printed and electronic media, the Soviet era is not uncommonly portrayed as a period of intense repression, gulags, famines, the enslavement of peoples, and the conquest of foreign territories. At the same time, the historical meaning of victory over Fascism and its components is silent: patriotism, the friendship of the nations, the heroism of Soviet soldiers, and the back of the war veterans today. All of this injuries veterans and demeans them. To complete three observations. In connection with the 2005 announcement by veterans, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, at the request of the President of Ukraine on January 15, this year, approved a program of social protection for veterans. Unfortunately, this program doesn't answer the main question -- what do veterans get from its implementation? It comes down to the general phrase: strengthen, improve, continue, constantly, and so forth. True, there is a specific point about veterans who are hundreds of years old. The other one. In preparation for today’s government meeting, we asked some ministries and authorities to provide relevant information. We are grateful to all who have provided the information in essence. But I cannot help but mention the information sent by the Ministry of Culture and Arts of Ukraine. It consists of one sentence that says that the Ministry has no proposals for resolving these issues. As they say, comments are unnecessary. And last but not least. How can we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory? The question is far from rhetorical. In view of the lively discussion of the problem in society, the committee believes that this age - old event should be marked at the highest level of government. And then there should be solemn assemblies at the Palace of Culture "Ukraine", a parade or march of winners in Khreshtika and appropriate actions in the regions. It's our eternal debt to the winners, and we have to pay it back. The effort to devalue and humiliate the Great Victory offends and humiliates the millions of our fellow countrymen who have won this victory, their children and grandchildren, and destroys the symbols of the future of generations. We are doomed, fellow believers, to light the fire of the memory not only on military memorials, where it has died in recent years because of today’s authority but also in the souls of our fellow countrymen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. From the National Security and Defence Committee, Leonid Kadenyuk has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, one of the most important tasks of today's real state social policy in Ukraine with regard to military pensioners is to provide conditions for the effective and stable functioning of their pension system. You are well aware of the point of social protection of military personnel, military pensioners, and military veterans. First of all, it's a question of eliminating the existing imbalance in the size of former military pensions depending on the time they were released from military service. To address this problem, complex measures have been taken to create a new basis for calculating and recalculating military pensions at the legislative level. In society this problem has long been an illustration in tongues. Sadly, though, what is happening now in this area cannot help but be amazed and indignant. Our committee has made considerable efforts to enact the relevant laws that provide for the elimination of imbalances within the next two years. Taking into account the state of the economy of the state, this is the maximum that could be achieved today. To solve this acute problem, last year the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of the Primary and Private Staff of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons, which introduced a new order for the calculation of military pensions. Under the new pension law, persons entitled to a pension under the Law and their families are calculated on the basis of the amount of pre-retirement financial security, taking into account the corresponding salaries for posts, the military special rank, the interest allowance for service of years, the monthly additional types of financial security. The Law took effect on January 1, 2005. This Act establishes that persons who have previously been assigned pensions under this Act are entitled to a recalculation of pensions, taking into account new positions and the payment of 50 per cent of the recalculated pension from January 1, 2005. And since January 1, 2006, a hundred percent of the pension has been recalculated. If the amount of pension or payment period from 1 January 2005 to 1 January 2006 is reduced as a result of the recalculation and the rules of this law, the pension shall be paid at a previously established rate. Moreover, this law has been amended by the Ukrainian Act of 16 December 2004, according to which, as of 1 January 2005, pensions will be recalculated to persons assigned to war veterans who have been granted appropriate status for participating in the Great War of 1941-1945 in the war with Japan in August-September 1945 and to persons who have participated in other fighting activities that preceded those wars. On 16 December 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law amending article 63 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Military Servants. [[on the recalculation of previously assigned pensions]] Under this law, all assigned pensions are recalculated due to a change in the size of at least one type of financial security. On July 9, 2004, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine commissioned ministries, other central executive authorities, to carry out pension insurance calculations on the basis of the law of June 15, 2004. But, as practice has shown, this was not done at the right time. The Ministry of Defence and other military formations have delayed the work of recalculating previously appointed pensions in accordance with the law, which has led many military pensioners to receive late retirements that have caused fair indignation, but the most bitter veterans have added that in the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 State Budget, under the pressure of the government, the positions were included, in particular, a sinister article of the 39th, which, in fact, torpedoed earlier laws on the elimination of disparities in the pension security of military personnel. All of this led to mass protests by veterans throughout Ukraine. On this occasion, on February 21, this year, our committee addressed the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka, with an appropriate letter and informed Prime Minister Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko of Ukraine. In order to remedy the situation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by vote of 317 national deputies, decided to remove article 39 from the 2005 Ukrainian State Budget Act. On the seventh of February, an adopted law signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sent to the President of Ukraine on the same day, but so far, despite the expiry of the deadline set by the Constitution of Ukraine for the signing of laws, there is no information in the Supreme Council about the decision taken by the President of Ukraine regarding the law. The question immediately arises to both the government and the President: What about the law and what about it? Unfortunately, the government of Ukraine has not taken appropriate steps to implement the provisions of Ukraine’s laws on eliminating the existing imbalance in pension insurance for military personnel. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, the state of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence was recalculated on 24 February 2005 in accordance with the law. But at the same time, Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance has not taken steps to plan and allocate the funds needed to carry out the above-mentioned pensions. In Ukraine’s State Budget for 2005, only 56.1 of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence provided for the military’s pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u103	Please allow the committee to finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u104	It is also about the fact that the amount of payments, the problem is also that the amount of pension payments has been increasing since the court’s decision of the past. In March, however, the funds for the payments were not allocated in January or February, and in March they amounted to more than 240 million dollars. In the Luhansk region alone, the amount of payments in the past tense exceeds the current payment of pensions in the area by five times. The removal from the order of the day’s problems in the military’s pension system today is entirely dependent on the government of Ukraine and those central executive authorities who are making retirement provision for former military personnel. We don't dramatize the situation, but it's really explosive. We urge the authorities to fulfill their pre-election promises, to implement their mandates for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u106	And to prevent further lawlessness and abuse of the defenders of the country. The committee has some proposals for the project, they're passed on to the profile committee. Please take them into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u107	Thank you, thank you. Honorable colleagues, reports and co-reports have been made. It's suggested this way. Let's call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. After a break, let us move on to the discussion of the matter. People’s deputies from MPs and factions will speak first and then follow the list. Is there no objection? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! We're continuing the meeting. Let's move on to the government and committee reports. First I'll get the word from the factions, then I'll get the word from the list. The word is given to Zarubinsky, a faction of the People’s Party. Get ready for Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u109	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear guests! Long ago, the original customs remained as old men were thrown off the rock as useless. Yet, even today, conversation about unpaid debt to veterans is disrupted from holiday to holiday, from date to date, mostly by conversation. Instead, veterans go out of their lives without waiting for the gratitude of society for their sacrificial feat. Of course, signs should be marked. First of all, to honor those who owe us all their lives, it is certainly now time to ask what the veteran needs more — once a year to the front 100 grams or he may need other care because he is unable to reach the mouth and cup of water. And what concerns those who are no longer able to move at all? It is a good thing that the State has become more generous and that money is more important to help the warlords and families of the dead. Sadly, however, their need for essential drugs, sanitary treatments, hearing aids, dental protections are not satisfied. For the time being, recognition of the personal merit of veterans to the Fatherland requires a weighty social equivalent, since it is essential for the next generation to do so, since caring for a veteran entails a tremendous amount of discipline. As a result of a comprehensive study of veterans ’ problems, the National Party’s faction asked its colleagues on the district councils to provide local information on veteran needs. Immediately, by the way, it became clear who cares. From this rostrum, I would like to thank the MPs of Mikolai, Ravensky, Ternopil, Odessa, Cherkaske, Chernigius, Dnipropetrovsk district councils with the operational and profound understanding of the needs of veteran environments. We've sent information analysis to the People's Party factions, and we've forwarded it to the Committee for Profile Affairs, Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons for processing. Remember, reverends, and that the frontists have a slightly different dimension of time than we have. However, they tend to be courageous in their own efforts to win in times of difficult and unsettled old age. Yet, we are insulted by the realities to which we are addressed, the relatives of those who care for the disabled of war, and we have also been handed over to the committee of profile. Dear friends, we must obviously win a fight for every veteran so that as long as possible our dear grandparents and parents will fill our lives with a hero of turbulent war years, as many of them will meet with us as possible the next anniversary of the Great Victory. And we must do everything we can to avoid the bitter insult of a group of military tears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u110	Thank you. Yes. Sergei Shevchuk, I can't see, then please, Shufrich, the faction of the Social Democratic Party. Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear veterans, dear compatriots, colleagues. For seven years, I have been wearing the sign of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, and this is the first time I have spoken from this rostrum in a non-State language. I think we should speak today in a language spoken by Uzbeks, Tatars, said Georgians, Armenians with Azerbaijanis, Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians and coastals, and today it's the language of victory. We have come a very difficult way to build our independent State, but it would not have been possible if our veterans 60 years ago had not won the victory over the Great Homeland War. I hope it's legal. Of course, it was very nice to look at the figures that the Minister of Social Policy and Labour has shown us, which, by the way, no longer listens carefully to his colleagues about the money they promise our veterans. But it should not be forgotten that there are the following benefits in the existing Budget Act, in articles 13-15: our disabled, the veterans of the Great Homeland War 3,300 griven, i.e. ten minimum pensions; 2760 griven or eight minimum pensions for persons with disabilities, the veterans of the 2nd group and for veterans, the disabled of the 3rd group, 2,310 griven, i.e. seven minimum pensions, seven minimum pensions. It should also be remembered that, as of 1 January 2005, 3326 bracelets have been allocated to the participants in hostilities on Victory Day, four minimum pensions and 996 for participants in the Great Homeland War, not awarded medals and orders. Today we must pay our veterans what they deserve and what they have already been granted by law. You don't have to come up with anything new. We will be grateful if someone can do more, but let it not be by reducing existing opportunities. And, of course, a victory parade, it must be. We don't mind worshipping our veterans at Krestatika at a large table, but not through victory, but after the victory parade. And if the new authority lacks the power and the ability to do both, then we are ready to come and collect this table ourselves, paying respect and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u112	Please, Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine. Prepare the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. It is difficult to overestimate the role of veterans of the Great Homeland War in the lives of each and every one of us. These people have given us the opportunity to be citizens of a free country today. And I personally consider myself in unpaid debt to all of them, especially since my grandfather met a German fascist invasion on the border of the Soviet Union on June 22, 1941. That is why the benefits to veterans of the war in retirement, medical, and social security are only a small tribute to our duty to them. And we are obliged to repay them in full. As a result, I think we should at least achieve that existing legislation in order to help war veterans is being fully implemented. And in view of that, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party insists on the next. It is necessary to provide in the 2005 State Budget for the full implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. First of all, the size of annual aid. According to the law, 3,320 bracelets of war are to be paid each year by the fifth of May each year, and 1,660 bracelets are to be paid to those with disabilities. This needs to be done already this year, because it's legislation in force. The second question is free car insurance. Again, according to the law. We believe that by May 9, 60 million dollars was scarce, a law that was in force and that every veteran should be provided with a car, since it is often the only possible means of transport. And it's not just our initiative today. We registered the corresponding draft decree last October, but unfortunately, the past government didn't take that into account. I'm sure this year the government has to take this into account, because the President of Ukraine has given a course on a particular person. At the meetings, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister confirm this course. I am sure that the decision we made last October can and will have to be decided. At the same time, we are convinced that we cannot limit ourselves exclusively to financial assistance at our Jubilee celebrations. First, we urge local administrations to organize visits by the authorities on May 9, with the participation of schoolchildren at the war veterans ’ clinics. The other one. Attention should be paid to the Cabinet of Ministers to organize courage lessons in schools involving war veterans, and these lessons would promote personal communication among young people with those who have made it possible for these young people to live and work today. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party believes that today we must pay tribute to all those people who, with weapons in their hands, have protected our lives with you today, our future and the future of our children. And I look forward to understanding our situation both on the side of the Cabinet of Ministers and on the side of the deputies of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u114	Yes, thank you. I can't see the rich guy. Please, then, Kosov Mikhail, "Our Ukraine." Not yet, no, no. I don't see Kosi. Then please, Teeth, Timoshenko block. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u115	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko bloc faction, All-Ukrainian Motherland Association. The distinguished Presidency, the distinguished people's deputies, our dear veterans! Not for months now, but the days separate us from that day, from that great date, the 60th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in one of the most bloody warriors of the 20th century. It is not a secret that there are today different views on the history of this war, its causes, its results, its victims. These points may be diametrically opposite. But in my view, these views are our ambiguous story, in no way diminishing the true value of the victory that the Soviet people have won against the German-Fashistic invaders. That is why it is natural today to ask: Have we, the Government, the Supreme Council, made public authorities for our veterans of the Great National War? I think that, if you will agree with me, we cannot answer this question with certainty today, and the reason is as classic as ever: we lack the means to do so. The Government's laudable commitment today to making substantial contributions to security, the social security of veterans before this bright holiday, but I think that these funds are clearly not enough. Perhaps it makes sense for all of us together, the Government and the Supreme Council, to review some of our social programmes towards a significant increase in funds allocated to the social protection of veterans of the Great Homeland War? This would be very appropriate both in terms of social justice and in terms of the military-patriot education of young people. We must not close our eyes to what our young people are learning from the way we treat veterans. And if in their eyes the veterans of the Great Homeland War are about to end, and if, God forbid, while they're still ploying, whatever resources we're investing in military patriotic education today, it's useless. That is why, I believe, we must do everything, both the Supreme Council and the Government, to make it 9 May.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Vernigora, the Socialist faction. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u117	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Is that even louder? You move closer, Comrade Suhi. Dear national deputies, dear veterans! For two convocations of Parliament's work, particularly in the Social Policy Committee. I lost my medicine, the number of laws voted in this Hall to honor the war effort of our parents in the Great Homeland War. Over the years, they have become more active and more liberal in power during the pre-election period. Veterans who suffered from various powers at their own age still believed in authority. With this faith, they quietly went beyond the limit of time, without waiting for either the truckload or the grandchild’s pensions at the minimum of living. Since the first president, they've been satisfied with "crawlers" and the second with "trumpets" and the third president's candidate, Yanukovic's, with taxes instead of statutory pensions. What do veterans expect from the new authorities? First of all, the truth, though deserved, is our veterans. And it's not that expensive at last, let's say it's one year to single out cars that's already been out on a number of occasions. Even though it's not the most expensive thing. It's not as expensive as taking drugs and giving them away, not setting a discount of 10 percent or 15 percent, which is why there are no drugs in pharmacies. Today, at this very moment, our elderly, many people are no longer in good health, listening to the broadcast from the Supreme Council -- and for the first time listening to the 60th anniversary celebration program from the new authority's mouth. Listens to us and Timothy Grebelnik from the Grebinka Poltava region, who, on his patched-over cover, went to Berlin, and now on a patched-over fence, he can't get to the market. And how to convince them, and Timothy the Reeferer, who was perhaps better than the security guard, how to reassure them that this is not the first time the government has promised, but the program of action, an honest and real program. And what's more, it's not going to be a tax parade, like in the past days, and on the day of victory, the taxpayers marched around Midan, and it's going to be a festival and a parade of veterans who made money to be honored.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Solomon. That's right, Kossov, our Ukraine faction. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u119	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear veterans! Thus, 60 years have passed since the end of or not the most terrifying war in human history triumphed over Hitler’s fascism 60 years ago. We're quite right about providing war veterans with medical and pension funds, but as a historian, I would like to pay attention to that. I think there's a historical memory here. There are no signs of war anymore between the warring states, but there are no states of war in the middle of any state. And yet I dare say that Ukraine is the only nation in the world that has not yet come out of the state of war. Until all the dots and all the participants in the fighting have been identified, the nation will be in a state of war by that time. There are two documents that can help us resolve this issue. First. An appendix to the Hague Conference of October 18, 1907, which states that military laws apply not only to states but also to national militias and voluntary groups if they meet such criteria. First. They have a person in charge who is responsible for their subjects. In the UPA army, it was General Horunji Roman Suhevich. Two. Provided with a clearly defined and easily identifiable mark. UPA was Trident, Blue and Yellow Flag and Hymn. They're carrying an open weapon. Well, of course it was an armed struggle. They adhere to their laws and customs of war. We already have a document -- this is an interim report and a historical conclusion on the activities of UPA. [[previous]] It says, "The UPA war with Soviet forces was a civil war. UPA, like the Soviet Army, was the warring side of the united nations against the Fascist bloc. ” All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u120	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u121	Dearly beloved our veterans of the Great Homeland War! Dear colleagues! It seems to me that it would be best for all of us today to bow down in token of our heartfelt sonly gratitude and respect for our deserving veterans, who are fortunately still among us. I'm going to say right now that the excessive, triumphant rhetoric of the minister in solving the socio-occupational problems of veterans is false because the problem is that the political forces that, in the years of independence, cynically destroyed the heroes of the Great War, renamed the streets and the districts, including in Kiev, the Vatutinsky region, those who offered to rehabilitate the UN UPA, rehabilitate those who worked with the Nazis, fought against the Red Army, terrorized the civilian population in Ukraine, Belarus, Poland. May 41st, instruction. Banders, "Our government must be scary. Terror for foreigners, enemies, Moscals, Poles, Jews. Exterminate intelligence. The government must be the political-militar dictatorship of the UN." Convinced that today we need to talk about very painful, vital issues, both for veterans and for society as a whole. This is exactly the position our Communist faction was taking, initiating a discussion on this day of the government's day. The faction of the company claims that we are very upset that the political team that has come to power has for the third month criminally failed to comply with the Minimum Pension Act, which should be today 332 bracelets. We require the Government to implement the legislation provided for on January 1. The compensation for sanatorium treatment should not be 150 bracelets, but the average cost of travel. The Communist faction is offering to pay off one-time financial aid until the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory to the Disability of the Great Homeland War and the 5,000th anniversary group, the 3nd group, the 3,000th anniversary, the 3nd group, the 2000th group, and the 1,000th anniversary of the fighting. This will then be a real, effective help to our veterans for the great festival. The faction suggests that savings be returned to the participants in the fighting and the disabled of the Great Homeland War, by the way, we have implemented this project. The faction is outraged that Tomenko and Minister Kirilenko are just speaking in the press and today from the rostrum are witnessing that they are trying to steal victory from our veterans. We're trying to do everything and we're insisting on a parade, a concert at the Palace of Ukraine, and it was a real victory parade. We propose to the Heads of State of the SND to hold a joint victory parade, and today we call on businessmen to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u122	Yes. Swede. Well, I don't have it on me. Well, there, find out. Suskevich, please. Valery Suškevitch microphone, will you be here? Prepare Hara. Dear colleagues, please. Please. I understand. Dear colleagues, no one. Here it automatically shuts down, well, it's just been turned off by a speaking Kosovo. Please. Please. Suskevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u124	Well, with your motives, you'll say. I'm asking you, Alexander Mikolayovich, well, please, Alexander Mikolayovich, don't make me uncomfortable. They're all in the same condition. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u125	National Deputy Suškević, People's Will faction, Ukrainian National Assembly of Disabled People. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, our venerable veterans. Today is a special day of government. First of all, the specialty of having it on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the great victory has been over, everyone has said so. The second thing is, it has one that I'd like to stop at. It is that today the problems of disabled people and war veterans in the rostrums are being reported to us by representatives of the new government. So for a new power, this day, the day of this government is a kind of social test, a test for a careful attitude, a really new state view of the problems of veterans of the Great Homeland War, a test of intent and a desire to solve these problems. In doing so, I realize that the government is reporting the state of state-of-the-state attitude towards veterans, which it wasn't creating, but at the same time, there is a test. Now essentially. After hearing reports from both the government and from the national committees, the national deputies, it cannot be denied that veterans, the disabled of the war, have been left out of the state’s attention. Many have been done, however, and at least in part to pay off the unpaid debt that is set before the disabled, those involved in the fighting, and those involved in the war. Unfortunately, that is not the case, many remain unresolved. And unfortunately, every year, the ranks of our veterans are shrinking. Statistics show that the number of war invalids in the last five years, respected colleagues, has dropped by 72,000, and the number of wartime participants by nearly 150,000. Listen to these numbers, they're very important. I'd like the government to know about it. The youngest participants in that terrible victory war are now well over seventy. And our sacred duty is to make sure that in the last days the veterans actually feel our warm attitude, the attention of the nations. And when I'm told that Ukraine's budget is so far unable to give people what's right for them, I say we have to do it. I'd take one problem first. It's a bit banal, but it's important. The problem of the loss of savings. This problem is painful for all investors who have suffered from unbalanced inflation. Clearly, more than 130 billion dollars cannot be given to everyone at the same time. The accepted State budget provides $6.5 billion in debt. Including only 500 million is cash return. Perhaps because of the need of veterans, or those to whom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've just been asked to do it again. Bet in three minutes, I beg of you. Please, Hara. Then the Faction Bunny will act. Hara Vasil Leontijovich of the "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I think that not only with the people's deputies, the members of the Ukraine Region before the greatest date, the 60th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War, there is a sense of shame in the older generation that has saved not only its country, but the whole world from the greatest of mankind's history of planetary misery is fascism. In a large number of years, and especially in recent years, the State has not provided its defenders with the basic needs. Those meager benefits that are marked by laws and decrees of the President, war veterans break out with fighting, demeaning officials at all levels. Their victory in breaking their benefits. Regrettably, no more than 20 per cent of its legal status is estimated. It's medicine and treatment, it's sanitation, and it's all kinds of transportation, utilities and other benefits. The Janukovic Government has taken some steps in this direction by establishing a minimum pension at the minimum of living for the first time, raising the payment to veterans and persons with disabilities by adopting a separate programme on veterans, increasing the financial capacity of the State declared from that stage. On the proposal of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of the Great Homeland Council, we have decided to declare 2005 the 60th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War. [[That's exactly what I'm saying. Thank you.]] And this should have been a signal to the Cabinet of Ministers to address the problems that lie ahead of the 60th anniversary of the Victory. Unfortunately, however, no effective measures have been taken by the Cabinet. Minister Kirilenko said in his report that Kabmin's plans to increase pensions for veterans and disabled persons of the Great Homeland War were good. But why doesn't the current Kabmin pay what the war veterans received in December of the month? What gave them the government of Yanukovic? This is a grave violation of the Constitution and an act against the veterans on the eve of the great feast. And on those activities that we know of, there are no fundamental proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers to provide free medical examinations, free medications. That's what's been going on for years. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction cannot agree with this. That there is a violation of the law against the veterans of the Great Homeland War. And most importantly, centuries of tradition is being violated. It's not just Soviet traditions, it's the tradition of our people to celebrate great victories with great parades and replace them with Mayans. I am deeply convinced that, in a large way, this is an attempt to nullify the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Victory. You would better propose to the Supreme Council draft laws that have dealt with the issue of the return of participants. Moreover, the lion's share of deposits is between 300 and one and a half thousand bracelets. This is exactly the contribution of the veteran of the Great Homeland War. And I agree with the proposals that the draft regulation requires revision of regulations that, contrary to the Constitution, reduce the social protection of war veterans. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction has done everything in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u128	Yes, Bunny, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u129	Victor Rabbit, Sevastopol, NDP faction, Dear colleagues! Ukraine may remain one of the States in which wartime actors are only marked by the many promises made in one or the other legislative bodies, but, in fact, real progress in the implementation of the laws against citizens who have fulfilled their obligations and have given us all more than 60 years of peace for work and construction has not been realized. And I would like to wish today both to the new Government and to the President and to the Government that today's discussion would not be a new promise. Two months before such a significant date as has been determined not only in the history of our States but throughout world history. And I would like to make a small example and a reminder from the history of my district, my constituents of the Great Homeland War, living in the town of Hero Sevastopol, a city with a special constitutional status. There's an unbuilt monument and a shell on the Cape Cristal, the contour of the museum building. For more than 14 years in Ukraine's new independent history, it is underdeveloped. Every year, when traveling here from Kiev to Odessa with German and other foreign tourists, in most of the participants in the Great Homeland War by the defeated, they ask: What is this, what is this, a sailor and a soldier and an unbuilt building? And the answer is that this is the monument that should have given our great victorious people the feat and the feat of those who stood up for the hero city of Sevastopol. In this regard, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko was also assigned in 2000. I would like to take a decision and, in preparing for this hearing, to return this year to the one and only disgraced memory of our great history being eradicated on the body and on the ground of the State so that we can deliver and direct the minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u130	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, in preparation for today's Government Day, I have communicated with the veteran asset of the Lugansk region, where I have been elected, respectively, with the regional and city councils of veterans. And I have to tell you that our veterans understand all the problems that exist today. However, and they cannot be denied, they insist that the social and material welfare of veterans, namely, health care, pension, benefits and all the rest, still find a just solution, they believe. So let's not talk about the benefits, let's talk about the problems that exist. Okay, first. The problem of the pension gap of the military is, of course, a topic that is constantly being discussed in veteran organizations. The issue of equalization of pensions due to the introduction of special merit payments to Ukraine and other supplements is also a problem. To date, the problems of taxation of war veterans remain unresolved, although the basic law does so for them. For example, I would like to bring to my attention, for example, the President of the Artemous District City of Lugansk of the Veterans' Organization, Alexei Maksimovich Tarapat, who asks: “On what basis, since the first January of this year, the 50 bracelets have been held by 17 bracelets and, in fact, only 33 bracelets have been received in January-February. There are many such questions. I must tell you that on this subject, in particular, I have introduced a bill amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Individuals. It has been considered in the Committee, and there have been positive expert evaluations, but it has not yet been submitted to the Chamber. The problem of benefits remains acute, because today the experiment conducted in Kiev and Chercass region has shown that the problem of replacing relief benefits has not been supported by veterans and here, I believe, should be the maximum superiority of the executive branch if we offer such things. The main principle, deeply convinced, should remain, as a minimum, a voluntary choice by veterans of the form of benefits: either in the form of services or in the form of equivalent cash payments. But I'll say it again, a voluntary choice by the veteran himself. I don't want to talk about much, but I want to talk about a few more problems. One of them. Regrettably, in the restructuring of the Government, which we are observing today, and “depending” in the air, and has not found its final solution to the question of whether the State Committee for Veterans will be involved. Is this such a big problem for a State to address? And the last. In terms of morals, the problem of the victory parade was much discussed and how it was noted. Maybe it'll be a parade or not for us, but it's important to the veterans, which means we have to do it. We have a duty to make this celebration so that the veterans will say, "This is our victory, and the land has not forgotten it.".. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u132	Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u133	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! Honorable Participants of the Great Homeland and World War II! I really like the wise man's phrase, which sounds like, "You can love humanity for yourself. Love what you want and how you can, but don't demand reciprocity." I am leading this to the fact that we obviously have to give up the trend of privatization. I really don't like the fact that some political power today is trying to "privatize" the participants of the Great Homeland War. Likewise, we have no right to "privatize" any single political power of UPA soldiers. They're all ours from West to East, they're all participants in World War II. Second thing I want to say. I'm absolutely sure that's my opinion, I'm entitled to it just as a human being, that we've been kicking parades for 60 years, beating tulumbasses, roaring in trumpets, and that's when those of our soldiers are. Our parents, my father, including the Red Army fighter, and the defeated Germans at that time did not drive parades, but they raised the standard of living of their frontalists. And today the question is, who won and what did they win for? This problem is, and we do not have the right to refuse it today. As a result, I am convinced that I want to support the heat. It is the first possible idea of the government to hold a celebration at the level of the soul, at the same time as to mention those who are not present today, not again, I say, to beat the drums and blow the trumpets. I'd add to that, I'm talking to Tomenko, Mr. Mikolo, let's definitely think about maybe it's possible to send either buses or trains to those who might still go where they went with the fights to Europe. This will be our veneration for them to go to the places where their brothers were buried, where they fought. There are not so many of them, and that can be done. We need to help them materially. This will be the most important part of the celebration. And the last. I've already told you today, and I want to say it again. We must, as a nation as an independent state, have a World War II, a history of which we must bend to Ukraine. Today, we have a unique example of Oles Beresta of the Ochtika family, who first raised the Red Flag over the Reichstag. I don't have time to tell you how he got up with the flashlight tonight and hung this one. Stalin then deleted it from that list. This is an amazing man who was actually offended by history. He died saving the girl from under the train and buried in Rostov. We immediately turned to Kuchma to assign him a hero of Ukraine and to bring his body here. This is the kind of thing you have to do. I'm sure it's better than parades.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u134	Gerasimov Ivan Aleksandrovich is invited to the performance, a faction of Communists. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u135	The Communist faction, Gerasimov. Respectable Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished people's deputies, respected presidents of veteran organizations of all regions of the country, respected citizens of Ukraine, believe that of many outstanding problems related to their social protection, the greatest indignation for them is twofold: the first is an insufficient material basis of life, which includes an unconstitutional hope for a decent pension that would provide at least minimal satisfaction to their needs. The second is the unsatisfactory organization of their medical care. To deal positively with the first problem and to ease their difficult life, the veteran believes that the Government is under an immediate duty to review the increase in pension insurance, to oblige and require all branches of government to continuously implement the three laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on pension indexation, depending on the price increase in the consumer market. Second, an increase in pensions, depending on salary growth and third, in the provision of pensions for years of service. Finally, to return to the veterans the contributions they've been collecting for life to their old age. First of all, at least to persons with disabilities and participants in hostilities. With regard to the second solution, veterans consider it necessary to increase the number of hospital beds for veterans because the number available today does not provide for them. Second, provide for priority funding for veteran hospitals. Decide immediately on the free provision of medical prescriptions to veterans. In retail, crazy drug prices. Approve uniform provisions on veteran hospitals as multidisciplinary treatment facilities that would be able to provide specialized assistance, including eye operations, dentistry, hearing aids and points. To return to Odessa Glacial Hospital, established in the Great Fatherland as a republican status of all Ukraine, which today serves only free operations of Odessa veterans. And the cartilage replacement operation costs 6 or 7 grand. Veterans don't have that kind of money. Next. Veterans demand that the country's organ committee include in the celebrations a mandatory worldwide celebration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u136	Well, pass it on, please. Well, what are you doing? Well, what are you accusing me of? I would like to say once again, your honorary colleagues, the committee has been preparing and the committee could propose a different regulation. We follow the committee's schedule. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Please. What are you offering me? Why are you yelling at me? Please calm down. Vladimir Puzakov, please. Dear colleagues, what are you accusing me of? That's what the culprit is. Dear colleagues, when John Alexanderovich spoke, listen carefully, and I asked that the following are both Puzakov and Solomatin. Please pass the opportunity on to John Alexanderovich. Why didn't you pass it on? What are you accusing me of? Please come in. Dear colleagues, we always continue to report, including you. Well, please, at Puzakov's expense, please speak. Why can't you give up a place to speak to your friend?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u137	We believe that it is necessary for the organ committee to set before the Government and for the President the conditions to address the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States, including our Supreme Council, in order to hold an international parade of war veterans in Moscow and to invite veterans from all the countries of the Commonwealth, former Union republics of the Soviet Union. And the last. Veterans find it totally unfounded and untimely to eliminate the State Committee of War, Labour and Military Veterans. This committee should be independent. He needs to be given more authority than the prestigious facilities of the Ministry of Labour. We believe that this should be done by its own committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u138	Please, Vladimir Puzakov. You have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u139	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I don't know who, and I'm ashamed to meet people who are begging for help, and you can't help them. Why should they ask for social protection? Do they not have the right to live a normal human life? Unfortunately, it is. Veterans of war and the back of work are forgotten by authority, though daily in the authorities are murmuring about improving the living conditions of veterans of war and labor. For more than two years, these walls have made a number of decisions regarding social protection and health care for war veterans. And it was only accepted, but unfortunately they were not released, for today’s veterans and war invalids have not felt any concern on the part of the authorities. It's just the concern that's on the paper. No one thought of providing them with coals and wood in the countryside. Veterans from the Malovski region and other regions of the region write about this. And in the district hospital, they say, they've set up two rooms for them, but they're in a state where veterans don't want to go there anymore, they don't get better, they're going to lose it to the end. What kind of extended treatment might this be? Of course, a veteran’s prescription for medical leave for the benefits will be given. But where he gets these benefits, these drugs are for the benefits, when the pharmaceuticals are not only in Kirovgrad, but throughout Ukraine. And 50 bracelets, or pension allowance, have never received war veterans and the back of the labor force, as reported by veterans in Kirovgrad. It's all over the place. To this day, veterans are not receiving a pension for military merit. Why is that? And so many are made by these people for us to be today. Did the work of wartime and postwar have been forgotten so quickly? By order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u140	Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u141	Dear compatriots! It's the day of our family, the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. But it's not just their frontal wounds that hurt the soul. That the story of their great feat has been copied. “This is our victory,” the orange president of Ukraine confidently declares, fraternizing with anti-Soviets and Americans, a quiet sorority who has come to the desired power in Baikov and a hardworking servant of the superrichs who have suffered the misery of the people. The rich will help the poor. It's his election slogan. Do you still believe that?Oh, my God! There's an ad on the orange billboards all over Kiev saying, "Peace be to you!"which our wise people have already overturned with the bitter sarcasm of Fig Us. The President, together with his Prime Minister Valkyrie, who has won the Great Victory for the past 60 years, is promising to set up tables on this occasion in the capital of Crestica, where he will offer noble veterans 100 grams of frontal drug-speaking and porpoise cauldrons to fraternize with the bandits. And Mrs. Prime Minister is even dreaming of setting up with a veteran of the front waltz. [[How?]] We remember the famous painting of our countryman, Repina, the guards are writing a letter to the Turkish sultan. Our veterans will also write to the Great Native Dead President: What the hell are you, a knight? In the midst of all this vacchanality and hypocrisy, lies, treachery and falsehoods, we would like to cry out: believe it, gentlemen and gentlemen, this victory was never shared - neither at that time in 1945 nor now, in 2005 - our victory. Our fathers and grandfathers, who won it for their humanity and gave it to us as an inheritance, fought under the battles of the Red Signs, on which the call “For Our Soviet Motherland” was embroidered with gold. As they entered the Red Army, they swore allegiance to the Socialist Fatherland. And you, the defenders of the bourgeois homeland and the capitalist wasteland, do not take away the great victory of the Soviet people, nor privatize, nor dissolve in a hypocritical chat about the common feat and common joy. Are you looking forward to the victory of the Soviet people over the armies of a united Europe who invaded us with the values they considered to be the most advanced then, 50 years ago? You guys in the West eating lunch from his desk! We have spoken, spoken, and spoken, this is our victory, hands away from our victory! There's going to be a holiday on our street.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u143	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Honorable national MPs, war veterans, distinguished warlords! I want to apologize to you for what I did and for the power that the previous speakers have been protecting with foam in my mouth, and I want to apologize for what I just told you, that you were at war with a united Europe. With a united Europe, neither the Ukrainian people nor the people of the former Soviet Union ever fought. He fought with a reaction that led to Fascism. I want to apologize for pushing up on the second day of the Great Post here mentioned such indecency. I want to apologize for the fact that the State Budget Act 2005 provides only 35 million dollars for sanatorium treatment and money compensation instead of travel, while, your honor, you were protecting that government that dropped 72 and a half million dollars for the Kirovgrad region alone in one piece of paper. And I'm like, all of the veterans are three and a half million -- and you give them 35 million dollars for sanatorium treatment, and just to wrap up one area -- 72 and a half million dollars. And they screamed "atta!" And now shout 'at me, Yushchenka!"! What's "atta!"?Oh, my God! What did he take as a country torn apart after the war?Oh, my God! What is your Communist tutor, Mr. Bodelan, to be brought up today?Oh, my God! For 34 sanatoriums, including Salute Sanatorium, the Department of Defense sanatorium, where war veterans were supposed to rest, today we need to find out who they were sold to? And then you kept your mouth shut, and that power satisfied you! And today you mention antichrists?Oh, my God! So, Your Honor, let's ask the right question. So let's ask the question that, of course, the government's work has not been done in the past, and this has not yet been able to do anything, but let's say to this government, first of all, we're asking you to comply with the legislation on veterans and war invalids -- dot, everything, we're looking at the budget, we're looking at everything else. Let's provide the cure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u144	Olga Hinzburg, the Communist faction is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'm a little bit on the other side right now. Today, in an orphanage in the village of Chershenkoh, they include gas, and I was able to do so as a Communist deputy, and I want to welcome today all the workers who participated in this to include gas in the orphanage, and together with me this problem was decided by Deputy Petrov Oleg, and this is a matter that we have decided! I would like to welcome everyone who participates today for this great work. Let's talk about the main thing. From the faction of Communists, I apologize to all veterans, including the head of the Veteran Council for not giving a word to him. I mean, honourable national MPs. Today you have to sit down for once, look into one's eyes. And tell the truth. Who else is the Communist Party that led to the victory of the Soviet people? Well, who can say no to that? The Communist Party brought victory to the Soviet people, and this victory was won. Who today can speak against the fact that a veteran does not just need a piece of bread, but he may actually have to walk under the red flag in the area. Maybe it'll be his last move! Why should you say that he just needs to eat? But if I were in the government, I'd take a clean leaf and as I go my way, I'd write first, what I have to do today is not need excises there or through the customs border to do something, but, first, do everything for the veterans. I know because I'm on my own. I was ten years old with a sick mother, and I was able to focus on the sick mother, and then be the deputy director, and then be in opposition, and then go two calls to the MPs. I don't have a housekeeper at home, and I could do it! And the government must also write: this is the first, this is the second. I also want to say it's a shame to say this, but after the 85th anniversary of the Indignation of the birth of three times, the Supreme Council voted by the Hero of the Soviet Union of Coseduba, including no member of our Ukraine. Here it is today, tomorrow, the Indignant. We're with you. What are we talking about? You say the government didn't know. He's new. He starts with a clean slate. For 14 years these people in the government sat there! 14 years! And it's a shame to say that they can't do it today. Half of them were there. And you supported this power! You voted for all the laws! Look at the land code. Today veterans, veterans today are surrounded by pies of land, today they do not have their own ponds, today they are housed. A disabled person, a warlord, if a woman dies, he can't turn his house around. And these laws were passed when who ruled the state? Look at you today. Is it possible to say that an elderly veteran or a nursing home, which we. in Crownizi, have no food to provide fully, or drugs, are disabled? If that government and I have arranged to rebuild a veteran’s house in Konotapa or Sixth, as the Minister of Health spoke of today, where could they have done so, what can I do with this government?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u146	Mikhailo Melniczuk, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u147	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear government officials, radio listeners! We're talking to socialist deputies, colleagues, and we'd like to pay attention to that. The good question that we need for the state is we're turning it into some kind of opposition. Let's stop blaming each other for some time and get together to take care of the direction that the hearing is about today in Parliament. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine was addressed by parents who lost their sons in the Armed Forces in peacetime. According to Vorobov's signature, this is in faction, we'd like to point out the following. I would like you to note, Sir, that the State has valued the lives of those children who lost them from 9 to 29 bracelets. Parents believe that support should be different, at least as it was introduced in Russia and in other countries, when the parents of the dead children in the Armed Forces they lost receive another pension, and this is, of course, for those who today have no support from their lost children. Next, I'd like to pay attention, and here we are, from the Chernovs of Kucherenko Love Pavlovna, who received 29 bracelets by September, like the widow of the disabled and the group of the Great Homeland War. After supporting Mr. Janukovic, these 29 bracelets were taken from the woman and other widows. That's what we need to pay attention to, I think there wouldn't be any questions here in order to actually give these 29 dollars back to these widows, who really, really need this money today. I would also like to pay attention, but here Ola Hinsburg spoke of veterans in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we've given the land to these people, but the lodgers refuse to treat these people with their own pies just because they can't work anymore. Is that how we work in this direction? I'd like us to pay attention to some of these things today, and please, I'd like to ask very, very much, for us, to be heard by the radio audience. Let's stop this opposition, the accusations against each other. There's the history of our nation, there's a way through which we should respect our parents, respect those who built this state, not slander them and not speak to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u148	Igor Šurma, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine is invited to speak, to prepare Lechchenko. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u149	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm addressing everyone who listens to us on the stage today and on the air. World War II ended, and it had one feature: the one who was then 18 years old, more, less, they were not able to hold political discussions at the time, as political opponents today are conducting political discussions, proving which ideology is more conducive to Ukraine’s development. They gave their lives, they died, they lost their parents, they lost their brothers, they lost their grandparents, they lost their sons, they lost their grandchildren. People died. Today, there are very few survivors of those calamities. Every day someone doesn't wait for a cow, someone loses hope of getting treated, someone doesn't get a pension bracelet, a wrong payout for residential services. The State’s obligation to make every effort to honor those who took part in the terrible second world war. I want to address the government that's sitting here. Stop the tables on the Chrystic, you're going to end badly. Think of who you will plant there and how that action will go. I am addressing you because I hope the God of mind has not taken away your mind yet. Finally, why do you take such an obligation to sit people at a table? We already have one example of a stage DJ choosing two boys out of the competition with Brazil T-shirts and rockin'-roll, and today he's going to represent a national culture at Eurobusiness. So if one person can do that, let's ask people how they want to celebrate their holiday and give them the opportunity, parade, parade, you want to cover the tables, take them out of town and cover their tables. The main thing is that the celebration of 60 years of victory is not over, it's a big mistake to celebrate only May 9th. I want to say what the social-democratic party of Ukraine will look like for war veterans. We will give you legal control and we will defend your rights. If the government doesn't pay for your pension indexes, as it's legal, if you don't pay one percent for each person who's worked over the course of a year, if you don't pay 10, 8 and 7 times the war, if you don't get a minimum pension, come to the social welfare party of Ukraine, you'll get free advice there, and if you need to sue the government that's throwing the Ukrainian law. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u150	Vladimir Leschchenko, a faction of Communists, prepare Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u151	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Today, the authorities rarely mention our parents and mothers, the glorified warriors of the Great Homeland War, the valiant laborers of peacetime. And that's not surprising. Because in the capitalist system, the master, the bourgeois, looks down on the man, sees his own profit instead. About veterans, the authorities begin to speak, not of human beings, but of electorate, just before the next election. Is that human? No, it's not. For today’s generation of our people are always and will be in unpayable debt to the elderly and to those who have gone away from us forever. It was at the cost of their lives and health that protected our Fatherland as well as the entire world from the Fascist plague. It was by their victorious work that they built for us during Soviet times in the Soviet Union a happy life. The authorities took care of the mammals, created normal living conditions for them, and respected them. The problems of older people at the time were at the top of everyone's agenda, from the top manager to the time pioneer. After 1991, things changed dramatically. At first, a number of nuvarians were flimsy, and they took away our parents’ employment savings. Then there's the national wealth. Then, in 2000-2001, Victor Yushchenka’s bourgeois government for the first time in the history of modern history became engrossed in the benefits of veterans. Then the government of Viktor Yanukovich attempted to replace these benefits with an address aid, that is, to take them all away. Today’s government seems to be continuing. Today, tens of thousands of war veterans, especially in rural areas, are unable to obtain free qualified medical care because there is no money in charge. The long queues of war invalids are waiting for special cars -- they don't have money. A sick veteran instead of a sanatorium trip of 1,500 bucks can’t even get 100 — they don’t have any money. The war veteran Vasil Chernish of the Coropa region of Chernigiv has never been awarded his war prizes before -- they don't have any money. [[Order and Medal of Courage]] And veterans and invalids of the Great Native War of the village of Kudrovka in the region of Sosnov, Montenegro, as well as millions of their fellow countrymen, probably will not be able to wait for the statutory passage on the bus to the hospital. They don't have any money. You can't get to power and an 87-year-old widow of a soldier of the Red Army who died on the front of Eva Rasputna from the village of Potiyuk of the Bilocerk district of Kiev. They don't pay her rent, they don't pay her money. And such shameful examples of the inhumane treatment of veterans by now. So the only way out is to establish really national authority -- Soviet power, which is what I want for veterans. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u152	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine, has the floor. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, today we are talking about celebrating 60 years of the Great Victory. And every time this date, or 60 or 50, comes up, we remember that we have veterans, and we have to do something for them. And so when we talk about responsibility, I think that the responsibility for what we have today lies with many governments for the situation that our colleagues spoke of. But I want to read you an interesting piece of information signed by Julia Timoshenko, and I'll tell you why I'm doing this. It is said that since January 1, 2004, a solid pension system has been in operation. The period of work of the Great Homeland War is counted on a double scale. This was decided by the Supreme Council. Next. Last year, a number of laws were initiated that had the support of the Supreme Council to improve pension insurance, a minimum pension. That is, only the government of Yanukovich began to do something serious for the veterans. And only the government of Yanukovic in their program, when Janukovic went to the president, said that they would pay normal pensions, give cars and solve savings! I want to support those colleagues that were talking today, and especially Zibanko, about how we need to deal with the savings, and that's what Herasim, those veterans, those war invalids, was talking about paying them first. What does the new government offer today? The pensions are frozen, the extras are frozen. But interesting money. You've noticed that your honorary colleague Kirilenko said that on Victory Day they're going to give 50 bucks to each veteran. Mr. Kirilenko, give 60 by one bracelet for each year of Victory. Because it may be enough for a bottle and not enough for a snack. There you go. Right, so we decided on this question -- get a U.S. drunk, cover the tables, bring in the veterans. And here. I also refer to Cibenko, who said that 200,000 people die each year, many of them as they say. So put this money on medication, not on the table, where the bums will come, and whoever you want will come. And what's more, my respectable colleagues, I'm looking up at the mountain: they see the leaders of veteran organizations, well, that's good. My colleague Herasimov said, and why didn't we listen to them, why don't we just ask them today if they'd write a note, get us whatever they want, get a chair, or they want a victory parade? Please don't comment on me. So, dear friends, I believe that, really, what are the issues that need to be addressed today? The first question is to review pensions for veterans, war invalids. Second, to settle and save. And the third is to make it possible for us to get the most cars. And lastly, the victory parade must be, because it's a celebration for the soul of every war veteran. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u154	Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u155	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, dear voters! 60 years of victory is an important event for the use of the Ukrainian people and all the peoples of the Soviet Union. And it is a shame that the marking of this momentous event occurred during the reign of the orange president and the government, who have no intention of properly honoring those who, in 1945, had raised the red flag of victory on the fronts of the Great Homeland War. And such a date, such a victory to mark only the chairs? Well, it's just a church, it's, to a lesser extent, a disrespect for these people. How can we, along with the bandits at one table, celebrate such a great victory? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, leader of our party and faction, said in his speech what must be done. And if you'd listened to those words and paid the sums you were talking about, that would be half as much as it was spent on the inauguration of the new president. And for veterans, it would be very important and very helpful. Look, three and a half men are sitting there defending that position, which is to be compared to the UN-OPA soldiers to the liberators. We put the gun down, and let's go. And what they need to do is mark this event, they don't need it at all. So let's just take some moments: provision of transportation for disabled people. Well, they say there's no money. But such queues, people keep turning around that they can't figure out what they're in turn to get a car. At least there's an order here?Oh, my God! The 40th article of the Constitution guarantees free medical care. We don't have it. Well, even though these people -- veterans, participants, workers in the back -- can you get the Constitution to be fulfilled, and that their medical care is free? I think so, but no one in today's government is talking about it. I already know from practice what this is on Government Day today -- and it's all going to stay that way, no one's going to do anything, because it's not up to us deputies, it's up to us. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the law that has been passed on the pension insurance of military personnel, which the President has neither signed nor vetoed, will strengthen us, and will personally sign it for you, publish it, and it will enter into force. I understand that there is some political risk, but believe me, people on the fronts have risked a lot more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with regard to Alexander Masenka's last remark, I would like to say that the Constitution provides for the Constitution, that the President of Ukraine, within 15 days of receiving the law or signing it, or giving motivated observations. And then, I quote you, "If the President doesn't do the first and the second, he's bound to publish the law as he steps into action." Unfortunately, there is no such authority in the head of Parliament. And I, my esteemed colleagues, I know the Constitution, I've referred to it several times. I want to tell you that yesterday, when we discussed the basic parameters of the budget changes, there was the Prime Minister's assurance that this law was included in the changes to the budget that we are going to adopt. I mean, actually. For 39 articles, do you mean? Nine. That's what I mean. Dear colleagues! I gave you objective information, you don't have to blame me. The last speaker, Anatoly Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u157	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Head, voters, my colleagues! Most of the veterans ’ problems have been raised, and I have to tell them how not to act in relation to history. So once again I have to turn to the leadership of the state, including the Prime Minister of Ukraine, from the situation in the city of Tsurupinsk-Hersson district between the veteran organization and the local automotive community. As I have reported, an act of vandalism has been committed against the monument in honor of the liberation soldiers of the city. My appeal to the Attorney General's Office has not yet had an effective effect, and the government officials in general, referring to the Ministry of Culture, in response to the Supreme Council and the People's Deputies, have reported that the parties have reached agreement. What understanding is involved when relationships have reached a higher point of conflict. In his letters to the law - enforcement authorities, the director of the Tsurupina Autocafal parish calls for further destructive action, and the righteous action of veterans and city leaders to protect the destroyed historical monument calls idolatry. The date of the restoration of the monument has been made public three times. At first, the landowners, parishioners, and Cossacks failed to implement the decision, and they were unable to bring the historical relic to the scene. The second attempt was scheduled for February 18, but it was not possible to restore justice. The head of the district government had to intervene in the matter. However, as they say, the chariot is there now. On Motherland’s Day, the veterans placed flowers at the foot of a monument, where there was no monument, and then a rally took place. The speakers stated: A monument to the city’s liberators should be placed in place. And here I am today addressing Prime Minister Timoshenko once again, demanding that the government's decree, the government's December decree, the government's previous government on the transfer of the monument. Today, distinguished national MPs and distinguished guests, we know that the city of Turupin has been virtually proven, land has been illegally allocated, the decision has been taken illegally by the city council 10 years ago. Today the conflict has gone too far to avoid appropriate further opposition to preserve the memory of our liberator heroes, so that today we do not add, as they say, to their souls not to impose further wounds, we are obliged to cancel the previous ruling. I was literally three days ago in the city of Tsurupinsk, I was meeting with a veteran asset, and they're all asking us not to do it the day before 60.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! Wait a minute, wait a minute! I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, I'm about to read out how many people have spoken so you don't blame me. I've been reading factions for minutes. "Our Ukraine" - 12 minutes, communists - 43 minutes, "Ukraine" - 8 minutes, National Party - 9. Why are you accusing me? Don't blame me, please! With motive? It'll be a possibility. Don't blame me, please. I ask again, I go, according to the Rules. Please don't blame me. One minute, it'll be with motive before the vote. Dear colleagues, I cannot serve as one, I serve the Supreme Council and the Rules! Let's have a closing word, Deputy Prime Minister, then Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, then let me summarize. There will be a motive before the vote. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Our venerable veterans! I want to say that I don't remember in the session room when the Deputy Prime Minister and the ministers would come and sit in the hall and work, rather than the 10 deputy ministers. I wish you wouldn't forget that. We've worked with you here for 3.5 years and the government's attitude towards Parliament and parliamentary issues, to my deep conviction, is fundamentally different, because we understand that Parliament is an institution that takes decisions that we want to make with it, for those people, not for 9 May, but for the entire period that unfortunately is not much left in their lives. So I want to say, without political and party talk, let's think about the second budget story. For the old budget, Viktor Yushchenko, Julia Timoshenko and Mikola Tomenko did not vote in favour of the old budget, but our colleagues voted in favour of the old budget: the Communist faction, the "Regions", the SDPU. In the old budget, the old budget, I'm sorry, I know who voted for what. In our old budget, in our current budget, we did not even manage to raise money to produce the Jubilee prizes for all veterans and wargoers. What we'll do. And all the frontists will be rewarded by 9 May, and the warlords by the end of the year, apart from the payments they've been criticizing here, for the 50th anniversary warlords, are the things you've voted for. And today we're thinking about how to make them bigger. I'll say that in the new version of the budget, we predict that if Parliament supports us, this equation, which is today -- 83% of the pensioners today, including those in the war, will get 295 dollars. We're going to raise these sums to 401 bracelets, to 421 bracelets, to invalids of different categories, from 491 to 421 bracelets. I'm not talking about other social benefits that we're planning in that budget that we want to be responsible for, not in that we didn't vote for. I want to remind our colleagues, who are active social professionals, that there is a difference between frontalists and the difference between war participants. And we want the frontists who fought to really get the attention of the government and all the power to do so. And you know, the story with the war participants is that today we have a total of three million people who have a licence, and more than half of them have not been in war and have not fought. Because you know how these things were handled. Thus, the government’s key thesis is that participants in fighting, frontalists, and largely war participants. It's about political things. You know, I wouldn't want us to have a party. And when I'm being taught here what war is, I want to tell you that the leader of SDPU Victor Medvedchuk did not serve in the army, for a socially disadvantaged man was under investigation. The leader of the Party of Regions did not serve in the army because he was in prison. The Company leader did not serve in the army either. And I was at war for a year and eight months. And I know what war is. So I respect John Alexandrovich Gerasimov, who was also at war. And so when guys talk about war here, I have to remind you to be correct and be a little bit educated about it. We don't want the parade to be held for the heads of state who chew gum after they've had a drink before the parade. We want it to be a parade for every frontier, a parade where every man has met with the head of state and could say that he thinks about this power. And I want to promise you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, finally you will all be promised that by May 9, especially the veterans, you will see how, who took care of the veterans. Yesterday the case was referred to the prosecutor's office about how the former Minister of Labour and Social Policy, one of the leaders of the SDPU(o) out of 26 million bracelets for 20 million veteran glasses disappeared and 770,000 glasses disappeared from Ukraine. This right here is open. You will see how the previous authorities cared about the veterans. And I want to assure you that this year will be a year of attention to veterans, not a year of political show around veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Well, what you're suggesting, I can't say. What do you suggest? We made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I beg of you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u162	I'm going to be speaking now, I'm going to talk about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Mikolaiovich, I wrote down, I'm going to speak now, I'm going to talk about it. Give me a chance. Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, first of all on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank all the people's deputies who have taken part in the discussion of this extremely important, acute social problem. First. Secondly, I would like to speak to the government, including the two ministers who were in the rostrum, to the vice-premier who spoke the closing word, about what. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not promise that we'll take into account the budget, let's clearly implement the rule of law. The law provides that the minimum pension for employment is 332 bracelets plus an additional one percent of the minimum wage for each year of work. These supplements, which may be before that, on top of that -- there'll be nothing else. Let's do the law on single payment to veterans, and it's designed to be ten minimum pensions for the first group with disabilities, eight for the second group with disabilities. And there will be no questions. And everyone will be satisfied with the solution. And the third. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on behalf of the committee, I propose that, on the basis of a draft decision given to the people's deputies who agreed with him, by adding to him at least two of the principle things that have been said in many speeches, that the Supreme Council considers it necessary to hold a victory parade, a march of winners, and by adding the issue of the preservation of the State Committee on Veterans, to vote on this document. [[It's a different thing to call it.]] Because we understand that those who do not vote for this decree today will not vote in a week, two weeks and so on. So I suggest you accept the document today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, we agreed that there would be reasons before the vote. We made a deal. Well, wait a minute. Calm down. According to the Order on Government Day, the Chief of Staff should summarize the discussion. I'll take that right. Dear National Deputies! Respectful treatment of veterans is a sacred duty of the State. And that's what we normally focus on. The official information on the enforcement of valid legislation in this most important area for society often, I emphasize, often increases the level of concern for war veterans as well as for all other categories of veterans. Real pensions, benefits, and payments do not correspond to the size of valid legislation. It is unfortunate that this is the subject that we have put out of our sight, and the consideration of the issue has been translated into the plane of political opposition that Michael Melniczuk spoke of, as well as into the plane of a demonstration of respect for veterans, especially on the eve of Victory Day, above all before the elections. But we should pay attention to the fact that, above all, the current laws do not correspond to the actual benefits and payments to veterans on Victory Day. By the way, this was where Nicholas Tomenck's budget was criticized. But what I want to say is that the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act states that in 2005 the annual lump sum payment in accordance with the Ukrainian War Status, the guarantees of their social protection will be made on the following scales: those with disabilities of war and groups -- 400 gruesomes, those with disabilities of war II -- 330, those with disabilities of group II -- 270, those with disabilities -- 250, those with special merit in front of the Fatherland -- 400 grevens, members of families of the deceased and wives, men of the dead members of the fighting and those with disabilities -- 130 grevens, participants in the war -- 50 bucks. [[Article 30]] One minute! One moment, fellows of honor! It's small. But let's now see what the Ukrainian Act of 22 October 1993 requires -- "On the Status of War Veterans and Guaranteeing Their Social Protection"? Quoting the article, article 13, “Indulgings of War: Every year, by May 5, war invalids receive one-time financial assistance in terms of the size of the disabled and group of 10 minimum pensions at the age of 10, the third group of eight minimum pensions at the age of eight, and the third group of seven minimum pensions at the age of seven. Article 14 - "Wartime benefits": "By May 5th, wartime participants, awarded orders and medals of the former USSR for self-sacrifice and irreprehensible military service in the back of the Great Homeland War, are paid once-in-a-time cash assistance in the size of four minimum pensions of age, and other war participants in the size of three minimum pensions of age. Article 15 — “Ploughs to persons who are subject to this law”: “Every year, by May 5, family members mentioned in article 10, paragraph 1, of this law, as well as to wives, men who have not been disabled by war, who have not been married for the second time, are paid once-in-a-lifetime financial assistance in the size of five minimum pensions. Women, men and women who have died in combat, members of the war, who have been declared disabled for their lives because of general illness, disability and other reasons that have not been married for the second time, the annual annual financial assistance is paid in the size of three minimum pensions at the age of three." Since January 2005, it has been known that the minimum pension at the age of 332 is to be made up of bracelets. Now let's figure out what payments should be made to the disabled and to the fighters. And that's what we need to talk about. Next thing you know, there's a constant violation of legislation on the implementation of health care and treatment for veterans. Again, I'm going to remind you of the 13th article of the Ukrainian law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social protection. At the request of persons with disabilities, a disabled person may receive financial compensation once in two years instead of going to the sanatorium. War I and Group II are 100 percent of the average travel cost, Group III war invalids are 75 percent of the average travel cost. Real life, let's see what it looks like: according to the order in which money is given and the amount of money paid and the cost of sanatorium treatment to some categories of citizens approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in April 1995, the average cost of travel is determined by the Minsocrazzi agreement with Minfin not later than March 15th each year. Now let's take another look at how they determine: for 2004, the average cost of travel was 100 dollars, for 2005, 150 dollars, while according to Ukrprofessor, the average cost of travel last year was three thousand dollars, compensation 150, I think, obviously, we all feel that there can't be any recovery or improvement in health. So let's make it clear that for 10 years the law has been replaced by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and continues to be replaced. Next. According to the law, war invalids have the right to receive medical prescriptions free of charge, but hospital hospitals have limits on free prescriptions and prescription lists, and in one hospital, for example, it is possible to read a declaration that prescriptions for no more than 20 bracelets are allowed for a month’s allowance. Imagine if you could buy 20 bracelets. War invalids take only one pharmacy in an area where medicines are not usually available. They're in line, the prescription deadline's over, then we have to start over. So let's put order here, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. Next problem. Ukraine’s Constitution, in line with world practice, does not limit the social security of veterans of all types of the Armed Forces to a minimum of living. Unlike most citizens, the armed forces have no ability to subordinate their activities to the welfare of themselves and their families, and they have to limit themselves to the financial support that the State has allocated to them. The right of those who have dedicated their lives to the service of the Armed Forces to a special level of protection of their social status on the part of the State stems from the fact that they are severely limited in the use of a large part of the potential of their freedoms that citizens of market-democratic society have. Social benefits for military personnel are not social welfare but compensation for the restrictions imposed by the State on the general rights of citizens who protect both the State and the people with weapons in their hands. That is why article 17 of the Constitution states: "Protecting Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, ensuring economic and information security are the most important functions of the state, the affairs of the entire Ukrainian people. The defense of Ukraine, its sovereignty, territorial integrity, and inviolability rely on the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The State provides social protection for Ukrainian citizens who are serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, as well as members of their families. As we do so, let us compare it with the underlying document and see that the difference is extremely great. Dear colleagues, today’s government day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has and must provide answers to these and other questions. The agreed answer is given by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. And this is to be foreseen in the decision, otherwise it was not worth spending this government day. Regarding the parade and who stands there, I want to answer to the young ministers. Dear colleagues, you may read the saints and see that the parade is usually held on the day of independence, and on May 9, there is a celebration of veterans. So obviously you need to distinguish between these two concepts when you come to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's about rewards. I will bow down to the Deputy Prime Minister when the awards will be awarded this year -- in the year 60. I swear. In public. But, dear fellows, let us conclude that since 1995, when 50 years have been celebrated, there have been no awards. And dozens of governments have changed, not dozens, but half a dozen governments, and no one has solved that question. And again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by stressing that the government, together with the Supreme Council, has to implement the laws of all those who are accepted and signed, and the official order is made public, not only to enforce the laws that he voted for. It's a paradox. And we're talking about a democratic society -- I'm not going to do it, because I didn't vote for it, I didn't support it. Let's forget about it. And I would like to remind you, dear fellows, that we are all with you today in the government bed, who are here, thinkers in the key issues. Let us not forget that we have a duty to work together, not to act as prosecutors and judges. We already have half a country under investigation, and half a country judges. Let's just forget it and we'll all do what we're obliged to do and we're called to do. I think we're all colleagues, and we need to get out of this, not compete, who's gonna give each other a little bit more of an appreciation. People will laugh at us. Now, please write it down for reasons. Five minutes, because it's an important question. It's from a motive. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Then Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski. I think you've lost your passion. The subject that we have discussed today is truly painful and multifaceted, not solved politically in many ways. It's all perfectly natural. But I would very much like us to come out of this room with one sense of government and left and right and centrist and self-centered. We need to get out of this room, understanding one thing, these are our parents. And as the son of the Red Army, today I am no different from the son of the same UPA soldier. We are children of Ukraine today. There's only one Ukraine in us, and we have to do everything we can to make peace and order in this Ukraine. I'm convinced that we need to think, not about who loves the frontists more, but about how they can help them in this difficult situation of survival. I am convinced that this will be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u166	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Then the mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u167	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think the statement by Deputy Prime Minister Tomenko shows that he never understood where he went. He showed a high level of non-professionalism, disrespect for Parliament, and demonstrated what he formally stated: “We are criminals, for three months failing to comply with Ukraine’s law”. Second. I propose that the Vice-Prime Minister conduct his training programmes in an orderly manner. In the 60s, it's a crime that we have today in our history books for high school students that participants in the Great Homeland War are criminals and bandits are heroes. Secondly, I appeal and let us address the Heads of State of the CIS with a proposal to hold a joint victory parade on 9 May. I suggest, too, that business structures should not appear in the accounts today, but that the whole of Ukraine on the boards would be victorious and would tell of the greatness of the feat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u168	Yes. Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u169	I ask you to pass the word Tkachenko to Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u170	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u171	Tuckniko Alexandro Mikolaiovich. The Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think. I think it's time we went to the President and the Government to impose a moratorium on Ukraine not to be taken prisoner today. They did not travel to Europe, and all the time was spent either in NATO or in the EU or in the WTO. Let's at least mark the 60th anniversary of Victory by imposing a moratorium on the government to work for the state, not how to surrender to a state that has become the liberator of all Europe. And secondly, I think you need today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you, I apologize, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, but you would apologize to the living monument of the Great Homeland War - Alexander, John Alexeiovich, Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u172	Yes, please, Your Honor, if John Alexanderovich of Herasimov thinks that I have offended him, I apologize. And I can't understand when I went to Ivan Alexanderovich's rostrum, so I asked then, and I said, "Now there will be two other representatives of the company, please give him the floor so he can speak for five minutes." But they didn't. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I want to go back to what we're talking about. We're talking to you about explanations of vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am a member of the Committee on Pensioners, Disabled Persons and Veterans. On this subject, the draft regulation proposed to you by the Committee has often been drafted by all possible, impossible proposals, meetings with an asset, discussions, invitations from ministries and agencies. And that document is ready for today. And what the chairman of the committee has proposed today, with two addenda, is well founded. I would like to emphasize in particular why we should do so. We must not forget with you all our affections and antipathies that talk is about the 60th anniversary of victory. Accordingly, we must do our utmost to make war veterans feel that this is their victory and that the State needs it and appreciates it. That is why I repeat this logic. Let's blame each other less, think more about veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Before the vote, Boris Bespali is required under the Rules by the voting procedure. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u175	Thank you. Boris Bespaliy, Viktor Yushchenk's bloc faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I have carefully reviewed the draft decree. Indeed, it is so that it can be taken as a basis. At the same time, I think Vladimir Mikhailovich was right when he said that the main thing in our activity should be not propaganda activity, but really quality projects that would make people better to live from. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm paying attention to this situation. We haven't voted on Government Day. Government days are not voting days, it's not even a meeting of the Supreme Council. There's been a lot of talk about legislation. And if we vote now, there's nothing we can deliver except pleasure to the participants in the rally. Moreover, it is impossible to vote on the draft as a whole. So I'm asking you to give us the opportunity to work out this document properly and vote in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u176	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, I think I have a right to say what is the position of the government with regard to the ruling. And to say that all those who spoke in terms of "crime" and "criminals," I think I fully support them. Because all those people who stole from war veterans will be in prison. I promise you on behalf of the President and the government. Now, as for the parade, dear colleagues, let's not forget. We had a military parade, an electoral parade, in October, and we didn't have to lie to anyone. Now, as far as the decision is concerned. I'm asking everyone to support this motion for a ruling. The government supports it and believes it is completely balanced, thoughtful, and we are ready to implement it with Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I am referring to the proposal made by Boris Bespalogo. Well, let's vote now, let's follow procedure. Just a minute. Please don't dictate my terms. I'll take it. Just a minute. I am taking a position on Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is approved by the relevant Supreme Council decree. Paragraph 12, I read: "After discussion of each issue, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may adopt a separate decision to monitor the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with article 80, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine, make proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers or to the members of the Government or direct a request to the President of Ukraine with appropriate conclusions and suggestions on the personal responsibility of individual members of the Cabinet of Ministers." So the Supreme Council has to take a decision. Moreover, the Deputy Prime Minister claims that this draft ruling is in agreement with him. That's why I'm voting with proposals. Well, calm down, you're for God's sake. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I'm taking it into account. You can listen to the end, why this verbal flow? Listen, I'm going to put it to a vote. I'd like to say again, dear colleagues. I am voting on the basis of a draft decision, taking into account the proposals made by the committee during the discussion, two proposals, to be adopted on the basis of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and marking the 60th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. Registration number 7174. Based on the base. Well, I voted. What? That's how they were published, and the committee has the right to publish. How can you not listen? For -348 The factions, please. What? Now, one minute. I would like to say once again, your honorary colleagues, the amendments I made when I announced this to the committee head, there were no objections. "Our Ukraine" - 57, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 48, National Party - 28, Socialist Party - 24, Block Timoshenko - 22, "Ukrainian One" - 17, SDPU - 21, "Democratic Ukraine" - 17, "Will of the People" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Soyuz" - 12, "Centre" - 5, NDP, "Republic" - 10, non-fractional - 13. One minute! There's an offer for the point. Let us listen, vote, and then vote in general, honourable colleagues. Boris Bespali, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u178	Thank you. I have, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in vain, I asked for the procedure because there are really suggestions on the text. And three of them I'll tell you. The first suggestion is to appeal to the executive authority to really recommend in full compliance with all the requirements required by legislation. This should be in the text of the Decree, so that it is not really discussed, which laws are being enforced, which are not being implemented, and so on. This is the first position. Second position. Where, after the words, the first paragraph, "the Supreme Council decides the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not enough." That's the wrong formula. We must assign the work of the Cabinet of Ministers under the direction of Viktor Yanukovic. And the third. In the second paragraph, on page 2, of the Ukrainian document, it is inappropriate to refer to the decision of the Council of Heads of the Commonwealth of Independent States. This is an internal Ukrainian act, and I'm asking this reference to the SND board to rule out as inappropriate in our document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u179	Boris Yakovitch, which page is this? This is the last one, the last one. Dear colleagues, there are three amendments, I'll put them to the vote now. And give me the last third, please. First amendment. Boris Bespalij suggests where, in paragraph three, we define proposals for the Cabinet of Ministers to write: "Demand the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure full implementation of the laws of this problem." Well, then we'll make it up. No warning? I'm putting this amendment to the vote, please. For - 323 Correction accepted. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 33, Communist faction - 55, “Ukraine” - 48, People's Party - 25, SPU - 21, Block Timoshenko - 22, “Ukrainian One” - 18, SDPU - 20, “Democratic Ukraine” - 18, “Will of the People” - 13, “Deminicatives” - 12, “Soyuz - 12, “Centre” - 2, “NDP” - “Republic” - 10, “O” - 14. Then, in operative paragraph one, Boris Bespali proposes that the work of the previous government be considered insufficient. Yes, Boris Yakovitch? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear fellows, there's a proposition, let's define ourselves by voting. It's not democratic. I'm voting on Boris Bespalogo's proposal to acknowledge that the work of the previous government is insufficient. [[B in m in s a l in]] We will vote on the amendment. The previous government that was before that. For - 185 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 66. That's not enough, it'd be okay. The Communist faction is 48, the Ukrainian region is 2, the People's Party is 10, the SPU is 22, the Timoshenko Block is 21, the One Ukraine is 0, the SDPU is 0, the Democratic Ukraine is 0, the Will of the People is 2, the Deminitiate is 0, the Union is 0, the Center is 5, the NDP is the Republic is 0, the Postfaction is 9. One minute, we're voting on the amendments, not on the record. Boris Jakovic, your third amendment. Well, one minute! Please, third amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u180	The third amendment is to delete the SND text. But I would like to point out that making a decision makes no sense when we define a lack of work that is unclear to what government. Then it is simply a decision to be passed on to the committee or to be taken off. We cannot abstractly define an institution as the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council as a specific government, and we can view its work as unsatisfactory. That's why you're breaking up the decision making in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u181	I think your honors, the third amendment, which page she's on, please tell me. And now, "According to the decision of the Heads of State of the Commonwealth. And I'll order it.".. The proposal is, well, let's vote later. Dear colleagues, Boris Jakovitch Bespalij proposes to exclude "according to the decisions of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States" and to leave simply "according to the President's decree.""--and beyond the text. Right? I'm voting on Boris Bespalogo's proposal. For" - 121. Correction. Now, one minute. Paul Kachure. And then Rephat Chubarov. Let's just make proposals that need to be voted on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u182	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Here we are indignant that this rule of law is not being fulfilled, another norm is not being fulfilled, and at the same time, we are starting to work in a mode where we are not aware of what to do. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, who, not you, the Head of the Supreme Council, understands that the ruling is a serious document that we should vote for, knowing what we are voting for. Yeah, there's a committee project. We're ready for it because it's a work document, we're willing to vote for it if there are any amendments. Obviously they should be presented, and then processed, and then voted on in general. We make a mockery of the Supreme Council Order by voting in a vote, and then we resent that these decisions are not being implemented. We do the same with laws. Well, let's respect ourselves, the Supreme Council and the documents that the Supreme Council accepts, and not just do, you know, some comedy. I propose we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, one minute. We voted on the basis, then we started making proposals, we're already voting. One minute, one minute. If you say the same thing, Boris Jakovitch Bespaliy said he needed time, but we've already gone to work. Let's go all the way. Rephat Chubarov, proposal for correction. Well, please. I don't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u184	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. And thank you. That's what I was going to say when I asked for leadership, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is my right as a national deputy of Ukraine. I don't know what I've been proposing to the Bespallian MP, but I do know that in order for me to personally evaluate his proposals, especially those for which today's vote requires a large budget expenditure, I have a right for some time to assess, to make any changes to this proposal, the committees have to look at it, and then we have to vote in the room. You can see that today those in the hall who drive horses, they don't care about veterans, they just want to make a situation like this -- make it absurd for any person who has the right to do that, they don't feel the holiday that we're going to celebrate all of May 9. So I demand that we stop voting now because we voted on the basis. Give the commission to the committees appropriate, and in 2-3 days, put and vote with all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, no extra expenses from the budget, this ruling does not provide for this. If - one minute - the vice-premier knows, the ministers have been preparing this question, and you look and read, there is a reference to the same decisions that the government has actually taken on this issue. Well, let's be consistent and calm society. Please, Alexandrovska. Corrections only if there is. Then Rudzkowski, if there are any amendments, we will vote on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I propose to vote in general. The Rules of Work of the Supreme Council allow us to do so. Deputies who have their comments or the ability to present them and ultimately are resolved by a vote. Please put to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u187	Rudzik's Mikola amendment, please, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u188	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I think we've discussed this in detail and we're ready to vote it out in general right now and let's not make fun of people and just look in front of our veterans. We must accept this determination today, no constructive proposal comes before the decision, but only to carry on. Let's work in normal working mode. When we make a decision, the government will see that if it considers something inappropriate, it will make its proposals. What we should adapt to the government's thinking, not the government, was governed by the Supreme Council's rulings and decisions. It takes a chicken to walk ahead of the eggs. It seems to me that the national electorate should define the government's policy and set the tone in this state, including on important issues such as veterans' issues and attitudes towards the people who have provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u189	Thank you. Is there an offer? Please make an offer. Dear colleagues! Let's go this way. If Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna has an offer, too. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. If he has an offer, at school, I am obliged to give him the right to bring it. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u190	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like to go back. If they did not vote on the amendment that Boris Bespali proposed in order to recognize a specific previous government, I propose to make an amendment and vote in this room, "The Yanukovich government will recognize which one." And so on and so forth. I think it's a perfectly normal proposition to take away the speculation around this determination. Because many want to use this decree to play in front of their electorate once more and stab the existing government. It's clear on both the motives of the performances and the quality, and then who's speaking. So I think it's okay to take a vote and then not go back to that subject, so it's all settled in principle. Because if it's not resolved, there's still going to be problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Now, this proposal, I've announced Grigorovich. If there's an offer, we'll vote. Because now everyone has proposals. So one minute, an offer was made to recognize the government's lack of work led by Viktor Yanukovic. I'm putting this proposal to the vote. There was a previous government, and now another formulation has changed. For - 163. The decision is not taken, please, Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich, your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I really want us not to make fun of our veterans and let them down. First of all, I would very much like members of the other factions to vote where they sit instead of vote elsewhere. That's the first one. The other one. I would very much like us not to vote on the amendments to the vote, because we can, in fact, laugh and cheat. I would very much like to vote in the first reading, we would allow the government to count, look at the results of the proposals from the vote, and then vote in the second, very serious motives after a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-15-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, let's deal with it this way, enough, enough already. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make this happen: we don't have in this draft any of the confrontational moments that we had when we were talking about. So, dear fellows, please don't dictate my terms. So let me now vote on the approval of the entire draft regulation, taking into account the amendments found in support of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7174. Please vote. Well, then we'll be making offers in three hours. For -345. I'll take the order. In factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 44 Communists - 52, "Regions of Ukraine" -49, National Party - 28 SPU - 25, Block Timoshenko - 20, "One Ukraine" - 20, SDPU - 21, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, "Will of the People" - 15, "Democratic Initiatives - 10, "Union" - 12, Center - 7, NDP, Republic - 9, non-fractional - 15. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o’clock, we will begin consideration of the changes to the customs tariff. An appropriate lot of questions would ask everyone to be in the workplace.
