ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:02:43]] There were 407 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy Catherine Samuel. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us success in good health. Dear colleagues! Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the withdrawal of the Party’s “Regions of Ukraine” by Kiril Policchuk. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Board meeting, we decided on a list of the bills to be considered today, the schedule of meetings for Tuesday before you. Let's get to work. It is announced for consideration of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. [[on the financing of the pension deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the payment of pensions]] [[second reading]] The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, please serve as chairman of the committee. Dear National Deputies! Now the budget committee, together with the government downstairs, is holding a meeting, so let's now look at the other two issues, and as for this bill and the budget, let's go back a little bit later. No warning? A draft Coal Gas Act is being announced for consideration. Bysarov Leonid Volodymyrovich, please. The following rules are proposed: For a report of up to five minutes, the answer to the interviewer’s questions in three minutes, for discussion and decision-making in five minutes. Let's at least give it 10 minutes if there's no warning. You don't? Yes, please, Leonid Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Let me explain the tasks that were involved in the drafting of the bill. At present, coal companies can provide not only coal but also gas. World practice and the experience of many countries show that not only can methane be successfully combated but it can also be used for industrial purposes, such as heat stations, metallurgical and chemical factories, such as fuel for motor vehicles and household fuels. In the United States, technology has been successful in enabling it to be extracted from both coal layers and in the exploitation process. According to the U.S. Gas Institute, global carbon methane production in 2010 is expected to increase to 610 billion. Cubometers per year. This is 20 percent of the total natural gas production. Obviously for Ukraine's coal industry, where methane is the cause of many of its problems, it's the best way. Scientists estimate that the Ukrainian part of the Donetsk basin contains up to 20 trillion cubic feet [20 trillion cu m] of methane. And now it's possible to get up to three billion cubic meters per year. This not only solves the problem of the safety of miners but also produces reliable clean energy. A thousand cubic feet of methane per heat capacity is equal to the thinner of the most calorie coal. At the same time, almost all the potential for carbon methane remains declared only on paper and has a negative effect. Of the two hundred mines in Ukraine, 87 percent are gas - resistant. And the most tragic thing is that the state today is unable to control this process. Gas production and processing are so weak that coal methane is literally thrown into the wind. In addition, the release of methane into the air causes a significant deterioration in the ecological state of the environment. Methane is known to be one of six major greenhouse gases that, over a century, can keep the atmosphere warm 20 times as much as carbon dioxide. Over the past two centuries, the concentration of methane in the atmosphere has increased more than twice. In Ukraine, however, methane emissions account for 80 percent of all methane emissions in energy. Nevertheless, no law regulates the production and further use of carbon methane. The only law that mentions coal methane is the law on alternative types of liquid and gas fuel. Coal methane, mentioned by law, only refers to an alternative type of fuel. The proposed bill lays the groundwork for the creation and development of the methane industry, which will enable us to significantly reduce the dependence of our enterprises on the supply of fuel and energy from abroad. Moreover, the necessary development of the project comes out of the demands of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to improve the safety of coal mines. Since there is virtually no methane industry in Ukraine today, individual coal enterprises that deal with the methane problem themselves may not use budget costs, but may consider that the budget will not be costed, rather, the implementation of the bill will reduce the cost of the budget by reducing funding for the elimination of coal mines, reducing the volume of imports of natural gas, reducing the cost of financing environmental programmes, reducing the cost of purchasing energy resources for utilities and meeting household needs, creating new jobs. The comments made under this bill by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration refer, not to the idea of law, but to the technical and legal correction of the text. This is mainly about the names of individual chapters and the specific direction of an organization that controls the implementation of the law. The proposal data will be taken into account in further work on the project. In view of all of the above, I ask you, dear colleagues, to support the bill by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Report completed. Dear colleagues, questions. Please sign in, if any. Three minutes. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”, faction of the “Regions” Party. Dear Leonid Volodymyrovich, I think there will be no doubt in this session room about the high relevance and importance of your bill, especially the need to achieve and preserve national energy security. This is really question number one, considering that the new orange authorities have taken and the sick head has been eliminated by the State Energy Conservation Committee. But please tell me about these warnings that are before your bill: how will your bill, the current bill and the subsequent implementation of this law comply with environmental legislation, environmental safety standards? How will the introduction of this law contribute to environmental security, or will it be difficult?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u5	Thank you for your observation. And I'm sorry. I must say that the decision of this law will allow for a comprehensive approach to the problem of methane. This is the Kyoto Agreement that we are entering into today and the environmental security that is now in Ukraine. Methane emissions always go, and today in Central Donbass there are cases where it even enters the apartment. There is no technology for the production of methane gas in Ukraine. And this law will not only address security, it will decide the environmental system, and we will get a cheap energy carrier for at least domestic fuel, which is naturally lacking today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u6	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u7	Mironenko, the Communist faction. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support the bill, but the next question will be highlighted. What specific central authority of the executive branch would deal directly with these issues, as reflected in the bill? That's the first one. And the second. Please tell me, how do you feel about the position of the Government and the President regarding this issue? And the last. In your view, do you not think that Russia is still in the process of a confrontational policy that is harmful in all respects, including with regard to Ukraine's energy security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u8	Thank you. I must say that the bill is intended for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop and implement the laws that we will adopt here with you. And all of these nuances that are here are the prerogatives of the Cabinet of Ministers on the situation of mining and the implementation of methane on the basis of the law that we are going to enact here. Secondly, I must say that the position of both the Government and all the leaders of Ukraine must be unequivocal. Not only environmental security, but industrial safety, coal security, methane, which is now allocated to 300, 400, there are enterprises, cubic meters per minute per tonne of production. You know, he's making us late today, but to pass this law. And this law, to some extent, is actually working for Ukraine's economic independence, and I think what you're going to get, and it's being obtained today in Poland and in America in sufficient quantity, will contribute to what you said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Yes, there were nine national deputies. Please, Yuri Solomatin. Prepare Michael Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u10	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management. Dear colleagues, certainly, the bill that we have proposed to our attention is relevant, but in fact, and on the scale of its action to address Ukraine's energy security, the scope of the draft is the same as that of a dead park. That is why I agree with the questions that our colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy, Victor Mironenko, has offered us. Nevertheless, the problem of the rational use of coal methane is certainly relevant. We on the committee reviewed the bill and supported it. Such activities should be carried out, methane disposed of, and that would be normal, reasonable environmental management. To date, this methane is more in the opinion of our society in relation to the scourge that occasionally comes to the mine of Ukraine, when explosions and miners are killed in violation of security regulations. Therefore, the problem that our colleague, the representative of the Donetsk region, has been faced with is not only the disposal of coal methane, but also the creation of safer working conditions for miners and the creation of a more comfortable psychological atmosphere in the region, so that miners, when they go down to the mine, will know that they work in safe conditions and not only in safe conditions, but also that methane works for society, working for the Donetsk region, working for our State. In view of the foregoing, I would like to stress that the Communist faction clearly supports the bill. And we hope that the miners will understand our position and support our faction and our Communist Party, the Communist Party, in many other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u11	Mikhail Volintz, BUT faction. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u12	Mikhailo Wolintz, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear colleagues, this bill is extremely relevant today for Ukraine in terms of energy crisis, primarily the problem of gas, and from an ecological point of view, in terms of safety on coal mines. In the last 14 years alone, more than 4,000 miners have been killed on coal mines. And the majority, 90%, of those who died are from methane gas explosions. That's the first one. Second, greenhouse effects. In Ukraine, methane emissions from the greenhouse effect are 35%. The third question is, this is the use of methane in the national economy. An example is the pit of the West. When the mine is fully self - sustaining, methane gas, electricity produced from methane gas, and heat. In addition, half of this amount is devoted to providing heat and gas to the city. Methane gas is also used today as fuel for cars and other modes of transport. In Ukraine, about 20 trillion cubic feet [20 trillion m] of methane gas is now contained in coal layers and in the surrounding fields. If you open a support programme for this bill today, change some 7-8 bills and provide adequate funding, maybe today in Ukraine you can extract more than 3 trillion cubic metres of methane gas. This is at a time when Ukraine is producing 17 trillion cubic meters a year. And that's why we need financial support for this bill today, because without State support, it's impossible to open it up. I was a participant in the 5th World Congress on the Extraction of Methane from Layers and the Use of It in the National Economy, which took place in the United States, visited all facilities where methane gas was produced and saw that the State was providing appropriate measures to enable this bill to unfold and be operational. For example, a change in taxes. For example, the first step is to change the tax system, provide financial support, and provide budgetary funding for the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u13	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Committee on Freedom of Speech Dear lawmakers, and, dearly beloved of our electors! Smart people are said to pay, not the examiners, but much more to pay the tutors. So it seems that in our Ukrainian society you have a rudimentary of sonicism, which led to the fact that we are adopting this bill so late, it had to be adopted somewhere in 1992-1993 and not later. But we have, indeed, a peak situation today, and this is the result that this law has not been passed before. I would very much like our electorate to understand why this has happened, and it has become clear that our officials, government officials and prime ministers over this long period have been much more comfortable buying gas in Russia, there have been schemes, their outlets, their shadowy devices, and virtually no coins have been invested in getting our own Ukrainian oil and gas. As for this bill, it's very multilateral to me, first of all, that it affects, indeed, the security of Ukraine's national security, and we can have a huge amount of methane that we can mine today. But there is a second aspect of this bill why it should be voted for. Because it is, in fact, we know that we have coal in Ukraine that we extract, all with mining blood. You see how many of these deaths have already taken place and, God forbid they're gone, but they've already been because of it. This was usually the same methane gas. Because of this, I think the cock has finally pecked Ukraine and we're going back to this bill and I'm convinced that it needs to be accepted. I think the next bill should follow the same. It's still a matter of courage that we must, after all, spend on it as good masters in our country and still get oil in the shelf of our seas. I understand how expensive that is. I recall when Zweigilski, while still serving as Prime Minister, asked a question. But I understand how much money it takes. That's why we don't need to save money on this, but we need to make a big investment, and finally get rid of this terrible blackmail that we have today, not Russia, but free and arrogant Russian politicians. I have no doubt about it. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u15	Yuhim Zviagiliski. Ah, Calinchuk. Then Zweigilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u16	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Each of us well imagines the price that people have to pay for black gold. The terrible statistics of this wage, which weighs on human lives, are due to the presence of a silent killer, whose name is methane gas, who is always forced to reinforce precious security measures. By generalizing all the pros and cons of the bill that we're considering, we can say that the greatest advantage is that the authors have suggested ways like this silent killer to neutralize, to make the breadwinner of the population. Methane is known to be priceless fuel, much cheaper than gasoline or diesel fuel, much safer environmentally than any schoolboy knows. And the huge, virtually undeveloped resources of methane in coal fields give the economy a good perspective. In an energy-deficit-sufficient country today, with a cable-dependent supply of energy from other countries, it is unacceptable to waste millions of cubes under the economic conditions of blue fuel. Why are our nearby neighbors from Western Europe like caring hosts and windmills running, and the water wheel makes them benefit from spinning, and the solar battery is set up, and they're looking for a copy to invest in methane extraction technologies when degassing coal layers and so on. As a result, the People’s Party faction of the People’s Block of Lithuania proposes to support this bill, which defines the basic legal, economic and organizational principles of activity in the field of improving the level of security of coal by removing gas and regulates relations related to its future use. By adopting this bill, we will lay the foundations of public policy in the area of mining and the use of carbon methane gas, and we will define a legislative mechanism for State guarantees to stimulate activities in the field of mining and use of this type of fossil fuel, as well as the principles of economic activity in this area. Once again, we invite the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this bill in their first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u17	Zvegilski Yuhim Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable People's Deputies. First. Our coal mines are used by methane degasification for safety purposes. Methane extraction should therefore be considered only for disposal. Second. The prohibition of coal production without methane recovery is permissible only for new mines that have been in service since 2008. Third. Institutional, economic relations, including income distribution and revenues between the degassing mine and other legal entities that process, store and use methane, should be clearly regulated. Fourth. In setting the charges for subsoil and the fees for geological exploration for methane, it should be borne in mind that its mining from mines is much more labour-intensive than conventional gas and even shelf deposits. Fifth. If a year after the licence has been granted, the permit has not been commenced or after two years of gas production has expired, the licence shall be revoked. The freezing of the country's gas resources for many years is not excluded without such a restriction. The draft should be taken as a basis for further work, taking into account those comments that I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Coal Gas Act has been completed. [[Methane]] The committee proposes that the project be based. This proposal is based on a vote. May I have your attention, please? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Coal Gas Act is put to the vote. Registration number 4451. Please vote. [[10:28:25]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the social protection of military and military personnel assigned to educational and special congregations is under consideration. [[or checkable]] Reporter Leonid Kadenuk is the deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee. Yes, please answer the questions in three minutes for the report. The committee suggests that the bill be discussed within 10 minutes. No warning? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, the draft bill envisions a series of changes to Ukraine's laws on social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families, which was adopted back in 91st year, and on general military duty and military service, which was adopted in 92nd year. With a view to improving the social protection system of military personnel and their families, bringing these laws to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of providing guarantees to military personnel and members of their families, to the military, who are called upon to teach or test and special congregations, to give them a real opportunity to defend their rights, and so forth. Its standards include legislative regulations, guarantees of state support for military personnel and their families in the legal and social spheres, some of which have been partially lost in recent years, and guarantees of service, such as protection of their rights, health care, medical care, education, and so on. The bill establishes provisions under which the State is obliged to strengthen its concern for the vitality of the listed categories of persons, primarily to strengthen their full support, depending on age, health, and social status. As evidenced by the analysis, the draft law on social protection really needs an immediate resolution at the level of law and a positive step in addressing the problems of conflict and conflict that continue to exist in the field of legislation on the social protection of military personnel and members of their families. This is primarily due to the sharp decline in the prestige of the military service in Ukraine and the need to accelerate the reform of the state’s military organization. The draft law after its completion is supported by the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs, Justice, the State Border Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a result of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate to adopt the first reading, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. The bill is also supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council on Education, Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, on the issue of law enforcement. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine also supports this bill, taking into account its comments and suggestions. The National Security and Defence Committee unanimously supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for Leonid Costinovich? Please sign up if there is. On the board, please show me the name of the National Deputies. Anatoly Orzhachowski, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Leonide Costinovich, well, the level and condition of today's army is well known to us. And we know how the army is financed, which is social protection. That's why I think you're doing exactly what the bill has done. It's worth supporting. But I wanted to ask you. Please tell me, do you believe that our executive power today will finally address the problem that you are raising and will think of appropriate educational, special congregations to provide financial security for people and so on? After all, today the military, starting with school and finishing up the army, has become, and ending with, the service is, indistinguishable. So will the executive find the money after the Supreme Council adopts the relevant bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. Well, you know, really, the issue of social protection of the military is very important. And it needs, in fact, special attention from the State. And this is a huge number of military pensioners' appeals to us, the military, about violations of their rights, especially those relating to social protection. It says that this problem is extremely acute, it stands, it needs to be solved. Well, as to whether the state can provide, I think let's adopt the law, and the executive power is the executive power, it has to implement these laws. And we're going to try to force executive power to enforce these laws. No more questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u24	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u25	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Leonid Arkadievich, of course, I think your bill will take a good step forward with regard to some social protection of the military. But please tell me you're talking about setting up a forty-hour working week for the military, except when they're involved directly in activities where it can't be allowed, well, that's the boat's march, the shooting, well, that's where I can't say I've worked until seven, and then, before I see you, I'm off to rest. But tell me, please, how is this going to compensate people for what they're going to do, well, let's say by day, and not for a week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u26	Well, first of all, a forty-hour working day is defined by the Constitution. It used to be 41 hours ago, and now according to the Constitution, we've done a forty-hour workday. Well, the compensations are the ones that, in fact, the military is a special person, yes. She has a special service because she carries out her duties beyond this forty - hour workday, which is what defines her status as a military person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u27	Leonid Mikhailovich, thank you. Costinovich, thank you, time's up. Dear colleagues, there is a problem in discussing this bill, whether we will accept it as a basis for the Committee to work on it. There's no warning. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on Admission on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Social Protection of Military and Military Obligations, which is designed to teach, or to test special congregations. Registration number 6489, please vote. [[10:36:28]] For 269 There's an offer for factions, please. Decision taken. "Regions of Ukraine" - 43, Communist - 54, National Party - 35, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 24, SPU - 17, National Block - 20, SDPU (o) - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 13, "Trust of the People" - 11, National Movement of Ukraine - 6, "One Ukraine" - 7, "Reforms and Orders" - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, non-fractional - 15. Yes, honourable colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine is under review. [[on the financing of the pension deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the payment of pensions]] Registration number 8589. Reporter: Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs Please sign up, three minutes of motive. Ludmila Pavlovno, one minute, here's a proposition for motive. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u28	The Communist faction, Matthew. Please pass the word to Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u29	Victor Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u30	Mironenko, the Communist faction. I'm on procedure. Please, Vladimir Mihajlovich, after considering this very important law, to put to the vote two extremely important decisions on the Single Economic Area, supported by other factions, social-democrats and the Regions, on the agenda. Because even with the monitoring of the gas negotiations, it is clear that the Government of Ukraine and the President have a wrong position that is not in the interest of the people of Ukraine. Similarly, negotiations on the establishment of the Single Economic Area. In practice, the Government and the President have blocked the creation of a single economic space. Papers are being distributed today that show that the two committees support the introduction of these very important bills and there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u31	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u32	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and voters. There is no doubt that we support the change to the 2005 Pension Fund budget in order to ensure that our pensioners receive adequate pensions in full. But who will answer our questions to our pensioners, which will be literally two weeks later, that is, from January 1st. Will our pensioners receive those pensions, and they are projected to be raised in the 2006 budget, or will they stay with everything that was in 2005?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u33	Yes, Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u34	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Melnik We support, of course, the Pension Insurance Act. But, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the agro-industrial complex. We don't spend any money in the field. Over the last two years, the cost of 1 hectare has increased by about 700 dollars, by about 30%, and there is absolutely no grant in the budget for the sector. Therefore, as a result of such a situation today, we cannot support this present budget, nor can we support the children of war. Not a single one. So in this situation, we have claims. We'd like you to review the budget today, we've got it, and there's no change in the budget for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u35	Yes, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that on Thursday, when the law on amending the budget was passed in the first reading, which we are currently considering, two other bills, 8334 and 8334-2 on the distribution of funds from the “Criminal”. If we vote on this law, we have to realize that the funds that we wanted to give to the people of Ukraine to pay their savings, 10 billion of them will now be redistributed. And the Minister of Finance confirmed it. I would like to ask, according to yesterday's decision of the Conciliation Council, to consider first the bills on the distribution of funds from the “Crucials” that we have decided to use to pay off the debt from the former USSR's savings. This is a very important question. And we're not going to have another option with regard to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u37	Yes, dear fellows, we exchanged various suggestions regarding the Single Economic Space, two regulations. I asked him to give the document now when he was asked to consider the matter. As far as the village is concerned. So what I wanted to remind you is that in the draft budget, additionally for every hectare, if I'm right about it, a billion 700 million, in fact, are already telling me, 2 billion. With regard to the bills on the return of savings on the sale of “Criminals”, the committee, when it prepares, introduces, we will consider. One minute! The committee, please, will bring it in, when it brings it in, we will immediately put it in for consideration, if it is ready today, we will consider it today. Please, Sophia Pavlovna. Nestor Ivanovich, when ready, will then be considered. Let's get him in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In the first reading, you and I have considered the Act amending the State Budget Act, according to which we are transferring from the State Budget an additional grant to the Pension Fund of 1 billion 600 million. As you know, after a substantial increase in pension expenditure, there has been a deficit in the Pension Fund. In order to prevent the payment of the corresponding pensions for our citizens, this bill has been introduced and drafted. After consideration in the first reading during the committee’s session, the commission was to prepare the bill and submit it no later than December 20. Last day, on the day of the committee’s meeting, no additions to the bill were received; the committee supported the text that was presented in the first reading. So it's proposed for your consideration without notice and changes, since it only contains one proposal, in which case we propose to fully support this bill in the second reading and in general. What gives us the opportunity to say that our pensioners won't have any day's delay in pension payments is the adoption of this law. They have already forgotten that such pension payments may not be paid since 1999. As you know, legislation works more or less smoothly. And you and I are making all the necessary decisions to avoid instability, to avoid any fluctuations, or lack of funds, in the Pension Fund. Therefore, with respect to the enormous social significance of this law, I ask that you support it in the Supreme Council Hall and accept it in the second reading and in general. That's also true of the proposals that we've discussed on the budget committee, which corresponds to the proposals that come from the factions. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please put the law to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u39	What, what? It's a second reading. There are no questions before the second reading. Please write down the reasons for the vote, three minutes. Yes, please, on the sign-up table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the Political Party “Regions of Ukraine”, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, dear Ludmila Pavlovna! I think this bill will be supported by the faction. But we wanted, knowing, unfortunately, the negative attitude of today's government officials, it opened up to me for the first time, it's a lie, it's cynicism. We had been warned that this money would not go anywhere else to patch holes. But after we consulted with the Head of the Boris Zajczuk Pension Fund and we were assured, and we listen to them, and we are confident that these funds will really go to correct what the government has been up to in 2005. We've got to be honest and honest about this. When they put their hands into the Pension Fund and other funds. The faction “Ukraine” will therefore support this bill in its second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u41	Sergey Drogunzov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please pass the word to Zybenko Petra.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u43	Thank you, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Cibenko. The faction will certainly support budget changes aimed at completing the Pension Fund because it is impossible for pensioners, veterans, and disabled hostages to make a situation. But I would like to know the government's opinion on this. Why do I ask? Because the government of Ukraine has submitted a draft State Budget, which has recorded a reduction of one and a half percent of the budget of the Pension Fund, and this increases the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. Oh, that's different. Deputy Cibenko and Simonenko have submitted draft laws aimed at limiting the maximum amount of pensions and completing the liquidation of the Pension Fund budget. Thus, the leader of the Reform and Order Party, and by the co-existence of the finance minister, Mr. Pinzenic, was waving his hands out of the government's bed, urging the deputies not to vote for them, which caused me to fear that his hands would be torn off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u44	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u45	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. The MPs of the People's Block of Lithuania supported the bill in the first reading and not only because it was the bill, but because everything aimed at social stability in that country was supported, supported and supported by members of the People's Block of Lithuania. I would like to draw your attention separately, my distinguished colleagues. I appeal to all the deputies who are now serving 15 years of the Pension Fund, the structure that, regardless of what laws we are adopting with you, what orders and regulations the Cabinet of Ministers issue, is mostly women, but they are quick and mobile in carrying out all the tasks they are tasked with, and let us congratulate them. After all, 15 years is a date, work is also a work that is directly linked to people, not anyone. God bless them, and let the Pension Fund continue to function normally. And this bill, I repeat, I am deeply convinced that not only our deputies, but everyone will support it without exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on the financing of the pension deficit of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the payment of pensions]] Registration number 8589. Please vote. [[10:49:53]] For 397 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 has been announced. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 45 of the Budget Code on the specificity of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, we have it and must consider it until we make a positive decision. Please, who is doubtful, read the Codex Budgets. The following procedure is proposed: a report by the finance minister in up to five minutes, an answer to questions within five minutes, a report, more specifically, a report by the chairman of the Committee on Budget Affairs in five minutes, an answer to questions within five minutes, a discussion and a decision-making process within 10 minutes. What are some warnings about such a proposal? None. Please refer to Ukraine’s Minister of Finance, Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please, Your Honor, adjust to have such a successful vote, either from the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u47	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, you were able to further understand the main parameters of the changes to the 2006 State Budget project, prepared together with the Budget Committee for re-reading. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine stresses that the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine were threefold: local budgets, the agricultural sector, and the coal industry. They're all implemented in the budget project. Local budgets have increased by 9 billion dollars, including the global fund by 5.6 billion. The local budgets will directly account for the costs of centralized operations and programs worth 659 million dollars. Nearly 11 percent of the state budget’s non transfers to the Pension Fund are directed towards rural development. Taking into account the refinements made by the Budget Committee, along with the government, the amount of funding to support the production of animal and plant production has increased by 3.3 times to 2 billion dollars. Yesterday, we also agreed on a detailed edition of the use of 1 billion dollars to lend intensive agriculture to the APC. The increase in coal industry support costs is 900 million dollars. During our work on the project in recent days, we agreed on the proposals made in this room regarding the construction of the Podil Bridge Passage and the Kiev Metro, supporting some of the projects of the National Academy of Sciences. The budget deficit remained stable at 12.9 billion dollars, or 2.5 percent of GDP. Saving the budget balance is achieved through the congregation’s purchase and sale of currency and some other income and expenditure. The final version of the tax reduction proposals next year looks like this. The earnings fund is reduced by 1 percent, the customs assembly is cancelled from the time of the entry into the WTO, the collection of purchases and the sale of currency is reduced from 1.5 percent to 1.3 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has already stressed the risks of the 2006 budget. They refer to Ukraine’s critical budget deficit of 2.5 percent and its structure. These risks have, unfortunately, only increased as a result of the development of the draft budget in recent days. This raises very difficult problems with its execution. At the same time, we are aware of the critical need for the country to live under an approved budget. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine agreed with these changes, realizing that without the approval of the budget from the first January of the following year, it is impossible to raise the minimum wage and pension rate by two and a half, three and a half times the pension of the first group, participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl station, 50 per cent of the disability pension for members of the term service, and implement other social programs. The adoption of the budget is also needed to significantly increase the financial resources of local budgets, increase the support of the agricultural sector and the coal industry. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has agreed to the proposals of the Budget Committee, including the proposals of the last days, and proposes to support this uncomplicated, compromise budget and vote in favour of it in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the Minister's report has been completed. If so, please write down for five minutes. Please put on the screen the name of the national MPs who are enrolled. Ludmila Kirichenko, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u49	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! You know, every time I listen to you, I'm just amazed at that fairy tale you're telling. The last budget we agreed to accept was just as good a story. You said there would be 10 percent GDP growth, you said the inflation rate would be nine percent. Today, after 11 months, we have a negative result of GDP growth -- 2.7 per cent minus. Inflation growth is 15 per cent. By the end of the year, 20%. And today you're telling us that you're going to give a lot of money to local budgets, to the coal industry, to agriculture. That's all very well, but where do you get that money from? You don't have a basis for that. Therefore, the faction “Regions of Ukraine” will not vote in favour of the ephemeral budget that you represent here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u50	First of all, I wasn't talking about inflation or GDP. That's what you were talking about. And secondly, it was about the same conversation in March of this year, when it was a very difficult budget to get out of that deadlock when the previous government didn't pay the pension payments. But today I inform you that the country's budget has been implemented. And it's done with income and all the social programs, all the tasks that we've set out in this budget, are done and will be funded by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u51	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u52	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you are the minister of finance for the government of capitalist ministers. Please tell me, who set a critical limit of 2.5% on the budget deficit? We know, we all know how the budget is being implemented, from the start, the government is hiding all the income, and then, to be the top of the white horse and to be the big winner, it shows such an increase in the revenue of the budget that you're giving a miracle. And once again, let me make it clear, which institution, national, or non-national in the form of, for example, an international currency fund has set the limit of 2.5%. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u53	First, I wanted you to find at least one year, or one government that increased the budget's income by 67% in one year. At the planned rate of 62, we've increased these incomes by taxes. With less VAT being stolen, we have the added tax revenue increased twice this year, with full compensation, by the end of the year we will be fully committed to paying back the added tax. I don't know what the International Monetary Fund is, which is what Yuri Solomonin mentioned, a distinguished national MP, but I'd like to explain a simple thing. If the budget income is 100 billion and the expenditure is 110 billion, then 10 billion is a deficit in the budget, exceeding the expenditure. A simple question arises. There are two instruments to repay it -- either to borrow and live in debt, or, on the other hand, to come from privatization. [[And that means that every Ukrainian citizen will pay interest on this debt.]] The greater the budget deficit, the more we get into our citizens' pockets. It is best to live without budget deficits so that income and expenditure are cohesive. The magnitude of the deficit is a direct price increase. The higher the deficit, the higher the prices. So you don't have to go to different organizations here, including the ones you named. There's a simple logic to the economy that dictates this behavior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u54	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u55	Dear Victor Mikhailovich. People's deputies of the Volodymyr Litvin People's bloc have managed to find an understanding with you at a number of very important moments for us. This is by local budgets and by changing the budget usage format for the APC. In particular, two billion are allocated to a direct subsidy per hectare of sowing and a kilogram of animal production. We are grateful for our understanding of our position. However, you are well aware that this cost, especially for peasants, is not enough. What do you see, when we can hope, a Ukrainian village, that there will be a European producer grant in the budget to make us competitive in the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u56	Dear Catherine Timothy. Indeed, we have reached many positions of harmonized budget standards. Although this was not easy for us. But the answer is given in your question. We'll be able to do that when we get close to the economics and incomes of the budget. Because we have to get out of what our economy gives in terms of revenue and share the real resource. Because it's very bad if we divide more than we actually get, because then someone gets real money, and someone has only a line in the budget, and they don't get real funding. So this is the maximum possible limit that we have now reached, and as the economy develops, we will respond to other problems in the development of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u57	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, the head of the committee. Please call Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, let me briefly report on the results of the committee's work on the basis of the drafting of the State Budget 2006 Act, which we have discussed with you in our second reading. Dear colleagues, we have had the main issues concerning the financing of the APC, the financing of aid under the law on the social protection of children of war. We, taking into account the suggestions that were made in the hall during the discussion of this document and in accordance with the committee's decisions, developed this law. Dear colleagues, I want to make your point that if we don't vote on this law, it doesn't go back to the Cabinet of Ministers, it stays here. At the same time, the 2005 Budget Act is in force, but there are limitations. And this is the second argument that I want to make about what we absolutely need to adopt the State Budget 2006 Act. First, the State budget expenditure can only be incurred within one twelfth of the 2005 expenditure. It's different. You and I have almost 30 billion dollars in development expenditure in the State Budget Act 2006. If this law is not adopted, no amount of this expenditure will be financed. And these are the funds that we've been transferring to local budgets in the form of subsidies for investment projects, for socio-economic development of areas, for the construction of schools, hospitals, for the acquisition of equipment, for the implementation of the huge Drinking Water program, which we are finally implementing with you in accordance with the proposals supported by the committee during the drafting of the law directly in the Committee and in the Supreme Council. We're not going to be able to introduce other subsidies, subsidies for the population, for example: financing for the construction of metropolises, financing for Kharkiv, Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk, totalling almost 200 million dollars, we can't finance the construction of the Odessa Opera Theatre and so on. Well, and of course, since there will be no government orders, to some extent we'll be with you, so we'll have an impact, because of the non-admission of the law, on stopping the economy. In addition, it should be noted that the non-admission of the State Budget Act 2006 could lead to the creation of a budget debt from social benefits at the beginning of the year. There is another detail that I cannot help but pay attention to: taxes and congregations, other revenues will be managed in accordance with the State Budget Act for the previous budget period. But all other articles will not work. And that means that we can completely balance the economy. Moreover, we will not be able to support with you our own proposals to increase the minimum wage, increase the minimum pension size, increase the standard of living, and, of course, this will lead to the impossibility of improving the lives of citizens. I want to say that we found a compromise in the committee on the implementation of the Children of War Act. It's the next one. As you know, the government has agreed to implement certain parameters of this law. This is primarily about article 5, and the last argument we had was housing-communal benefits. Since the law gives children the right to pay a 25 - percent discount directly to war children. We've added 200 million money, and given the economy, essentially, 300 million dollars that we've anticipated, and how can we increase the price of energy inside a subsidy to pay this kind of aid to the population, we're actually going to have 200 plus 300 dollars for the children of war -- about 500 million dollars to provide for the cost of that income. With regard to our proposal under article 6, this is about increasing pensions and pensions, and we propose a separate rule that provides that the law on the social protection of children of war in part 6 should be put into effect during 2006 on the basis of a review by the Cabinet of Ministers of the relevant normative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u59	Allow me to complete the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u60	Thus, as a result of the implementation of the budget in the first half of 2006, the law contains a proposal from the government to review and phase out the implementation of this article. I'm asking you to support this bill on the adoption of the State Budget Act 2006 because, in this way, you and I will give stability to the economy and we will be able to support social benefits for the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Report completed. Question, five minutes. Please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Hapoczka, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u62	May I have a word with Bronnikov?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u63	Vladimir Bronnikov, microphone, please. Andrew Poliyet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u64	Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozje. Ludmila Pavlovna, you may have spoken about the prospect of economic growth. I don't know who the institution has confirmed that we have and are expected to grow the economy. In its report, the Institute for the Common Economy of Ukraine at the General Assembly of the Academy of Sciences confidently states that, in those gas projections, we are entering the hottest economic stop in 2006. And the crisis we've had will seem like nuts to us. Therefore, we are sure that we are talking to you only about the budget for meals. And in this regard, the worse the 2005 budget is in the context of non-economic growth in budget projections
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u65	The fact is that the 2005 and 2006 budgets are now very different from night to day, and the 2006 development expenditure is almost 30 billion. It's not the law that made the Cabinet of Ministers in the first reading, it's the one that's been worked out with the profile committee on budget issues, at your suggestion of factions a new text, and it's practically a new budget. And the government has agreed with all of our suggestions, because they are perfectly reasonable. As for Volodymyr Kirilovich, a direct forecast for economic growth. I didn't call the numbers, but if we take this budget, we're going to have an economic growth, because from this budget it's going directly to the cost that will support this growth of the economy. The 2005 budget does not allow for this. And if we leave it in action, we really don't get more than 2.5 percent. I can tell you, Vladimir Kirilovich, and another observation. Unfortunately, this year’s government has completely neglected our proposals and the 2005 law and has not funded such important expenses as the growth of the economy, such as computerization, because the funds used are only 27 percent of the total money we have given them, and schools have run out of computers. Only 6 percent of the funds used by the Ministry of Education and Science for the purchase of buses for rural areas and other funds were not actually funded by domestic automobile companies. And I can call these examples, not tens, but hundreds. Under these conditions, it's clear that the economy will slow down. To prevent that from happening, we need to adopt the law and strictly control the government to do so. I think it's probably not this one, it's the next one, so he's clearly fulfilling the requirements of the law. Otherwise, even our best wishes and our best laws will remain unfulfilled, and the economy will continue to fall, not evolve.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u66	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u67	Andrey Politt, Company faction. I ask you to pass the word to Ekaterina Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u68	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Ludmila Pavlovna! The blackmail is inappropriate, as they say, so it is not necessary to mislead people from the rostrum. That's not gonna buy us any more. Second. Please tell me where the article was consolidated to the Ministry of Youth for Health? I know you've decided to divide these costs into subsidies to regions. This means that Chernobyl children from the Chernobyl area will have to be cured exclusively in the Blackwater zone. Who needs such a cure? Next. What I'm wondering is, how is the youth housing program going to be carried out? It does not match the parameters set. I want to know why the article on creation, subsidies, has disappeared, more faithfully, to create the first job for young people who have completed their jobs and who have completed their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u70	Yes, please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u71	Dear Catherine Semenovna, I can say that for young people we did not increase the cost. But when we create a government mortgage, we transfer two billion dollars to finance such a building. This means that the loans that are going to be given today in 2006 are not going to be the same as now under 18 or 16 percent, yes, 20, they're just crazy amounts, and we're spending the state budget on free compensation. We offered you, with your committee, a whole new system. And now in this budget, she's found a reflection. The idea is that funding for youth housing will be done, including at the expense of government mortgages of at least 2 billion dollars and at the rate of interest that meet European standards. And that's our main goal, because we can't afford 20 million and 30 million to meet all our needs. There is the principle of injustice in the distribution of public funds. This proposal is transformed in such a way that we give all those who want it, in accordance with legislation, and we give the right resources to do so. As far as funding the Chernobyl programs are concerned, as you know, we are. on recovery, all the funds allocated for recovery, not only have not been recovered, are increased. We've increased by 20 million dollars. Catherine Sergiyevna, 20 million dollars of treatment for children with tuberculosis and other somatic diseases, so we only increased the amount of money, not the reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Ludmila Pavlovna, you're running out of time. More, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention. The chairman of the committee will once again stop at the reference points, the main points contained in the completed project. Please make clear that Ludmila Pavlovna is subsidizing local budgets, the APC, children of war. So everyone can make a conscious choice. These are the lower points around which the discussions are taking place. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The budget that is being proposed for your consideration today deals with the following issues. I'm going to talk about the main parameters that we've defined in the budget conclusions that were supported by our budget resolution. First. Subsidies for local budgets have been increased by 5 billion dollars of direct money and 4 billion dollars additionally, i.e. only 9 billion dollars to local budgets. That's the first one. Secondly, almost 900 million dollars have been allocated directly to the coal sector. In doing so, taxes are reduced by tax on the “nadra fee” of 120 million dollars. Third. As for the APC expenditure. As you know, this budget contains a direct subsidy rule for the village, it's written for the first time as a subsidy for sown hectares and a subsidy per kilogram of farmed livestock. The total amount of such a grant, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is equal to two billion dollars. In the previous draft budget, the amount planned for this grant amounted to 683 million dollars. In addition, spending on the APC and on the social sphere of the village has increased by almost one billion dollars in total, as this relates to local road costs. You know, we've increased the funds that are passed on to roads of local importance. We have increased by 500 million subsidies, at least 40 percent of which are directed directly to social development and support for the village. Thus, rural and APC expenditure in general exceeds 10 percent of the government budget’s income. And I can say that this year we actually have a record amount of funding for the APC, and a new principle of funding that will actually allow without interference from government officials, without having to ask their bribes to finance the village in the direction that we've determined with you budget conclusions, that is, through treasury, on the sown hectare and on the farmed kilograms of livestock. As for the comments made during the previous session. They are all taken into account and reflected in the text that we added to the State Budget Act. The children of war. The committee's proposal is as follows: we've included those categories that use housing benefits, children of war. And this supplement is made to part of the first article 48.1, where after listing all the categories of benefits, “children of war” has been added. In addition, we added another additional article, which relates to the following article. This is article 101.4. It reads: “To establish that the benefits of the children of war provided for in paragraph 7 of Article 5 — that is, housing services — are introduced in a phased manner in 2006 in the order determined by the Cabinet, in agreement with the Committee on Budget Affairs. Third. In order to provide funding for this benefit, we have a special chapter in expenses, called benefits and subsidies for housing and utilities. And the amount that is added to this program is 200 million dollars. I could say that when we've determined the amount of money on this program, we've anticipated at the same time a possible increase in the cost of residential services, as we do in the way we did in 2005 and this stock of strength is almost 300 million dollars. Thus, towards the payment of housing services for a category such as children of war, which is already legally included in the aid system, will be directed at an additional, almost 500 million dollars. We don't have the exact calculations today, it's called, the figure varies in size to about 600 million dollars, so we think that at this point, 500 million dollars will give us the opportunity to run an appropriate allowance for children under the law on the social protection of children of war as of 1 January 2006. As far as another aspect of this Law is concerned, this is Article 6, namely, the pension allowance, the honourable colleagues, is a huge problem. Because the law completely unfairly distributes the funds between the two categories. Listen to this information very carefully. If there is a father born before September 1, 1927, and he has a child born by January 1, 194, until September 1, 1945, they will have completely inadequate allowances. The father will receive 82 bracelets, and the child will receive 82 bracelets as part of the war because he is likened to a status and another 105 bracelets as a child of war. So one is 80, and the other is almost 200. In order to properly bring this Act into line, we propose that we do this: we have a special article in the law that, after the implementation of the 2006 budget, after the first half of the government, the government implements this law so that we can make calculations because we don't have them, and bring them into line with the principles of social justice to finance such payments for the status of children of war. These proposals are contained in our law. That is, an additional category has been introduced through which “children of war” are introduced. It is designed to finance this category of people with almost 500 million bills for residential services, in addition to financing transport costs not only by ordinary transport but also by inter-urban transport. And this benefit was not given to war veterans or to such citizens. We added 100 million, it's in agreement with the government, and he made these proposals for a second read. And there are two articles that I have just delivered to you. So the basic parameters that relate to the adoption of this law, which are fixed in the budget conclusions, are defined here with you. And I want to make another point. What I don't see as an expert, I don't take as an expert the notion that this is a critical level of deficit. We have a low deficit in the country. And it has appropriate sources of coverage. I repeat that I have set a standard for European countries of three percent. And we have less than three, that's 2.5. So there are no risks to the economy in this case, there are no risks. And I'm asking no one to speculate. For all of us will be comforted by the nations of Europe. We have a normal level of deficit, it corresponds to the pace of development of Ukraine, and we have no right now not to provide incentives for the economy because of the development costs that we have with you, honourable colleagues working on this law, determined for the following year 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please, Ludmila Pavlovno. Have a seat. Ludmila Pavlovno, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. Let's sign up now. This is the second reading, we can't have this discussion. I'm proposing now. Now let's take 10 minutes with the motivation to vote so that we can express our position. Let's write it down on the basis of the vote. Ten minutes, please. And invite the deputies to the session room, and we'll have to make a responsible decision. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u75	Please pass the word to your colleague Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u76	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u77	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, we can only marvel at this manic perseverance. With which some political forces and government are trying to extend this defective budget. We don't need to twist our hands, especially blackmail, because the promise that there will be no budget and that they won't be able to finance social programs from all over the government sounds cynical at all. But we don't support him, this budget. He is not supported by our voters. Especially Zaporozhye. They vote against it, vote against it, vote against it, vote against it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it, vote on it. The budget is not development; it is an electoral budget, and that is why we will never vote for it. We don't need to be blackmailed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u78	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u79	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Indeed, we are making an extremely important decision today. But I would like to say, even though it's important when the budget is being adopted, it's even more important which budget is being adopted. On behalf of the 15 million Ukrainian citizens under the committee, I would like to draw attention to some things. A lot of issues that this budget does not solve. First, the rate of growth of the subsistence minimum for non-working people, which is based on retirement today, is significantly, indeed, going to be much smaller than it is today. That's the first one. Second, there is no solution to the problem of eliminating the imbalance in the pension insurance of military personnel, since there is article 38-1. It should be said that the suspended set of rules of the law on the status of war veterans, the guarantee of social protection. Four. You listened to Ludmila Pavlovna speak in detail about the children of war, but there were a lot of problems that could not be solved. I'm not talking about that anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u80	Basil Nadrag, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u81	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I am absolutely in solidarity with all those who say that the problem in this budget is more than enough on social issues, and I would like to say that there are also a lot of issues in the army. But on the other hand, there's probably a point to look at what, for example, there's already an industrial 2 billion-dollar grant complex there, and that's a normal step forward. According to local budgets, 9 billion more funding is going and so is normal. But I think today, speaking of which budget is to be adopted or not adopted, we still have to look for the following thing, in this case, I want to address the Cabinet of Ministers, that we support this budget, but with one component, you will definitely assume some responsibility, responsibility for the introduction of the Children of War Act in 2006, so that there will be no discussion later that we do not understand how to do this, because we have voted by members who do not know what to do. In general, by taking stock of the collective responsibility of both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers for the fact that the budget was held, and we did not translate the arrows, we did not tell them that we did not know what they were voting for in Grusevski, we were at home.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u82	Igor Yukhnovsky, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u83	Yukhnovsky, “Our Ukraine” faction. As a veteran, as a participant in the battles of the Great Homeland War, I still wanted to say about the "Children of War" Act. There are many paradoxes here, one born after June 21, 1927 -- a child of war born in 1926 -- is no longer a child of war, who in 1925 is no longer a child of war born before 1945, that child of war, who is already in October, is no longer a child of war. So I think this law is raw, although maybe people need help, but not everyone, and that's why this law needs to be worked out. So I support this progressive introduction of this law into our budget. That's the first one. The other one. What I'd like to say is that the funds that come from privatizing the Crevice Mining Plant should still be used to mitigate the gas price increase that will be for our enterprises. This is a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u84	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u85	Thank you. I would like to point out that the Budget Act, it has been said a lot about him that he is unsocial and we have not talked about this once. It's a law that, if the previous budgets were called food budgets, it's a budget for malnutrition. And I don't know what's going to be better in this situation. There are virtually no social types of the population. And when it is said that the Movement must move forward, the “Pore” must go so quickly as not to ruin people on the road. But most of all, I was impressed that this budget does not provide a penny for the city of Lviv. We should be celebrating the 750th anniversary of Lviv next year. This money is just not budgeted. I realize that the city of Lviv is a smaller monument to architecture than the city of Tsurupinsk, I have great respect for Tsurupinsk, I have not been there once, in the Hersonian region. But then I suggest, if the city of Lviv is not needed, that we compare it to the ground, build a lot of large-scale buildings there, sell, make money on it, and finance other needs and government, and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u86	Instead of Michael Melniczuk, Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The question is fundamental. And you don't have to use the argument in today's debate about what, you see, there are different pension conditions for people who were born at different times. Today, the project proposed by the government does not address the issue of the retirement of war children. And it only touches one article -- utility payments, utility benefits. Therefore, the faction insists that the figure of 700 million should be clearly recorded for these needs, requiring the government to regulate the manner in which such expenditure is to be made, including by recording the total expenditure on subsidies. And then we can consider the question of voting. If that's not the case, well, at least 30 million dollars to build a student town in Kiev, to at least make a signal to the society that we're going to protect the student population, without that faction voting can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u88	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! We just spoke again to have a successful vote with the Head of the Budget Committee, I'm afraid to speak with the government. The proposal is simple: to increase the deficit by 0.1 percent is 500 million, and we're going to close this whole problem. But if we make a successful decision. Nestor Shufric, please, faction (the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine (United States).
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's talk about budget deficits and what this is for the country. Even in 2004, when economic growth was more than 10 per cent, we could not afford to drive the country into the Cabal. Believe me, I really wanted to look beautiful and smart, but we did accept the responsible budget that we were implementing, and that really ensured that wages and pensions were raised. What do we see today? Even in the preparation of the budget for second reading, the financing of the force structures is increasing, Ukraine's accession programmes to NATO and even those poor children of war have allocated only 200 million and the Ministry of the Interior 250 million. These are the priorities of the orange deformed power. Who's gonna pay for all this? Prices will rise if the budget is adopted, and all these costs will be borne by the people of Ukraine. We're against the bankruptcy budget. We don't want today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u90	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u91	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Our faction is not fully established by the positions reflected in the 2006 budget project on financing subsidies for investment projects for gasification of rural areas, for the construction of rural educational institutions, for the development of Ukrainian culture. The Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian State, for projects relating to the proper financing of the Ukrainian armed forces, for the financing of intelligence expenditure, out of time. These positions, as a party, as the Ukrainian People's Party, do not allow us to take full advantage, unfortunately. But we realize that it's better to have a slightly worse budget than nothing. And this budget can be adjusted after the results of the 2006 parliamentary elections. That is why we tend to be repulsive, but to vote for it. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u92	Mikola Porovski, “Trust of the People”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u93	Mikola Porovski, “Trust of the People”, Republic Christian Party. Dear fellow MPs, believe me, from the experience of participating in the Supreme Council, I will share with you the sensation that there is no limit to the perfection of the budget. And here's the dilemma: either we accept the budget with some existing shortcomings and we'll be able to make changes and additions to it next year, and to the children of war, and to increase subsidies to agriculture, and to improve energy conservation issues in the budgetary sphere, which I have repeatedly referred to as the head of the committee. And so to improve the budget or to turn all of this into an endless process of reconciliation and get a much worse budget last year by seven billion less with local budgets. The People's Trust Group supports the budget and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, for reasons of vote, we have concluded our speeches. Ludmila Pavlovna is now offering the latest comments that have just been made. I would only ask that on the way, the government don't regenerate. Please invite the national deputies to the session room, and we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u95	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I want to address those national MPs who asked questions from the BUT faction, from the faction of the SDPU(o) and others. We've allocated funds to Lviv, and this city will be able to prepare for 750 years. This sum is 50 million. That's right. And these are direct funds that remain directly, Andrew School, and that's exactly what I'm saying to him, directly to the city of Lviv. This is the second year in a row we've passed on such a special subsidy. Secondly, Nestor Ivanovich, when it comes to assessing the bill, is very difficult to give. And today, at a committee meeting, the committee members just pointed out that it's hard for you to get a sense of where you are, because you've only been visiting a fraction of the meetings, and you have to work on the budget practically every day, and you have to evaluate it adequately, and I think it's difficult for you. As far as offerings for children of war are concerned. Once again, the cost of housing services, which we can reduce by 25 percent for this category of citizens, is 200 million and 300 million, which is only 500. If it's about adjusting to 700 million, right? – so I suggest that I make adjustments for the corresponding small adjustment of deficits and under-performing of NAKU on the basis of rent payments under the general fund. And in addition, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are two other clarifications that relate to the determination of the size of the rent. This is about determining the rate of the state for October of the month and the direct proportional dependency for the corresponding adjustment coefficients. And so is the request. At the request of the factions, we have two kinds of expenses, these are for college towns of 20 million and at the suggestion of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the People's Movement, the restoration of the corresponding amount for cinematography. So we can just adjust these things based on those two sources that I told you about. And under these conditions, I'm sure we'll have balanced indicators and we'll be able to adopt this law today in second reading and in general. Please put these proposals to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u96	Ludmila Pavlovna! Well, they're already talking about college, 20 million. They're talking about college. Ludmila Pavlovna, how much budget deficit are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u97	Well, this sum, if we take NAC's under-nutrition into account, it shouldn't exceed 0.1 percent. We think it's going to be 0.006 percent. I mean, it's a little adjustment and I'm sure the government can agree to that proposal. We have two sources, we're going to figure out which ones we're going to correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u98	Alexander Moroz and Nestor Shufrich raised their hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u99	I have a question for Ludmila Pavlovna. But, more specifically, the offer to Vladimir Mikhailovich. So let's do this correction that you're saying right now, separately, we're going to vote where the 700 on utility payments is going to sound, on the benefit of the children of war. And then you write the formula. There's 20 for college towns and stuff. Then it will be possible to believe that this will not be lost when preparing the final text of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u100	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u101	I made that offer very clear. We have an exact standard for children of war. I said the exact amount. And I'm sure if we support this proposal, we'll adequately reflect it in the State Budget Act. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, about the final figure for the deficit adjustment and the amount of the rent, I'm just out of numbers right now and I can't tell you. But the fact that we're not going to add other expenses, but just to the amount that I've called, we're going to put adequate numbers into the revenue and expenditure, so according to our stenogram, that's exactly what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u102	Nestor Schuffritch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues! The United Social Democrats have worked fruitfully in the work of the Budget Committee, but from the outset they have paid attention to a terrible budget deficit. And in order to cover this deficit, we're convinced that there's another option than printing money, which is going to mean raising prices, there's not going to be any other source. Budget responsibility, price rise our faction will not bear. And everyone who today votes in favour of this budget should understand that it is responsible for a real price increase as a result of the adoption of this budget. Never in the history of an independent Ukraine have we adopted a budget with such a deficit. And you're increasing this deficit by half a billion dollars today. It's irresponsible because people will pay for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u104	Dear Nestor Ivanovich, we don't increase any inflation rates because the mechanism in the budget provides for a very clear system of price retention. And this system is called subsidies for the manufacturer. There will be no price fluctuations for sugar, for meat, for grain, if we adopt this Law and it will be accurate in the interests of the people and keep inflation low.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u105	Matvienkov, please. Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u106	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I will ask you to calm down and listen carefully. Ludmila Pavlovna, we did not accept the budgets we were talking about here, not with this level of deficit, and we experienced this. It's not that, I'm concerned today, and it's not just me who's shaping or who's providing the income part of the budget for the two issues. Question one: we understand that the budget is VAT, profit tax and income tax. These are the major whales on which the budget is kept. At what prices is gas calculated today? We planned a profit today. Today we planned to have a cost-effective, profitable part of the budget. Who will answer us today: How can we view the income today? What are the benefits of working so far? We increase the price by 3.5 times the price per nadra plus everything. Instead of stimulating our own gas production and getting out of this situation, we increase our rent by 60 percent or 70 percent for our own gas production. So, where's the logic? I don't understand. We are in a very serious situation. How do we plan the work mechanism today? What kind of income are we going to have? What are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u107	Yes, thank you. Ludmila Pavlovna,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u108	I'll try, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u109	Ludmila Pavlovna, you don't have to, well, that's an answer to the government, that's not for the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u110	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u111	Please, Assadchev, it's not an evening of answers, questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear friends, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the deficit is an inflation stimulus. And this budget already has an overburdened deficit. 2.5 is a huge deficit. We can't increase it because people don't get money or the same children of war. They get papers. So if someone offers 700 million, let's give 700 million dollars. Please have extra revenue, extra expenses, and the balance that is now in place. We're definitely against increasing the budget deficit, we're definitely against raising inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u113	Yes, please, Les Tanjuk, then Vaszczuk and Karmazin, and all, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u114	Ludmila Pavlovno, I very much ask you to clarify your position on film. Because of the association, Ilyenko began to starve. What we're going to do is we're going to say exactly what we're going to do is we're going to put the 30 million that were taken out of the movie.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u115	Dear Mr. Forest, I didn't want to raise that question. But, frankly, as this year's ministry has dealt with cinematography, it's a mistreatment of the cinematographer in general. Because the unused money to this day, and they're all distributed by other programs, there's no list of relevant movies that will make, no tenders, nothing. And I ask you to pay attention to this careless attitude of the government. As for the program, I said, we're restoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Yes, Vasuk, please. It is we, when we discuss government activities, evaluate them, then we will consider the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u117	Dear Ludmila Pavlovno, last night on the budget committee, our faction, in support of the increase in assimilation against children of war, asked the committee to consider the following situation. That if this is just focused on municipal payments, the children of the city’s war will somehow be reflected, and the children of the rural war will be forgotten. So I'm asking you very much on behalf of our faction, the Lithuanian block, to take into account what you promised yesterday, an equal distribution so that all children of war will receive the same support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u118	Dear Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u120	Yuri Carmazin. I will ask you to accept this budget, Ludmila Pavlovno, but for me, please explain two questions. The first question is whether we're going to have, or not, the situation that we're looking at Project 8373 on improving the tax base that hasn't been accepted yet and is now budgeted, and we're already basing our incomes on it, or whether this situation has not been implemented now, because I haven't found any changes that have now been handed down to us by your committee. We were just told during your report. It's just so you know. And the second. There's a question about the implementation of the Ukrainian Capital Act, the city of Kiev, on the accrual of the General Fund of the State Budget, 100% of the income tax on enterprises, which, you know, is legally bound to refer to the budget of Kiev, 100%, and now it's a different issue. What does the committee think about this? Is the law going to be ignored? And how are we, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u121	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Ludmila Pavlovno, let's re-emphasize the children of a war that concerns everyone and we will put to the vote. Clear, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u122	I'll do my best very briefly. For Carmazin. 8373 didn't count here, we didn't take it to the income base. With regard to the city of Kiev, all amounts of money should be left under law. We don't have this law fully implemented, so it might be possible to take into account at least a partial repayment of the loan subsidy, which is made on the basis of a 100 million-dollar guarantee for Kiev, but so far, I can say, the context that 8373 is not included in our income. There's no warning here. After the children of war, I told them everything. I can repeat that we counted in the textual section where children of war are treated as a category with benefits. We're going to have funding for subsidies and subsidies for residential services specifically for a category of 200 war children, based on the latest proposals, 300 inside the subsidy, and 200 million today in the hall, so the total amount of almost 700 million dollars. And the order in which these subsidies are distributed, and spending must be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. We're ready as a committee to control it, we've written down a rule that, according to our committee, there will be no redefinitions of the village, uncontrollable. So that everything will be as it is according to the principles of justice. Please uphold the law, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u123	Ludmila Pavlovna, 500 for housing, 100 for transportation, is 600.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u124	No, no. That's the way language works. 200 and 300, that's 500 and 200 million, which is now being proposed to be added to the income or deficit adjustment. Well, I think that's probably it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u125	What about transportation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u126	One hundred million already sit in the budget itself. So that's what we've taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u127	So there's 500, 100 and 200. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote. May I have your attention, please? On adoption in second reading and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006, the registration number is 8,000, taking into account the proposals that have just been made by the head of the committee and supported by all of you. Please vote. Dear colleagues, vote with a sense of disgust, but vote, please. Please vote. [[11:49:31]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions. Please. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, National Party - 40, "Our Ukraine" - 42, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 26, National Block - 16, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Trust of the People" - 15, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Reforms and Orders" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 10, non-fractional - 15. Dear colleagues, article 46 of the Code of Budgets, I read as long as you think. If, before the start of the new budget period, the State Budget Act of Ukraine has not become effective, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to implement the expenditure of the State Budget of Ukraine in accordance with this article of the Code with the following restrictions: - expenditure on the State budget of Ukraine may be incurred only for the purposes set out in the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the previous budget period and at the same time provided for in the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for the next budget period submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council; - the monthly expenditure of the State budget may not exceed 1/12 the amount of expenditure determined by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the previous budget period, except in the cases foreseen in time 4 in article 15 and in part 4 in article 23 of this Code; - until the adoption of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the current budget period, capital expenditure is prohibited, in addition to situations related to the conduct of war or state of emergency, the declaration of individual areas by areas of exceptional environmental situation. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take another look. We're going to explain, there's politics here, it's a pre-election period, but we've been pinning the country on uncertainty for six months. Because we're talking about the children of war, the projected funds, we've come to an agreement. Six billion for local authorities, we're giving subsidies. Well, we can't make a better budget. Whoever comes to the elections wins, will form a coalition in parliament, will form a government, please, let them accept the budget higher, better, even though I understand it will be worse. Dear National Deputies! Let's move away from politics, from the feeling that this is a government budget. Let's understand that the country needs the budget. Well, bad budget. Then let's give estimates for a bad budget. But let's make the right decisions. In order to return to the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006, registration number eighty-two zeros, please vote. Please, let's go back to the study, look for other expenses. Please let me vote. [[11:52:42]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Please, Prime Minister, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! You don't accept the budget, you're putting us in quite such difficult financial conditions for the people's economy. For the first time, the Supreme Council, together with the government, solved serious, problematic issues that primarily concern local budgets, then an agro-industrial complex. We've solved all the problems in the coal sector. There is no reason not to vote for this budget except for political ones. And I very much ask you, on behalf of the government, to allow us to work properly. Because, as Jaroslav Davidovich said, we do not even have the right to finance the printing of ballot papers. I'm asking you very much, my fellow Members, we've gone to all the compromises that people's deputies have asked of us, we've solved all these issues. Please vote for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u131	Please write down five minutes of motive. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled for their motives. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u132	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. You know, I have a tough situation. I have deep respect for Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, and I remember how much good he has done to Ukraine’s hostess, but today when Ukraine’s national farming has been stagnant by the government’s efforts, what are we talking about today? Listen. Whether or not there will be, we'll pass a separate law, we'll print a budget. There's nothing to worry about, there's absolutely no argument. It was no accident that I heard orange screams. Don't yell at me, I've seen you in the grave, I'm not afraid or afraid. I declare my clear position. For this budget we will not vote, do not twist our hands or blackmail us especially with the elements of the hall's deception, it's not true. If there's an argument, let's speak the argument language, but not the blackmail language.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u133	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u134	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u135	Katerina Samuelk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u136	Thank you very much. Dear voters! I want to say that the bill that we are proposing today is not really a project of our future state. Break it, don't break it, I want Yuri Ivanovich to see the young. Where is she in this budget? Where is funding for the creation of the first jobs? Where is the increase in funding for young people’s construction? I want to ask you, what are these projects? Money follows children for the city of Kiev. Is it possible to predict this money for a single line of healing? We know that 80 percent of young people are sick. I want to know where our tourist destination is. How to vote in favour of the draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u137	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u138	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, the idea here was to speak the language of argument. The argument is: we are not adopting a budget today, as of January 1, unless stagnation, but in any case there will be no development, all will stop: minimum pensions, minimum wages, social payments and all that exists today and may exist. I would like to say that today, and again, we have added nine billion to local budgets, but today we find that the Cabinet of Ministers is still taking responsibility for the introduction of the Children of War Act. Let's not get completely out of here on January 1st. Therefore, based on this logic, we have the sense to make a budget, so regardless of political sympathy, antipathies, elections and re-elections since the first January, life in that country should not stop regardless of who loves politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u139	Lilia Grigorovich, microphone, please, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u140	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! For the first time in history, we have 3.6 percent of GDP for health care. It's a positive precedent that's just never happened before. I would like to thank both the People's Pawnee Suprun and the Committee on Budgets for the fact that all the articles and the requirements of the National Deputies have been prepared so conscientiously and so carefully. Why didn't Parliament vote? Answer one: The desire of a political rematch for each other or for others, as one national MP said yesterday -- if you're a fool, you're doing the wrong thing. So, honourable national MPs, I want to address you, especially those who care about winning the election. No one here breaks the MPs through their knees, it's the deputies in this room who break the interests of their Ukrainian people because of their knees. What about the election? Beyond the walls of Parliament, they see and understand. I turn to those who did not vote for the budget but prepared it. Friends! You've already lost the election. Think about it and correct your situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u141	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u142	I want to remind you that there are still problems in the budget financing the development of Ukrainian. But, you see, that's not a lot of people interested. I ask you to pass the word to Yuri Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u143	To whom, to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u144	Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u145	Please, National Deputy Crook.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! The Julia Timoshenko Bloc faction, Kruk. Last Tuesday, the President of Ukraine was in Odessa, and there was a very serious issue of support for the construction of the national fleet, including the Ukrainian Danube Shipping, which suffered from the war in Yugoslavia, and I do not talk about this once in the Supreme Council. Over the past two years, 16 million have been allocated to the construction of the fleet. Regrettably, words remain. IV 2006 budget for the construction of the fleet for the Ukrainian Danube.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. To separate the budget and what the country needs from the view of the government, we're not going to put it all together. And again, based on the fact that this imperfect budget doesn't set up, it doesn't set anybody up, but it does take people to feel that there are certain distortions, that we make the right decisions. That's why I'm going to put the vote again. If you don't make a decision, we'll take the Conciliation Council. In order to return to the review of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006, registration number 8,000. Go back to the study. [[12:01:01]] For 219 The decision is not taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes. The heads of the parliamentary groups and factions, the head of the budget committee, I invite the government on the third floor to take place during the break of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u148	Please invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our meeting. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine. We have come to this conclusion: first, let us put to the vote a return to the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. If you show good faith and we make that decision, we will put to the vote the approval of the draft budget for next year. If there is no positive decision, we will have the committee to deal with the proposals we intended to take into account in the decision-making process by Thursday, and on Thursday, we will return to the consideration of the "On the State Budget 2006" bill. Otherwise, let's put on your review a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "To make changes to the calendar of the session" to be plenary next week. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Emergency Status Act, when a state of emergency has been declared, the meetings of the Supreme Council are not suspended. So we've made our decision, and we're going to sit down, including in the New Year, with you. This is in line with the law. So, honourable national deputies, while you're here, so I've invited you to reflect on the information that you've been given as a result of the meeting of the Conciliation Council, I'll do a few messages. I am announcing the decision of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on the expulsion of Igor Ivanovich Plohogo from the deputy faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Another message: In accordance with articles 4.2.2. and 4.3. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report that the additionally elected National Deputy of Ukraine, Stepan Bogdanović Gavrish, is an authorized representative of the Socialist Party. [[united]] Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 for Ukraine, please vote. [[12:47:38]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions, please. Well, they're demanding factions, well, let's put it in factions that you, dear colleagues, should be on schedule. "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, National Party - 44, "Our Ukraine" - 43, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPI - 26, National Block - 21, SDPU (o) - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 18, "Trust of the People" - 15, National Movement of Ukraine - 16, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Reforms and Orders" - 13, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 10, non-fractional - 21. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's proposal is put to the vote. What, what? One minute, Supruna microphone, please. Well, it shows the head of the committee, there's some information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to take into account all the suggestions that have been made and give the committee the right to technically adjust all the figures that were named during my speech from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u150	Honorable National MPs. What? We're going to vote now. Another statement on, now we're going to find, now we're going to increase the number of votes. Please, Samuel. Dear colleagues, there on the house loan, and in principle the committee agreed. Please. We're going to vote now. A youthful home.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to add to the Co3408000 for a long-term credit. That's the first one. The other one. To restore Co3401190 to the healing of state children, or orphans. And to restore those 25 million, to take them out of this affair of money, they're going after the kids. Please, let us not treat the future of our nation this way. And add, please, Ludmila Pavlovno, zero on tourism. Add at least 10 million to our nation's international presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u152	Now, one minute. Supron, please, and we vote, all of it. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, everything, the last speaker. Ludmila Pavlovno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, we've really been looking at these expenses. Some of them can be counted. And I'm sure we can achieve a balance of income and expenditure in general under the budget, taking into account Katerina Semenovna's proposal. And with regard to youth lending. We made a proposal at the Conciliation Board meeting that we're ready for a certain amount of money from the state mortgage, including writing down the figure, to target the lending of youth housing. But so the communists, I think they should support this budget, because we're more social and more efficient, and we're not going to do any more balanced at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u154	Thank you. Honourable National MPs, taking into account the proposals made by the Budget Committee, which are in agreement with the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, I am voting on the second reading of the draft Ukrainian National Budget Act 2006 as a whole. Registration number 8,000. Please vote. [[12:51:08]] For 226 The law. The Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 was adopted. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine”, Communist faction 0. I'm asking you to calm down. The People's Party – 42, “Our Ukraine” – 43, Block Timoshenko – 0, SPU – 26, National Block - 21, SPDU(O) – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, “Trust of the People” – 16, National Movement of Ukraine – 16, “One Ukraine” – 2, “Reforms and Order” – 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 19. So, dear colleagues, the budget is accepted. I'm asking the committee to undertake technical drafting of the document and prepare it for signature. Announcing a draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. [[on the appointment of the hearing date for April 26, 2006]] Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have adopted a calendar plan for the next session. We don't have any meetings there for that matter. Please, who's going to report? Please. What, what? Now, one minute. Excuse me, please. Now, one minute. Dear people's deputies, I'm sorry, I just let go of the draft decision that stood first. So that draft decree that I just announced is now being referred to after considering the draft decree clarifying the time of parliamentary hearings. No, no, Catherine, where is your decision? No, one minute. I'm begging you, come on. But I do. The Draft Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Young People in Ukraine, entitled "Village Youth: Status, Problems and Ways of Resolution", is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The situation of rural youth remains very difficult, and there is a tendency to reduce the rural population. More than that, I would say that out of the village continues, 60 percent of those who leave the village are rural youth. Why? Because there's a low level of income at a high unemployment rate. In recent years, members of parliament have also noted that drug abuse and other negative practices have continued to increase. And the fact that every 4 teenagers who are delivered to internal affairs are also young villages, is that there are virtually no young people left in the village. Of course, the problem is this socio-cultural sphere. So we suggest that we look at the problems of Ukrainian rural youth, how they can be addressed at the National Security and Defence Council meeting as extremely important issues. We invite the President of Ukraine to introduce a system of academic scholarships for those students who will decide to work in the village for at least five years, because in all areas in the village and in education and in medicine, and so on, we feel hungry today. We also demand that in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006, well, we have already heard that today we have voted, that attention be paid to the creation of sports and socio-cultural objects in rural areas, the mandatory implementation of the School Bus program, and we have heard with you that money is not on a school bus this year, not on a computerization not used as a Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We consider it necessary to give the Cabinet the mandate to develop the Youth Code, as well as the mechanism for the introduction of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of first-hand jobs for young people and the granting of State grants to employers. We also propose to improve rural youth’s credit system for housing and the purchase of goods for long - term use. This is exactly what is needed for our young people today. There is also a system of targeting rural youth to higher educational institutions. She needs to be reinstated. Otherwise, a year from now, there will be no young person in our rural area. I would like the Ukrainian national deputies to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? A motion for a committee to adopt a draft Decision is put to the vote as a decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the situation of young people in Ukraine, rural youth, state, problems and ways of resolving them. Registration number 8604, please vote. [[12:57:22]] For 232 Decision taken. I mean, the ruling was passed. A draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of citizens' rights to freedom of conscience is under review. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee is asking to postpone the consideration of this bill, since they were made during the commission's report, they were processed but not considered by the committee, and there was no meeting of the committee. Let's put it down. No warning? A draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES is being announced. Reporter Ivan Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u157	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! From the question that we are currently considering, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was taken on February 3, 2005. The decision on urgent arrangements for the preparation of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster stated above: to hold joint parliamentary hearings in April 2006 with the participation of representatives of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. So today, in order to implement the stated decision of the Supreme Council, we only need to approve the date of their implementation. Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster propose to hold these hearings on April 26 on the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. The choice of this date is also linked to the conclusion on 26 April 2006 of the International Conference “20 Years of Chernobyl Disaster, a View to the Future”, which will allow for the participation of a wide range of international organisations in parliamentary hearings. We are aware that an obstacle to the decision-making of these hearings may be the fact that by this day elections will be held to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but we are thinking that parliamentary hearings will be held with the aim of involving broad levels of the public in the consideration of issues that are important to society. It's different. In accordance with article 90 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s mandate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine is suspended on the day of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have to hold these hearings. We urge you to support the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order and, together with the international community, to mark this date with the aim of comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of measures to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you for your attention. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! Ivan Aleksandrovich requires that we vote. There's no denying you, I'm voting a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree, such as a Decision on Information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES, registration number 8557. Please vote with technical editing, because it says "accept to the known" when it says "take to the known". [[13:00:53]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Please, Peter Cibenko, then Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The Communist faction, Zybenko. We have two questions in the agenda. I have the impression that there are two issues that are mixed here: 8557 is a draft decree on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the AES and there is a draft decree on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on this issue. So we jumped from one question to another. If I go back to the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES, I would like to say that we do not have the right to vote, such as to give a positive assessment of that period. Moreover, I am absolutely convinced that my colleague at the then Supreme Council, Jacenko Volodymyr Mikhajlovich, who made a proposal not to close the atomic block, was right, because indeed, our foreign kindnesses promised to promise, hands washed, and today Ukraine remained with this misery one by one. And then, if it were under the control of the workers, then this situation would be more controlled.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u160	On that point, Peter Stepanovich, distinguished colleagues, we spent Government Day with the agenda “Five Years of the Closure of the Chernobyl Atomic Station”. We need to make a decision. It is now suggested that on April 26, there will be 20 years of accidents at CHAES, a parliamentary hearing on that day. We need to consider and make decisions now, although there may be different grades. The committee suggests taking note of the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station. There'll be other proposals, let's look at them. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u161	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT Dear colleagues, I think there's just been some sort of psychological breakdown, not everyone understands. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u162	Dear Volodymira Alexandrovich, is the draft decision on the results of the government's 5th anniversary. As for the parliamentary hearings until the 20th anniversary of the closure of Chernobyl. More specifically, by the 20th anniversary of the CHAES disaster, that's another issue that we're going to consider. Now it's a completely different thing. Now we're looking at a draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm on schedule. On schedule of meetings, the draft Decree 8557 on information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES. And you reported another project. Hence, honourable colleagues are invited to hold parliamentary hearings on April 26, 2006. No, there's no need to explain. Offered. We're not closing the session, the offer could be made. That's why I'm putting to the vote, honourable colleagues, and just so we don't have to talk here for a long time, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings in connection with the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster on April 26, 2006. Let's say by vote, that's it. [[13:05:50]] For 336 Decision taken. It's being announced. Dear colleagues. Everything? Ivan Alexandrovich, please! Draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u163	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, on December 13, this year, we heard information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES. There was a very lively discussion of this pressing problem. Three groups of issues have been highlighted: first, the question of stabilizing the construction of the “Hidden” facility and the construction of a new coating, coating, so-called confilment; second, the issue of the storage of spent nuclear fuel, in particular the construction of the SLAP-.2 repository; third, the issue of providing social guarantees to those who worked and continue to work at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, as well as the inhabitants of Slavic. The proposed draft Supreme Council Regulation assesses the activities of the authorities on each of these issues and proposes a number of steps to be taken by the government to remedy the situation. With regard to the question of stabilizing the Hidden object, much time has been lost in this direction. The first years of implementation of the system of action were underproductive. In recent years, there have been positive changes in the implementation of the plan for operations at the “Hiddenness” facility, from receiving a large number of paper reports to doing real work on the site of the Chernobyl nuclear station. During the next few months, basic construction objects will be officially accepted. The other one. A large part of the legal and regulatory documents, as well as the President of Ukraine and the Government's mandate to ensure the viability of the city of Slavic, were carried out. During the five - year period following the closure of the Chernobyl AES, social programs were steadily underfunded. Third. The creation of a shelter for the storage of spent nuclear fuel is taking an improperly long time. I remind you that this safe house was to enter into force in 2003, in view of this situation and for the purpose of correcting them and proposing a draft decision. Please vote in favour of this draft decree. This is the author of this project, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennaday Rudenko. The first project suggested assessing the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers as unsatisfactory, this information, this proposal came from the Communist faction. And in a project that has been submitted in exchange, it is suggested that we take note of the fact that this government has only begun to carry out its duties. That's why I think we should take this decision, regardless of the assessment that we have to make, so there's a system of action in each of these directions that is being proposed by our committee, members of our committee to correct the situation. So I would ask you not to politicize this question, but to accept it, and it would be in the best interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u164	Thank you, distinguished national MPs, evaluation, I think the MPs and the Supreme Council of Ukraine can give, please sit down, Ivana Alexandrovich, not to specific personnel, but to the Institute, gives an evaluation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Because if we change every day of the government, then we have no one to answer for. And since there were 2 proposals, one is to take information to the knowledge, the other is to recognize the activity as unsatisfactory in this matter. So now we're going to take this as a basis, and then we're going to vote on these two proposals. After which proposal will most votes in the evaluation of the government’s activities, then we will vote in general. No warning? Three minutes, please, for the reasons of the vote. Please sign up. Yes, please on board: Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, yes, many governments have finally addressed the problem of decommissioning the Chernobyl nuclear station, but the train is said to have been on the ground. But I didn't want to say that, I went to the committee, Rudenko, to the distinguished rapporteur. In accordance with the procedure, our committee has sent a proposal to include the Government in the decision on the day. We don't have any feedback. We were not invited or accepted, nor were we invited to a meeting of the Committee. The Committee therefore suggests that, until the order is provisionally agreed with all the committees which make observations, it be deferred to the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u166	Thank you. Anastasiav, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u167	May I have the floor to pass on to Cibenko Petra Stepanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u168	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u169	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, the faction stands ready to support the draft of this decision because it really relates to an extremely acute and painful problem. But on one condition. We simply do not have the moral right to judge the situation differently today than the unsatisfying one. Don't let them take it personally, let's say it's some kind of personnel, but we can't make another decision today. Because other, let's say, foreign kindness has promised us, and today there's nothing to help us, and there's nothing to compensate for. And Ukraine was left with this universe misery one by one. I'm not talking about the fact that so many Chernobylers, people working at the AES today, are running out of minimal support. So once again, I stress that we have no moral right not to appreciate this situation that we have today. So we're going to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u170	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u171	Bandurka, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, to me as a Marjorie MP, and to my colleagues there has recently been an increase in the number of calls made by black people who are concerned and what has been discussed in the adoption of the budget in advance and in the deterioration of their position in connection with the deterioration of various kinds of payments or delays. Clearly, then, we must be critical and demanding when we make this decision. I can see that it would be possible to take the basis for an option, and it is necessary to evaluate the issues related to the closure of the Chernobyl AES as a whole and to take a decision today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u172	Yes, the honourable national deputies, we exchanged thoughts. What? I don't. Just a minute. George Carmazin, please, although time is running out, as an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u173	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are still questions to be voted on in this decree. We must not only invite the President to address the countries of the Great Seven, but our Parliament to address the parliaments of the Great Seven countries, because there are parliaments that govern these countries. Turn around and tell me what's going on. That's the first one. And the second. Where it is recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 May 2006 a draft of the State General Programme for the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system, it should be written “terminally recommended” because these are the requirements of legislation. This program was to be introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And what is not being implemented today is the Ukrainian Law on General Principles for Further Exploitation, Exploitation, is unacceptable. So I would ask you to make these amendments by text when you take it to the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u174	Yes. If the committee doesn't object, I think we could add, it'll just improve the bill itself. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that there were 2 reviews during the Government’s Day of Discussion, the first assessment, the information to be taken into account, and the second assessment that the work involved in the government’s work on the implementation of the tasks resulting from the closure of the Chernobyl AES was not satisfactory, so I will put the vote on the basis. And then we're going to vote separately on the first paragraph. Now he's voting for the base without the first. The first point is the base, and then we're going to give the estimates on the basis. Please vote. This is draft regulation 8557. [[13:15:46]] For 262 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to vote is now the first, paragraph 1 that the committee proposes, to accept information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES. I'd like to clarify it, not accept it, but take the information to the knowledge, so obviously. The Committee's proposal to paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 is put to the vote on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:16:36]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Now the proposal is next to the 1st point. The work of the Cabinet of Ministers in carrying out tasks related to the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station is considered unsatisfactory. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:17:10]] For 172 The decision is not taken. So we put it to a vote without the first paragraph. Accordingly, the second paragraph becomes the first and changes are made. I am voting for the approval of the draft decree as a decision without the first paragraph on the information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES with proposals made by Yuri Karmazin. Registration number is 8557. Please vote. [[13:17:54]] For 280 I'll take the order. Yes, honourable national deputies, the draft decree on clarifying the timing of parliamentary hearings “On the condition of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, the persons of the primary lineup of internal affairs bodies and some others. Dear colleagues, please, Alexander Markovich. Reported to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u175	Dear fellows, dear Head! It just turned out to be December 20, Ukrainian Police Day. Let me welcome the entire police force of Ukraine, the honest militia with this holiday, to wish good and health and harmony in their affairs. Dear colleagues! We decided to hold parliamentary hearings “On the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons of the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others”, and appointed this meeting on 4 January. Since we do not fit in on the schedule, the parliamentary hearings provided for in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 1 December 2005 on parliamentary hearings “On the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection of military personnel, persons of the primary and regular composition of internal affairs bodies and some others” are proposed to be held on 8 February 2006. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u176	I'm looking where February 8th is, I'm looking. Honourable National MPs are put to the vote by the Committee on the Adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On clarifying the time of parliamentary hearings on the status of housing security and other guarantees of social protection of military personnel, persons of the primary and regular composition of internal affairs and some others”, registration number 8610, please vote. It's a technical question, dear colleagues. [[13:20:33]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The draft Regulation on Hearing Information of the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Ichchenka, on Financial and Economic Activities, Personnel Policy and Preparation for the 2006-2006 autumn heating season of NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. Here, perhaps, the term “winter-spring season” should be formulated, since the autumn is over, to clarify. Who's going to report on this? Igor Šurma, please. And then Oleg Panasovski from the committee. I think it'll take a while for us not to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u177	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The situation in the domestic oil and gas complex is marked as a deep crisis. In keeping with these trends, a rapid collapse threatens the fundamentals of Ukraine’s energy security and thus its sovereignty. Preparations for the 2005-2006 winter-spring season, which began in October, happen late and behind schedules for previous work. Oil and gas purchases do not occur because there are no fixed tariffs for supplying Russian oil and gas to Ukraine. Negotiations with Turkmenistan on the signing of a long-term contract, as well as a separate clarifying protocol on the supply of Turkmenistan's gas, are actually at a dead end. This situation is explained, first and foremost, by irresponsible and unprofessional state policy in relations with strategic energy partners of the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan, which are the main and, in fact, the only reliable energy suppliers in Ukraine today. The ultimatum policy launched today by Ukraine in bilateral relations has led to a catastrophic shortage of energy supplies in the days leading up to the heating season. No step has been taken towards diversifying energy supply sources, addressing energy conservation issues and shaping public policies in this direction. NAK Naftogaz Ukraine's tax debt remains significant. The salary debt is 32 million, and the payment debt to the Pension Fund is 3.5 million. According to NAC head Naftogazu’s press report, Jvchenko was personally confirmed for NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” by the French bank “Sociate” an additional credit line of two and a half billion euros on the basis of the signing of the memorandum. This form loan was obtained without any mortgages and guarantees, both governmental and corporate. In doing so, Naftaz has the priority of selecting projects to which the funds will be directed. At the same time, an expert analysis shows that the financial situation of NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” at the moment is critical. Experts do not rule out bankruptcy in the near future, which could lead to the collapse of the strategic sectors of Ukraine’s economy. Against the background of the unwarranted and financially dangerous involvement of large foreign credit resources is often unknown. Based on the above, with a view to ensuring the interests and security of the nation, and taking into account that in the world practice, loans such as those received from the French bank are extremely rare and, in general, issued only to the most powerful companies in the developed countries, it is necessary to adopt a given decision requiring the publication of an urgent report on the state of the oil and gas complex and the use of urgent measures to address the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u178	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear national deputies, now from the committee. Committee position, Panasovski Oleg Grigorovich, please. To prepare, one minute, for a draft decision on the unacceptability of the project that we are considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u179	The lack of pragmatism in relations with Russia has contributed to the gas problem becoming a gas war. Policy play in a country whose economies of three quarters develop through oil, gas, GSM from the outside, dangerous things. Political relations have developed consistently in previous years, and this has had a positive impact on Ukraine's economy. Instead of developing mutually beneficial cooperation on an early foundation, we are destroying it. Instead of political speculation, the leadership of the country should entrust Ukrainian experts with economic calculation. And the calculations are that, even if Gazprom pays for gas transit through Ukraine at European prices, Ukraine will suffer enormous losses. The volume of gas generated from transit will decrease by 2.5 times at $160 per thousand and by 3 times at $220. Not only in the price of gas for Ukraine, but also in the loss of transit status, which is almost inevitable in current trends, since even inter-presidential dialogue such that political decision-making, mutual concessions, compromises are impossible because trust is lost. It had not been possible to imagine this before, if the Presidents had been directly involved in the resolution of a matter. In a word, we're done. Ukraine is at the threshold of the fuel and energy crisis. By the way, crisis management is becoming a way of life for the country's current leadership. Consequences. Metallurgical enterprises, which account for 40 per cent of Ukrainian exports, and hymproma enterprises, which constitute another 20 per cent of exports, may be uncompetitive. Other sectors of the country's export-oriented economy may also be victims of the gas war. Question. Who will be responsible for this? The TEC, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security Committee considered the draft regulation. Supports all the issues included in it. He considered it necessary to hear the information provided by Minister Plačkov of the Mintopilenergo Ukraine and NAC Prime Minister Ivchenko on the status of the negotiation process in the context of imports of natural gas and transit through Ukraine. In view of the exceptional relevance of the gas problem in the country, the Sectoral Committee, by its decision, proposes that the matter be considered in closed session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision of the Committee shall be referred to the Bureau of the Supreme Council. Please support the decision of our team. Committee Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u180	Oleg Grigorovitch, one question arises. When will we consider? Because this is December 15th. I told Igor Mikhailovich when. If the Supreme Council makes a positive decision, December 15th is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u181	No, that's how we have to determine the date when we're going to look at it, because this is December 15th. Well, let's make a proposal, then. Let the committee offer. Well, please consult with the author and suggest. And now we have a draft of the Inadmissibility Order. Well, please! We have a draft of the Inadmissibility Order. We need to be able to justify the draft decision, then we vote. If we do not make an unacceptable decision, then we will be determined as to other positions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, an extremely important issue is the gas negotiations between Ukraine and Russia. I'm going to the CEOs. The price of 95 and 105 dollars per thousand cubic meters is unacceptable to the chemical and metallurgical industries. And the negotiations are going extremely hard. We've considered these proposals on the committee -- and we've admitted that this decision is unacceptable in the composition of the Shurma deputy. We should not, as a negotiating party, undress on the other side's agenda and show public spectacles around the world. I have made a decision on the inadmissibility of hearing this question. And I think the position of the committee is fair. We need to discuss this problem, but in a completely closed regime, and the information should not be given by NAC head “Naftogaz Ukraine” Ivchenko, who is not currently negotiating, should be spoken by the Minister of Energy of Plačkov, but there should be no journalist in order to avoid leaking information. And we shouldn't give the other side a signal that we're weak. This is a question that needs to be consolidated. That's why I support the committee's position, not the Shurma deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u183	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A draft decision on the non-admissibility of the draft Decision on Hearing Information of the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Ichchenka, on financial economic activity, human resources policy and on preparing for the 2005-2006 fall-winter heating season Naftogaz Ukraine, on unacceptableness. [[authors are Ukrainian national deputies Kelestin and Orobec]] People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:31:02]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Therefore, honourable national MPs. Please, Shurma, the author of the draft regulation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u184	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, I would like to propose a hearing date, that is, a change to the first item on December 22. Secondly, I completely disagree with the previous statement that today the head of NAK “Naftogazu” Yvchenko is not negotiating. This authority should understand that it is not acting that way and that it is not acting that way. Because it is not responsible for previous activities. He hasn't responded and there's no report of the Deputy Prime Minister's work on the Euro-Integration of Rybauk. Ivchenko once served as deputy minister, and was specially removed so that he would not take responsibility and make NAK Naftogazu's head. No one is responsible or responsible for the reforms that Polishchuk, a health minister, wanted to introduce: everyone in the village and prescription medicine. And no one is responsible for the reform of the Immortal. And the same thing they want to do with gas is to avoid responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I propose that the draft regulation be redrafted and the title of this content: on hearing information from the head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, Ivchenka on financial and economic activities, personnel policy and the conditions for providing Ukraine with gas for 2006, because everything else, autumn-winter period, is not being burned by Naftogaz Ukraine. Second, the date to be specified: December 22. And thirdly, paragraph 2: invite the committee not to identify its co-reporters, but co-reporters from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and not “on the matter” but “on the matter”. With such clarifications in mind, I am voting for approval of the draft decree. Registration number 8533. Please vote. [[13:33:37]] For 201 It's a non-adopted decision. What? Please, by the factions. Let's do the factions. “Regions of Ukraine” – 46, Communists – 52, National Party – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 21, SPI – 17, National Block – 1, SPDU(o) – 20, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Trust of the People” – 1, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “One Ukraine” – 5, “Reforms and Order” – 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 5, non-fractional – 3. It's a non-adopted decision. Please don't make it. Who's to go back to the motion for Decree 8533, please vote. Please. On your return to the hearing, please vote. [[13:34:38]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Republic, the change in the borders of Kotovsk, Odessa, is under review. The committee considered and suggested making the appropriate decision. Is there a need to report? None. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on a draft decision to change the boundaries of Kotovska Odes region. Registration number 8584. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:35:26]] For 263 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now under consideration for the draft Order on the name of the village of Musorovka Zastavnovskýy district of Cherninovec region, registration number 8585. Here it is suggested that your fellow Members exchange one word. There was a Musorica, and it was called the village of Mosorovka, which corresponds to the historical roots. Well, please, Manchulenka. This is the election district of Manchulenka, let him give us a hint.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u186	George Manchulenko 203th constituency of Cherniewecka District, Ukrainian People's Party The honorable head, the honourable colleagues, is the return of the historical name of this village, which belongs to the Zastavanni district of Cherniewec, where I was born, the village had the historical name "Mosorovka". And then it turns out that something called "Smooth" happened in the transcription, and because it's a beautiful village on the Dniester coast, the decent people live there, the ecologically clean zone, they want there to be no association with what the name of the village has to do with garbage. So it goes back to the old name, which is still recorded in 1642's "Mosorovka". So I would like to support you, because this is my little Fatherland, and the village where I was born is next to the village of Mitkov, two kilometers away. Please vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, you could call the village “Manchulenko” and then not rename it twice. Honourable National Deputies are put to the vote by the Committee on the Adoption of the Draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rename of the Village of Musorovka Zastavanni region of the Chernivets region, registration number 8585. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:37:36]] For 295 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the appointment of the Dubensk district of the Plains region is under review. Here it is proposed to assign the settlement of the Dubensk district of the Plain region of the name “Travel” to the village. No warning? And it was nameless at all. Dear colleagues, there were just two pitches: Pigs-1 and Pigs-2. Dear colleagues, a draft decree on the appointment of the Dubin district of the Plains region is being put to the vote. Registration number is 8586. Please vote. Change the vote. Please, who's the motive? Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Mikhailo Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the National Deputies! We often change the name of the population and do not come from the cost to the state. We can't pay wages today, we can't solve other social issues, and we're too excited about these issues. So, for example, I'm making an offer to stay out of these questions for the time being. I think the name of the population will survive, and first of all, people need to pay and solve other social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! Dear Mikhailo Alexiyovich! The point is that this village, where 238 citizens live, has no name at all, has to be named. It's not about renaming, it would be different if it were just to name it as this populous point in connection with moving from the tents of the people. I'm voting on a draft decree appointing a settlement in the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region, registration number 8586. Please vote. [[13:40:27]] For 281 I'll take the order. A draft decree on the appointment of the village of Wilshan Ichnyan in the Chernigiv region is being announced for consideration. Clarification: there was a Wilshana, and it must be as historical: Olshana. Well, dear fellows, we've all been approached by the Supreme Council. Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u190	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government Vladimir Mikhailovich, a good point made by Mikhailo Alexiyovich. But here's the question that we need to hear the point of view of the committee. After all, the committee collects the relevant documents. And if it's not a renaming, it's a refinement, and so on, then we need to hear a report from the committee, because it has the relevant information, and it often happens in cities. So I would ask that the committee reporter be able to express his point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u191	Thank you. National MP Stupak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u192	Vladimir Stupak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The people of this village — Olshan or Wilshan — addressed me. We need to clarify that name today. And Mileko, the village head, with a request to the Supreme Council, to all factions to accept this decree. The village is very ancient, since the time of the Kyiv Russia there was a settlement. In Cossack times it was called Olshans. And in Soviet times, these name confusions took place. Even now, the workers of the village council are unable to receive a salary in connection with this name. So the big request is to make this change. And the committee also considered it. We have the Slauti-signed committee's decision to support this name. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party is asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u193	Mikhailo Needle, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u194	Ice cream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u195	Anatoly Frost, I'm sorry, I didn't see it. We continue our work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u196	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Zaporez region, Volodymyr Litvina Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This is, in fact, our voters, our radio audiences, our television viewers, and perhaps many things they do not understand. Today we have so many economic issues that need to be solved today, which require financial finance, and today we decide where we change the letter and so on. Someone got mixed up or something. This is such a major issue in our country today that it needs to be done. See how many of these problems we solve. I'm going to suggest that we go state-level and not do that rename. The time will come to be busy. One thing, let's say a change of territory, I understand. But some kind of letter, it's funny. So let's let the committee bring in and count how much money we're going to rename this village, let's say the voters know what we're doing here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u197	Dear National Deputies! You have help, please. Read what was written in documents before 1960, passports were written “the village of Olshan” and then began writing “Vilshan” and today people have problems, it is a clarification, a technical issue. So let's make a decision or put it at the local level to make the right decisions, that's all. But since this is the competence of the Supreme Council, let's talk about technical issues, not debates. I'm voting on a draft decree specifying the name of the village of Wilshan Ichnian district of Chernigiv district, registration number 8587. Please vote. Let's vote, honourable national MPs. We've had more discussions. Please let's vote. [[13:45:18]] For 181 The decision is not taken. I'd like a committee. There's nothing to show by factions. A draft Order on the name of the village of Komunist of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv district is under review. Storm, please. Vitali Oluiko, please, if necessary. To the village of Dokuciavo. Well, you have papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, please don't be indignant, because this is indeed the exclusive competence that the Constitution confers on the Supreme Council in the matter of the administrative and territorial system. And when we're addressed in this particular case by the Kharkiv District Council, he's asking us to rename the village of the Kharkiv Communist of the Kharkiv region of the Kharkiv region to the village of Dokuchayevo. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you will be determined by vote, but as a representative of the committee, I must report. In 1929, a council of the name of the newspaper “Communist”, which was reorganized in October 44 by the Kharkiv Agricultural Institute, was organized in the lands that are now part of the village of Communist. Later, the Kharkiv Agricultural Institute was named the State Agrarian University of Dokuchayev. The majority of the population of the village of Communists held a referendum: 75 percent of the votes in the referendum are asked to rename the village of Communists to the village of Dokuciavo. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government supported the proposal, not unanimously, but by a majority of votes, agreed to the proposal of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv to rename the village of Dokuchayevo. All right, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u199	For reasons, please record for three minutes. For reasons of vote, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Suhi, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u200	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I would like to support Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who rightly pointed out these are technical questions. And you remember, both in that vocation, and in that vocation, we did that vote on the machine. You know, we just have to, if there are objections to some kind of abnormal funding that needs some extra money or maybe we can learn some aspects of it. In this case, it's about, first of all, and the return of historically some aspect of justice. And secondly, in this particular case, we've heard that a referendum has been held on the inhabitants of this particular populace, so why should the Supreme Council oppose the thoughts or views of those people who live or live there. If there was no such referendum, then we should make our comments to the committee of profile. If he was, we just have to vote and give them back the name they want to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u201	Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u202	I ask you to pass the word to Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u203	Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u204	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that we are now in election campaign mode, but it is surprising that we have been silent for 10 years after the local referendum on this issue. And we understand that 1991 or 1995 is no longer the year 2005 and whether it really was, because it's not exactly written here when it happened. I think, no matter what you try to rename, you have to first ask people today whether they really know how much they have to pay for naming technical passports, for different kinds of passports, for license plates, and a lot of other things. So whatever they're trying to rename, the Communist project as it was, it's going to stay. I think the 2006 election will still confirm this position. And for that reason, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u205	Yes, Kosinov Stanislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u206	Stanislav Kosinov, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues and, above all, my colleague, Orzhahovsky, I would like to tell you how a resident of the city of Harykov and Kharkiv Region naturally has been asked three times in the past six months by Dokuchaev University: when it will be considered on the committee and put on the agenda of the Supreme Council the question of the renaming. With all due respect to the Communist faction, there is the opinion of the community that voted in the referendum. And you don't have to manipulate the election here - by not choosing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u207	Dear National Deputies! Different thoughts. Let's, let's please, honourable national MPs, let's define by voting. Well, there's a committee proposal! I'm just asking the committee to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now determine by vote. We've been working really well. What? I don't know! The committee won't let me! Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: on the renaming of the village of the Communist of the Kharkiv district of Kharkiv. Registration number 8588. Please identify yourself, please. Be sure to vote. [[13:51:49]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 23, Communists – 0, National Party – 25, "Our Ukraine" – 35, Block Timoshenko – 28, SPU – 21, National Block – 1, SDPU (o) – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 18, "Trust of the People" – 11, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, "One Ukraine" – 11 "Reforms and Orders" – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 4, "Afterfractional" – 12. We continued our work, our morning session for 15 minutes. The draft Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights is being announced for consideration. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko's reporter. This is registration number 7261.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u208	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You have a draft decision to implement the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The bill was drafted in due course by the national deputy Sergei Hlavat, but then, when he became the minister of justice, I brought him to the committee and the committee supports him on the first reading as a basis. We believe that, given that more and more Ukrainian citizens are turning to the European Court of Human Rights and that the European Court is now considering some 3,000 such cases of Ukrainian citizens, some of you know that you have already made the appropriate decision, but there is no legal act under which the European Court of Justice would have been rendered in Ukraine. That's why we think we need to settle this law. It is anticipated that once the European Court of Justice has passed its decision, Ukraine will be granted access. That is, our representation before the European Court of Justice translates the text into Ukrainian and for 3 days, after the text has come and a concise presentation of the judgment of the European Court is published in the “Governmental Courier” or “The Voice of Ukraine”. Following this, the European Court of Justice’s decision takes place in the executive service of the Ministry of Justice. And if there are appropriate sums, the State is responsible and these amounts are collected from the treasury. That is, a clear order of action and the authorities responsible for specific actions. I think the settlement of this issue is going to solve a lot of problems in society, in Ukraine. Because you know here, in the Supreme Council, and to us, and to me personally, there are a lot of citizens who look to me to make decisions about how the European Court decides and so forth. That's why we think we can take this bill as a basis. There's a clear point to scientific expertise and they're quite serious. But I think that by the second reading, we're going to work with you, we're going to consider your proposals, and it's going to be a quality law that regulates these gaps in what we have today in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u209	Dear colleagues. Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Is there a need to discuss? They insist. Let's talk about it. But I'd like to, Basil Sirenko. Vasil Fedorovich, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u210	Basil Sirenko, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Our judicial system is in crisis. And in a state of crisis, it's systemic. Over the course of 10 years of reforms, executive authorities have done everything they can to drive the courts into a dead end. It's both fiscal and material pressure, financial pressure, it's administrative pressure. You know, the phone law didn't go away, but it got a new breath. There are corrupt systems in the courts, some of the judges are already judging, not alone, but with relatives. In courts there are people who work professionally, not at the professional level that is necessary for the judicial system. As a result, many Ukrainian citizens receive judicial decisions that they are not satisfied with, which are generally wrong in nature. Thus, people eventually turn to the European Court of Justice. And as you heard from the head of the committee, more than three thousand citizens had already spoken. There is a decision by the European Court of Justice on these appeals, and they are positive for citizens. Therefore, a mechanism is needed to enable these decisions to be implemented by the European Court of Justice. I believe that this law must be adopted in the first reading as a basis, because it is a law that protects the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u211	Yes, thank you, too. The school of Andrew. None. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u212	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, more than three thousand citizens have appealed to the European Court of Justice for protection of their rights and are moving on. And what do we see? At the last meeting of the Committee, the Legal Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was designated Ukraine as a State not implementing the International Court of Human Rights ruling. So it's negative. And it's marked for these reasons, no, no budget, no settlement, no budget, and so on. The reasons we're dealing with here are with you. So what will be stated in this law is that the decision of the court is mandatory for execution throughout Ukraine in accordance with article 46 of the convention, which is executed at the expense of the State Budget, is absolutely correct and this is the authority of our State, which wants to be civilized and is so. I'm sure our president has to make sure of that. It's a matter of publishing these decisions, it's a question of changing the court system. You see what's going on right now, 50,000 cases already have a whole clot in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. What? Everyone started running to the MPs. Did they make a clot, lead to this situation, and run to the MPs? And where is the responsibility, reverend? So today, when it's said that a dynamic economy should become the main achievement of a new policy, pure from corruption and ambitions, an effective social agenda, I say, first of all, a conscience, a responsibility for the lives of those who have entrusted us with their parliamentary mandates, for those who live and live in that country. And responsibility and conscience are exactly what is needed in the work of the judicial system. When we feel the deficits and the facilities and the conditions and the payments that are in the courts today, we have to understand that people today have deficits and drugs and fuel and efficiency of management programs and financial contributions, and we simply, first of all, do not accept this law, we see simply the deficit of a simple human conscience, that great sense of empathy and compassion for other people that the Lord has given us. So I would ask you to adopt this bill in the first reading and to ensure that it is accepted as a whole by the New Year, because this bill is opening the way for the protection of citizens' rights, because they accumulate more and more contented citizens' complaints. That is, they complain on a reasonable basis. Let's take this bill. I'm asking everyone to focus! I see that many things.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u213	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski. I'm asking the People's Secretariat, I'll do it. I ask the secretariat to call the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u214	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! The most difficult is the trial in which the State acts as the respondent. Moreover, if the image of the State clearly follows the shadow of a high official or a politician representing the face of the state not only in front of its citizen but also in front of the world. This creates a rather unpleasant specific precedent for sacrificing the interests of a citizen for the sake of the image of the state. And I'm not jealous of those judges whose fate compels the mother to deal with such trials, because in that case the judge is forced to make a decision in a critical situation. As a result, in the civil trials against the State, merit is very often overcome, especially in countries where democracy is only emerging. In such a case, justice is being plundered because of the deceptive desire to preserve the image of the State, more specifically, the face of politicians or officials who violate the rights of citizens on behalf of the State. A citizen whose rights have been violated by the State has no way of restoring justice in the courts of that State. As a result of the harm done to the citizen, the only thing left is to seek justice in an independent state in a court of law. That is the case with the European Court of Human Rights. Because it is outside any particular state of influence of bureaucracy and thus contributes greatly to the restoration of civil society control over the state. Therefore, if the State has declared its social orientation and principle of the rule of law and the priority of the citizen’s interests, in such a State the public should respect the rulings of the European Court of Justice, as the most objective and independent of the State of the judiciary, as the last institution capable of restoring justice. As a result, the faction of the People’s Party of Lithuania considers it necessary to promote the credibility of the decisions of the European Court of Justice in Ukraine and the full implementation of them. In particular, our faction believes that the legal norms laid down in Bill 7261 are right, so we support this bill in the first reading. But dear friends! It must be stated that the adoption of laws under article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine is the exclusive authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, the position of the project that failure to carry out a proper examination or finding that the bill does not conform to the requirements of the convention is the reason for stopping further consideration of the bill in fact will not work, since it will generally be contrary to the above article of the Constitution. So by understanding and supporting the progressiveness and need of the bill, we believe that it should be further developed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m0.u215	The honourable national deputies, the discussion of the draft Law on the Implementation of Decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights has been completed. If you don't mind, let's make a decision about this project at 4:00. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
