ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the glade system, we're registering. [[16:01:35]] In the session hall, nearly a record number of 423 national deputies were registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Yes, dear colleagues, you and I have finished Government Day. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The question is: a draft Act amending certain legislative acts for the administration of an excise assembly. [[Registration number 7372]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, reports. Yes, please, Homutinic. I can't see. Then from the committee of Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, please. Only, Anatoly Ivanovich, did you pay attention to what question we are now hearing? Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the legislation on the administration of the excise assembly in place of the previously introduced bill, taking into account the proposals and comments made by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. This bill is designed to introduce a new order for the release of ethyl alcohol to produce organic synthesis products. According to him, in the use of ethyl alcohol in the production of organic synthesis products, provided that the final product does not contain ethyl alcohol, the excise collection of ethyl alcohol is taxed at a rate of 0.1 per litre per 100 per cent of ethyl alcohol. The changes proposed in the bill were premeditated by the introduction of a single rate of 16 dollars per litre of excise alcohol into ethyl alcohol, which was in fact created by conditions for the economic inadequacy of the use of alcohol produced in Ukraine for industrial purposes by Ukrainian producers. As a result of these circumstances, companies producing organic synthesis products were forced to work only in export mode and solely on tax terms. But recently, Ukraine's Act of Amendment to Ukraine's 2005 State Budget Act and some other Ukrainian legislative acts have introduced rules under which they are obliged to bill notes that are issued when imported alcohol from abroad, which again raises the issue of the economic relevance of these products. A list of companies producing organic synthesis products is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for organic synthesis products. Today, in Ukraine, only two enterprises produce organic synthesis products mentioned above. Businesses producing synthesis products provide for the establishment of tax posts. Exports of technical alcohol are carried out within the limits of the quotas established by the Cabinet of Ministers and by the availability of special technical devices that electronicly record the amount of alcohol and the use of denatured ingredients. The committee, after considering the draft bill at its meeting, proposes to adopt it on the basis of the comments of Minfin Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u3	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, please sit down. So, short procedure: two for, two against. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Prepare Vladimir Novak. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, I don't see anything in his place of work. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Novak. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u4	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear voters! I read the bill carefully. I want to point out immediately that I have a number of questions. First of all, a few words about the problem at all. As soon as we get back to it. It seems that there is no more important problem than the one and at what price to trade in alcohol in Ukraine. They just passed one law -- how there are forces that start dragging the rope to the other side, looking for arguments how to undo it. And what's important is that the average citizen, the consumer of this, has no benefit, for him both the prices have gone up, and they're going up. These adjustments and refinements of the oligarchs behind the frame are used. Ladies and gentlemen, in the years of so-called independence, no new alcohol plant has been built in Ukraine, and those enterprises that have been built under Soviet authority with state funds are now being run by a bunch of people close to power -- and they are being pushed down by crazy private capitals. I think in the alcohol situation, the state should say its firm word and put a dot, establish its rules of the game once and for all. And under these rules, which will be established by the state, everyone else should play. Second, with regard to the draft law that was introduced today. I think he deserves attention, because accepting proposals to lower the excise duty rate from 17 bracelets to 10 centimetres -- 170 times a liter -- will contribute to the cost of ethyl denatured alcohol, technical alcohol, which is intended to be used as a raw material for organic synthesis products. This will help to increase the production volume of these products, in the end, by costing them. Along with a number of measures provided for by this law, this could be an important step in establishing real government control over the work of the alcohol industry. What is more, according to the bill, companies producing ethyl acetate are required to have tax posts. I think it's a necessary measure, because applying the excise duty rate, depending on the direction of further alcohol use, can contribute to alcohol abuse and circulation. There will be businesses that, technically, pay 170 times less excise duty, drive food companies and pour vodka and feed on it. That's why the bill is designed to strengthen state control over the work of such enterprises. I believe that this bill needs to be voted on in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u5	Thank you. Please, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. After him, Yuri. Solomatin Yuri, please. Behind him is Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u6	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are faced with this situation over and over again, which can be said to be a legislative drag-and-rush. In one session, we are considering a proposal to raise the excise congregation, and in the other session, there are no less attractive proposals to reduce the excise congregation. In fact, this is the dialectic of life, and we need to look at these proposals very carefully and very objectively. In this case, there is a reduction in rates, a repeated reduction in rates for some of the excise goods used in ethyl alcohol. The bill and the speech of my colleagues, who spoke to me from this very rostrum, provide some positive indications that such a law is appropriate. But there is a key question over and over again about such conflicting bills: "Who can control the implementation of this law in the same way that it is proposed for use?" Do we today have law enforcement and other control bodies capable of putting in the name of a small Ukrainian and a state in general for the implementation of such a law? And that's where the big question mark comes in. Therefore, I believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, but at the same time, when working on the second reading, to provide for security controls that would allow this law not to be used in the interests of adversarial businesses but, above all, to direct this law in the interests of the ordinary citizen of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u7	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction. Get ready for Black Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u8	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The bill that we are considering in Parliament today certainly needs attention. Here my colleagues spoke and said that they could accept it, that we could work on it in the second reading, and so on. I'd like to point out that the faction is very cautious about this bill and I'd like to make a note. According to the Ministry of Finance, the adoption of the bill would result in a reduction in the budget of 400 million dollars. So on the one hand, we're talking about how we're adopting the laws that are there, the social direction that some people are supporting, and so on, the extra revenue needs all of that. Secondly, we want to make a rule that the 400 million budget will be lost, the State Tax Administration notes that the individual provisions of the bill need to be harmonized with the laws of Ukraine amending certain laws in Ukraine on the regulation of the circulation of alcohol, and on the drinking of tobacco products. As well as amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005. As a result, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine supports this bill, but it is also essential to work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u9	Thank you. Vladimir and I can't see Black. The author of the bill appeared. Vitaly Hometic, is there a desire to speak? Please, 3 minutes to the author. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u10	Dear National MPs, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, this bill has been drafted to prevent the production of counterfeit liquor and the filling of the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u11	This is the second, second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u12	I'm sorry. Yeah, that was the first one, that was the first one. Yes. I'm in on the second bill. It is said that there is an enterprise in Ukraine that produces ethyl acetate that is used for production. I'm sorry, can I get my papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u13	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u14	I'm sorry, it's just that the first law has been removed, it's a little confusing. After the introduction of 17 bracelets per litre of alcohol, the enterprise became in a situation where the cost of the products went beyond what it could produce. We have therefore drafted such a bill on the committee, and it is supported by the Ministry of Finance on first reading. And we gave all the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to enable the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a procedure so that this alcohol, which will go at a concessional rate, 10 copies, not 17 bracelets, could be controlled by the Cabinet of Ministers and not go to another market. In introducing such an approach to technical alcohol production, the production of alcohol will increase by 30 million litres per year. This will enable the creation of an additional 500 jobs and thus increase incomes to the State budget. The bill contains issues that require further elaboration. And we are certainly prepared to refine it during the second reading process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u15	Thank you. From the Cabinet of Ministers, what's the point? Please, Reguretic, go ahead. Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill before you was discussed in detail in the Cabinet of Ministers. And we've basically come to realize that this first-reading bill can be adopted and developed at some point in time what we would also like to suggest for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u17	Question completed. So I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts for the administration of an excise assembly. [[Registration number 7372]] Please vote. [[16:18:37]] For-129 Perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in favour of re-reading the bill, please vote. [[16:19:05]] For-149 A little more, 149, but it's clearly not enough to be sent back to the first reading. So the bill is not supported, so it's off-limits. Dear colleagues, we've got another job to do. So let's think about it this way. Two factions, a more loyal faction of the Social Democrats and a deputate group of Democratic Initiatives, are asking for a recess and a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Let's make sure that we have this break, and we'll have a consensus board in 15 minutes. So I'm going to call it a break of 16 hours and 35 minutes. Representatives of the MP factions and groups please rise on the third floor. Just make it quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, we did not last much of what we promised, for 10 minutes we took our break. But please come into the session room, we'll continue. Yeah, I can't see until the break initiators arrive, or they want to say three minutes. Then, as they come along, let me inform you about the meetings of the Conciliation Council. It was extremely peaceful, harmonious, and constructive. [[Applause]] That's what this is about. It was no longer at one meeting of the Conciliation Council that the factions that had taken a break today, that we had requested such a decision to be included in the agenda and accordingly dealt with with the Bills 7540 was a draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, 7183 - draft law on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of individuals and citizens, and Bill 7373 - on the prohibition of political persecution and restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens on political grounds. [[on the issue of the National Deputies for Receivables]] You can see that today we have these bills in order today. At a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we agreed that, first, I will now put to the vote the proposal that we were considering yesterday at the Conciliation Council to work until the conclusion of all the issues. That's the first one. The other one. At 5:30 p.m., about 5:30 p.m., because we won't interrupt the question if it does, but at about 5:30 p.m., I'm going to put the session room on the agenda of the three bills that we have today in the agenda just to put them in the agenda of the day, so that we can go to the profile committees, tomorrow we have a meeting of the profile committees to discuss. One of the committees has already discussed this is the Rules Committee, and on Thursday we could look at these bills essentially. These were the arrangements. So be careful, I'm putting to the vote who's in charge of continuing the session today until the agenda is concluded? [[16:48:15]] For 116 The result was understood. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine regions" want to work - 40, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 12, People's Party - 25, SPU - 17, NPP - 1, SDPU - 6, Democratic Ukraine - 1, "One Ukraine" - 6, SPTU - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, Postfraction - 5. Yes, please, one minute Shurmi and we will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u19	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm addressing all the national MPs. I probably don't understand what's going on in the hall. On the left side of the flank, there are MPs from the "Our Ukraine" bloc, winners of presidential races that are integrated into Europe, who want us all to join the World Trade Organization. There are two representatives - one minister and another minister, the MPs have not drawn up, they violate the Constitution, the Ukrainian State Service Act and corruption. And they do not vote for us to sit and work until night or evening, and their laws are passed. So they lied to people, lied to people, and would continue to lie. Well, how can it be that the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc don't vote to continue their work day? At least one of them is blushing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, specific names were not called, so we are working on a plan. We need to put the following bills into the agenda and consider the reduced procedure. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the shortened procedure for the draft Act amending the article of the First Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals. Registration number 7563. Vote. [[16:50:58]] For-103 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 64, Communists, "Ukraine" is zero, "Timoshenko's Block 30, National Party - 2, Socialist - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, Social-Democratic Party - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 2, "The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 0. Write your motives, please. Three minutes. Please, Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine. Rodion's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u21	I ask you to give the word to Boris Bespalam, the representative of my faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u22	Please, Boris Bespali, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u23	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." First of all, I want to tell my respectable colleagues in the Social Democratic Party that they don't care too much about the problems and the bills that they're blocking because of their work. Secondly, we all know that we care about the quality of drafts, not just the number, including their lobbying initiatives to support them. It's different. Third. I'm surprised at why, after the consensus board, where we've reached some arrangements, they're doing everything they can to tear them apart by creating tension in the hall. And fourthly, I'm talking to my colleagues, especially those participants, those parties and factions that are represented in the government, that this is a common government position, which is in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine, and I'm asking a group of bills for Ukraine's entry into the WTO, which is still consolidated to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u24	Please, Mikhail Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u25	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u26	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u27	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The Communist faction will not vote for the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. As a result, And we urge you to do so. First. Under any bill, there is no projected economic impact on Ukraine’s WTO membership. That's the first one. It's different. We don't have specific calculations on the state budget losses from entering the WTO. Third. I want you, my dear colleagues, to draw your attention and ask, first of all, the first wave of shock therapy that has been given to Ukraine's economy, it has touched the lives of specific people. Artists or. Those who have conceived are those who are in power today. The second wave that is being offered today through the WTO is not just the capture of our economic space, it's a blow, a violent blow to the domestic manufacturer, the manufacturer. That's why the faction won't vote and I'm asking you not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u28	Matvienkov Sergei, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u29	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! To date, the steel industry is indeed in a critical situation, not only in the steel industry, but also in the economy as a whole. To date, 10 March ovens, 10 domain ovens, 2 converters have been stopped. In May the country lost 240,000 tons of iron. The forecast for June is 500 to 600,000 tons. The ports currently have a million and a half million unrealized metals. It's the metal that enterprises can't sell today. And we are in this situation, in a crisis situation, instead of supporting our producer, we are opening borders today on scrap exports. Speaking of which, we're referring to SOT. No questions asked, in the EU we have barely 3 per cent of total metal, scrap metal, the rest goes to our competitors, who are our main competitors in the market for our metal products. What are we doing? China has grown so far, and if it goes at this rate, we will have 400 million tons of production in China by the end of this year. And we're trying to compete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u30	Oleg Belarus, please, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Apparently, everything has already been said, and the need for my speech has fallen away. If any of your colleagues want to say a word, take my 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u32	Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u33	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. I would like to answer to my esteemed colleague, who suggests that we should vote together. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine comes from those positions that we should vote in solidarity for those bills that are in the interests of the Ukrainian people. If we see that there is a bill that needs further deliberation, we will abstain from such a vote. So the two bills that are being proposed for scrap metal have a warning in our faction, and we've made a consolidated decision that we're not going to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u34	Communication took place. Perhaps it's a respectable colleague. After the break, we didn't immediately get involved in what we had to do. Therefore, with your permission, I am voting on who is to return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of article 7563 on amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:57:19]] For 1052 The factions, please don't come back: "Our Ukraine" - 62, Communists, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 2, "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 4, "Democratic Initiatives - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 0, "Industry, Entrepreneurs" - 0. Yes. We're working on it. Your consideration of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the reduced procedure is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Export, Export and Black Metals Act, registration number 7565. [[16:58:32]] For-82 I, indeed, am an honorable colleague, and we will now show the factions in the factions. I can't understand the draft laws exactly the same, just to one article, and then to the law as a whole. So maybe we should've been together? Yes, please, on the factions: "Our Ukraine" is 44, Communists, "Ukraine" is zero, Block Timoshenko is 29, National Party is 1, Socialist is 0, Ukrainian People's Party is 2, Social Democrats is 0, Democratic Ukraine is 0, Yes, I see there's a need to exchange, sign up, please. Please sign up for three minutes. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin. Simonenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u35	Yuri Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland Defenders, I was in favour of breaking this Law, and now I want to give you my word, I want to give you the word of Cosachenko Alexia, he'll complete the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u36	Please, Alexy Kozachenko, the time left by Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw the attention of the Hall to the fact that sometimes we solve state-wide pressing problems in this way. First of all, I'd like to speak to the Minister of Economics. Mr. Terjohin, I'm addressing you. Until the Ministry of Economics has listened to the profile committee's opinion on this issue, I think that's how legislation is adopted. Listen to the experts. And I think we're going to find an idea with you in general, how to solve the problems that the WTO is facing us, and how to protect a domestic manufacturer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u38	Thank you. But for the sake of justice, I would like to make it clear that this bill has been supported by the profile committee and recommended that it be accepted as a basis. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the faction of Communists will not support this bill, resulting from the abolition of the ban on the export of junk, colourful especially metals, leading to the mass export of raw materials from Ukraine primarily by re-exporting through the regime of contracts, free trade and so forth. A colossal blow will take place on Ukraine's economy. There will be a significant decrease in the volume of metallurgical scrap metal processing, primarily in our domestic businesses. Our Ukrainian workers will be out of a job. The budget will not receive money. People won't get paid. Significant budget losses are expected due to unjustified VAT compensation for exporters. That we don't know how in the Azov Sea the nails were loaded, and then billions of them were given VAT, so let's say, coming out of what they just, let's say, put the stamps on export. It's going to stop the raw materials from coming to domestic businesses, and it's going to be a complete stop for one or two months. So the faction of Communists will stand for national interests, vote against.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u40	Please, Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, in 2005, we usually do things first, and then we think. Let my colleague, Matvienkov, tell me about the consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u42	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the essence of the law is very simple: to remove the ban on the export of scrap and the dalliance scheme against what we have fought for no year in this room. One thing is, the consequences are very simple: elevators, trolls, cables, memory boards, the monuments themselves, everything about the colored scrap is going to be a whole new way. It doesn't make any sense. We don't have a raw material base for color enterprises. We don't have a natural commodity base. And we're still taking out the wreckage. Plants such as Artemovsky, Interstop, Interstop -- all these major manufacturers will be stopped because there will be no commodity base. We've been working so hard on ISO-9000, ISO-902, but we've found a reconciliation option to remove these garages, and now in one move, we want to put all of this into someone's hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u43	The heated discussions took place. Let's try to put it to the vote again. Who's to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Exportation of Black Metal Waste and Debt, registration number 7565. [[17:03:35]] For-79 The factions, please. Our Ukraine -45, Communists -0, Ukraine -0, Block Timoshenko -25, National Party -1, Socialist -0, Ukrainian People -3, Social-Democrat -0, Democratic Ukraine -0, Ukraine -1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -4, Democratic Initiatives -0. Shurma's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u44	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to appeal to you. By what time will the vote continue to be faked? I'm going to dictate who votes in "Our Ukraine." These are all the co-conspirators of the deputies that are now in the fields. Peter Oliynik is in the district council session. Bondar and Stoyko have already been deprived of parliamentary authority by a court decision. Atroshenko, Yehanurov, Yvchenko, Žebrovsky, Katerinczuk, Polishchuk, Stacks, Tjak -- these are all co-conspirators, violators of the Constitution. They are paid in two places! They are violating the Law on Corruption! They represent power today. And the greatest fighter for justice, the fierce friend of the Social Democrats, the architect of the dog house is in Lviv - Kenzior, his card is still voting here! So how many of them are going to fake 40? They've got 10 lip votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, let's use parliamentary statements. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of bills amending the article of Ukraine's Second Insurance Act. [[for non-resident insurance companies]] These are registration numbers 7564, 7564-1. Please vote. After the vote, I already announced. [[17:05:52]] For a hundred and Sign up for three minutes, please. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a few circumstances. First of all, we've come from voting for metallurgy to completely different laws. So I think it's just an inertial vote to stop. The other one. Nevertheless, despite the controversy of our colleagues, I would like to take another look. We have five factions whose representatives work directly as ministers. I like it, I don't like it, we say there's collective responsibility. There can be no such thing as the faction represented in the direction of the government does not support the decisions made by the government. So once again, I call attention to those colleagues who represent the factions represented in the government, yet to the particular necessity and morality of the agreed vote, not to their efforts to be more holy than the Pope of Rome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u47	Please, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u48	Please give the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka, director of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u49	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u50	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I think that those who didn't vote showed true patriotism about the Ukrainian people. And those who voted want the same insurance sector of the economy, that is, the business today, under the control of foreign owners, and they just destroy it by law to protect national Ukrainian interests, and pass the insurance business on to non-residents in Ukraine. So "Uncle Sam" comes to Ukraine, promises the people of Ukraine, invests money, insurance policies, all this, let's say, falls under control of the foreign capital and thus destroys the economic independence of our state. Capital will work abroad, work on other financial structures. I'm actually surprised that this government was formed by the nationalists who are now destroying the economy and the independence of the state. The Communist faction will not vote for the other decisions that touch the WTO today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u51	Please, Alexy Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u52	Alexei Korsakov, Ukrainian Region faction. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u53	Please, Bronnikov's microphone, Vladimir Kostinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! The question raised here is the right to exist. And if it were just to put the matter in order of the day, it would be possible to discuss and support this issue. But we must be professional in any matter. We have a little bit of the financial system of the country, not to mention the fact that the National Bank has set us up for the dollar. And the relationship between this weak, but already functioning financial market, the international financial market, we need to ask professionals, we need to study fully, because we all enjoy the financial market, both physical and legal. In such a statement, the law i.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u55	Let's include and learn. Who's to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bills amending the article of Ukraine's Second Insurance Act, registration numbers 7564, 7564-1. [[for non-resident insurance companies]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:10:08]] For-92 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 38, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, Block Timoshenko - 25, National Party - 20, Socialist - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, Social Democrats - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Only Ukraine" - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfractional" - 0. Dog's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u56	Respectable National Deputies, revered Adam Ivanovich! I would like to tell you that, to date, all the bills relating to Ukraine's accession to the WTO, as well as all the policies that are currently being implemented by the current Cabinet of Ministers, have acted against the interests of the Ukrainian producer. Today, the Supreme Council has shown once again that it has probably remained one State body in the country that is fighting for the interests of the Ukrainian people, not for the interests of foreign capital. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to vote on any law that will lobby Ukraine's accession to the SOT. I believe that they are not to be considered or voted on today at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, well, your right to object, but the right of the authors of the legislative initiative to put their bills in place. And we are obliged to address this issue in the session room. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda and today's review of the draft law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport, registration number 7570. Please vote. [[17:12:08]] For 185 The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 47, communists - 0, Ukraine - 0, Block Timoshenko - 33, People's Party - 18, Socialist Party - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, Social Democrats - 8, Democratic Ukraine - 16, Ukraine - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 4, Democratic Initiatives - 2, non-fractional - 3. Let's trade. Please sign up. Yeah, because it was 185, let's take five minutes. Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u58	I'm asking you to pass the word to Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u59	Please, Boris Jakovitch Bespali microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the final vote is nearer, so it gives rise to optimism. I think we're about to come to those agreed decisions that we've come to on the board of consent, and in the process of discussing these issues, so that we don't waste time, I'm just asking to re-vote, assemble, call on those MPs that may not have joined us yet and support this bill, incorporate it and essentially support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u61	Yuri Solomatin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u62	Simonenko, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u63	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u64	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction will not vote on two fundamental issues. First, this bill, once again, I would like to emphasize that this anti-Ukrainen Government provides that Ukraine is a waste dump for Europe. They'll be bringing all the cars that have worked there for almost eight years, and here, it's said, I've been working my life. That's the first one. Second. The Government has shown that they are not going to develop the domestic automobile that we have and that there is a base. And there's a car building, and let's develop the Lviv bus factory, let's build the Lücke car factory, the Zaporozhye car factory, and help us increase the number of jobs. People will be paid, urban infrastructure will be developed, the budget will be filled. That is why the Communist faction categorically calls upon all comrades, in order to ensure the future for our people, not to vote in favour of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u65	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u66	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko I think some people got lost here because today's truck is mostly coming from cousin Russia, it's lawns, it's ZIL, it's other cars, Kamazi. And it was just before, like, five years ago. This machine can serve for 15 years. But it is written in the law that the older five cannot be imported. This law is intended to be imported up to eight years old. So there's nothing anti-Ukrainian and anti-Ukrainian at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u67	Mikhailo Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to get back to constructive work. And the appeals of those who suffer from proletariats drive on expensive Mercedeses and ban people who, unfortunately, don't get paid to buy Mercedes like some of our colleagues do, these cars have airbags even, unlike Russian cars, they're less in trouble, security above, and allow our citizens to import these machines that match the level that was accepted in Europe, it's just to allow this middle class to drive those machines that allow their well-being. And I want to say it again. We don't have a car to build our own. Some sold it to Koreans. This is not Ukrainian automobile construction. Let's go back to the vote, who sold it, and who did, that Ukrainian light car, unfortunately, is no longer in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u69	It's been a while since you heard Nestor Schuffrich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I want to reassure my predecessor who has been speaking, your block has long, really, not been on Mercedes, it's moved on Maserati, Bentley, Roll-Royce and other similar cars, sometimes we see Ferraris, or Mercedes, you're not interested in it for a long time. Today I want to explain our faction's position, we can't support absolutely all the laws, because in the condition that today, in the history of Soviet independent Ukraine, nine domain stoves have stopped working, martenian stoves are closed, we can't vote for such laws. Personally, those who today will cause the metal scrapper to be exported. First, our domain stoves are ruled out, and then they are supposed to contribute to the output of the same domain furnaces as metal scraps. We're definitely against it. And that's where we're going to stand. The laws that will contribute to the development of the national economy will be supported by our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u71	Nestor Ivanovich, it's not about metallurgy, it's not about domain stoves, it's about transportation. Yes, please, Basil Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I, like many other non-frustration deputies, believe that this bill should still be considered. There are many questions related to time periods or the term of residence. Or we're talking about figuring out and looking at the problem essentially. Today, there are many reasons to say that public transportation in our country cannot provide our manufacturer, including the Lviv plant and many others. The State, unfortunately, is also not able to finance enough. And our socially vulnerable segments of the population find themselves without public transport. There is a problem, it must be considered, it must be found to compromise, at least to speak and find the golden middle and a constructive one for which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is always fighting and working. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u73	Yes, they did. I am voting for a motion to return to the vote, to return to the vote, to include in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport, registration number 7570. [[17:19:47]] For-170. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 83; Communists - 0; "Ukraine" - 0; Block Timoshenko - 32; People's Party - 18; Socialist - 0; Ukrainian People's Party - 24; Social Democrats - 0; "Democratic Ukraine" - 0; "One Ukraine" - 9; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3; "Democratic Initiatives" - 0; non-fractional - 1. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the summary procedure of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. [[on the admission of Ukraine to WTO]] [[Registration number 7566]] [[17:20:47]] For-166 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -77; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -0; Block Timoshenko -34; People's Party -21; Socialist -0; Ukrainian People's Party -23; Social-Democratic Party -0; Democratic Ukraine -0; "Only Ukraine" -7; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -3; Democratic Initiatives -0; Non-fractional -1. Write your motives, please. Please, three minutes, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that laws should be read by those who submit. The law prohibits imports into the customs territory of Ukraine for the continuous use of buses and trucks that were manufactured or used for more than 8 years at the time of import. I'm speaking on the basis of that bill, Adam Ivanovich, which has just failed. And I'm absolutely conscious of that. Not the next bill, but the one that failed. So I would like not to be misled by someone who talked about the gigula, who talked about what, but by people reading the bills. And that's what I'm stressing. Because that's how radio people don't understand what's going on. And then it goes, "Our Ukraine" something out there wanted to do something like this, or the Party of Defenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u75	Mr. Sergey, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u76	Adam Ivanovich, Simonenko, please pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u77	Please, Simonk Peter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u78	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Why the Communist faction would not support the bill. And because the current norm of the Ukrainian Master Code stipulates that Ukrainian citizens can do audit work, that is, evaluate our property, our good, give a valuable assessment only to Ukrainian citizens. Now, at the request of the foreign rulers of today’s government, which has formed today’s political system, it is assumed that citizenship should not necessarily be Ukrainian. So the foreign uncle is going to come and appreciate what our factory, your press, your house, and all that. I mean, with good intentions, we're known to lead to hell, we're actually sold with babies and record speeds. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u79	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, this law and I are running across from our father to hell again. We have a law with you to amend the law, a new law on economic societies. We have a table of changes in civil, economic, and economic codes. We need to understand how we will use our property in Ukraine, how we will deal with it, and how we will monitor the way we follow it, not the other way around. Let's get things straight. Therefore, for this law, it is too early to consider it. We need to consider the previous law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u81	Who's for going back to the vote to go back to the Act of Amendments to the Ukrainian Act of Audition, registration number 7566, please identify yourself. [[Please!]] [[on the admission of Ukraine to WTO]] [[17:25:25]] For-166 It's exactly the same. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 76, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 1, "Timoshenko - 33" - National Party - 19, Socialists - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, Social Democrats - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 9, "The Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 0. [[United]] Dear colleagues, come on, I'm also going to the government, and I'm going to the government, and from the fact that these bills are being tabled by the President as urgent, let's hold consultations on these issues. There is a proposal for inclusion and consideration of the short procedure of the draft Ordinance on the Calling of All-U.S. Veterans' Action "Together We Are the Force!" Registration number 7624. Please vote. [[17:26:51]] For -208 By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 25, Block Timoshenko - 6, People's Party - 24, Socialist - 23, UNODC - 1, SDPU - 18, Democratic Ukraine - 18, "One Ukraine" - 11, SPTU - 10, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, Postfraction - 8. The motive is to write it down. Yes, please, three minutes, Bespallian, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u82	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." I, my dear colleagues, would like to continue the subject raised by our colleague in the faction of Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Quite a bit of unanimity at the moment was, in principle, a declarative decision that made no concrete changes. Well, a few nice words, no more. At the same time, you have now failed a bill that would allow more cheap cars to be imported into Ukraine, even though they are quality enough to be available to the same people you are supposedly saving for. That is, to date, cars can be imported only up to five years ago. The government, on the other hand, offers, and rightly suggests, that we raise it to eight years. So 6-7 years to a good car is normal. It's cheaper, it's accessible. That's not why you vote. That's why you say a few nice words. That's how you really care about the Ukrainian consumer, about the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u83	Please talk about the bill that is being considered. Please, Simonenko Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u84	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Maybe someone didn't get it. I'm asking you very much: let's support it. This problem relates to Afghanistan and other military operations involving our citizens, Ukrainians. And in this case, last week, there was a lot of action here near the walls of the Supreme Council of Members of the Movement to help restore the committee that destroyed the current power and destroyed the Committee on War Veterans. And I believe that this criminal step has been designed to destroy the greatness of their feat. Indeed, they did what the Family demanded of them in the corners to which they were sent, and today they want protection from the side. And we support the demands: reinstatement of this committee, consideration of housing, housing, health care, i.e. operations, financing of their health, assistance to children in higher education. Please hold, please! Adam Ivanovich, I ask you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u85	Please, Paul Sulkowski, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know that as for all the previous questions, you've come back very well, democratically to vote. So there is a suggestion: I must support the previous speaker that this is an extremely important decision, an important question for Ukraine. Therefore, there is a request: To return to the vote. The MPs just didn't get together. I'm sure we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u87	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u88	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear friends, I will not discuss with those friends of ours who called this decision irrelevant, I support my colleagues. If tens of thousands of participants in Afghan events have come from all regions to Kiev and so forth, why do we say today that this is a secondary issue when the fate of these people is resolved? Another issue: The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine made a statement in this regard when tens of thousands of Afghans were under the walls of Parliament. The head of the Supreme Council himself went out to them, and he spoke, and he promised that Parliament would support it. This is where these people need to be supported. And I say, one more vote, and I'm going to put this decision to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u89	Mikhailo Ratushny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u90	Dear friends, the faction of the Ukrainian National Party will vote in favour. Only we want to consider the issue of veterans, an objective, compromising approach to UN - UPA veterans. Oh, you're funny. So you only have one veteran, and the other one is no longer a veteran. Therefore, we are ready to vote in favour of this decision when it is returned to this question. But we ask for the objectivity of those who merely divide the veterans into their own and strangers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, literally two words. You and I may still have a bit of momentum in the Soviet Bills. Look, please, at the verdict. This is about the fact that, in connection with the liquidation of the State Committee, which has been abolished, it is sadly suggested that the Supreme Council was. The Civil Council of Veterans was created as an advisory body. That's the whole point of determination. The Civil Council of Veterans, which, as it were, would have been in Parliament, would have assumed certain coordinating functions on the basis of public principles to carry out the issues that the State Committee had dealt with in its own time. Who would like to go back to the question of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, please vote. [[17:33:10]] For 267 We're back. Who's in charge of including in the agenda and considering the draft decision to refer participants in the All-U.S. Veterans' War Together Force, registration number 7624. Please vote. [[17:33:42]] For 282 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 8, the Communists - 56, the Ukraine - 49, the Timoshenko - 9, the People's Party - 28, the Socialist - 27, the Ukrainian People's Party - 13, the Social-Democratic - 20, the Democratic Ukraine - 20, the only Ukraine - 12, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, the Democratic Initiative - 13, the non-fractional - 16. [[united]] Dear colleagues, is it necessary to discuss or vote on the offense? Vote? Then I put the vote on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a decision. Please take it off. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! You did the right thing voting for this decision right now, that's right. Just because the Afghan Veterans' Association came to us, they were standing here in front of us, in front of the Supreme Council, remember. We were approached by the Military Service Committee, because the short-term State Committee, Adam Ivanovich has already told you, a short-term National Coordination Centre for the Adaptation of Military Personnel released from the reserve or from the conversion of former military personnel. So I would like to add here to paragraph four: "To address the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, with a request to consider the question of the return to the establishment of a state body that would care for the issue of war veterans and veterans - participants in foreign conflicts, fighting in the territories of other states." That's what I'm going to write down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u93	Yuri Anatoliyovich, is about what you said, it now sounds like the fourth paragraph: "Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to review the decision to eliminate the Ukrainian State Committee on Veterans." Dear colleagues! Then let's write, "Let's go to the President of Ukraine and recommend the Cabinet of Ministers. " With such an amendment in general, do we make a decision? Vote. [[17:36:23]] For 292 The factions. Our Ukraine is 9, the communists are 56, the Ukrainian regions are 48, the Timoshenko Block 19, the People's Party is 30, the Socialist Party is 27, the Ukrainian People's Party is 12, the Social Democratic Party is 20, the Democratic Ukraine is 20, the only Ukraine is 13, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 11, the Democratic Initiative is 13, the non-fractional -14. [[united]] The ruling has been taken in general with the regulation that we have agreed with you that we should ask the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to reinstate the government's administration of veterans. Yes, dear fellow believers, we will carry out our arrangements on a conciliatory council. As I told you, we agreed that around 5:30, we would discuss the inclusion in the agenda, just the inclusion in the agenda, without consideration today. Include in the agenda of the day session, without consideration. It is up to the vote on the day-to-day draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, concerning the concern of the Ukrainian National Deputies with regard to the takeover, registration number 7540. Please vote. [[17:38:11]] For 217 In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 46, Block of Timoshenko - 0, People's Party - 23, Socialists - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 12, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 11, non-fractional - 15. Please sign up for the procedure. Yes, please, three minutes Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I always say frankly what I am voting for. I didn't vote for this offer and I'll say why. We're talking about 150 deputies or 200 deputies. And one MP, who is the subject of the appeal, is not enough? Not a little. It has to be about something else, it has to be about the fact that there is no legitimate attorney general in Ukraine, it's about the fact that in Ukraine there is Parliament's will, the will to do so, under pressure, including calls from abroad to a non-legally appointed person, to judges, and so on, unfair, not competent actions. That's why. We need to put in deeper, let's now ask the question of resigning from the wrong person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u95	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u96	Thank you. Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I share Karmazin's point of view, but what I'm trying to say is, before you dig deeper, you can dig deeper. This should return to the consideration of the matter and for the time being, make a decision on the following days. We ask you to go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u97	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u98	I ask you to pass it on to Paklešenek, Alexander Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u99	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u100	Alexander Pecklusenko, Party of the Regions, faction of the regions. Dear colleagues, we each have party issues, faction issues, but there are things where we can and should be together that are consolidated. That's exactly the question. I very much ask you to come back and vote in favour of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u101	Andrew Schlell. I don't see Andrew School. Please, Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u102	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, right now we are deciding, in principle, one thing that may be of value for the future. Today, we're talking about 150 people's deputies as a team that can guarantee and take responsibility for them. Today we're talking about that today's Hall and Consolidation in this Hall can help because tomorrow this Hall will work. And today the principle of position is to vote against it, because Social Democrats vote for it is not a position, and it's a wrong position. So I urge all my colleagues to return, who has not been able to vote, to the vote on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, it's about getting into the agenda. Today we do not consider this question. That's the first one. The other one. When we look at it, I'm talking to Yuri Anatoliovich, and we're actually going to see if one or 150, or 20, or 15, is going to be in the process of dealing with the issue. That's one thing. And second of all, most of all. Dear colleagues, let's not forget that everything is flowing, everything is changing. Today we don't want to, and tomorrow we'll ask. Who is in favour of returning to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on National Deputies, please vote. [[17:43:31]] For 212 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, Block of Timoshenko - 0, National Party - 19, Socialist - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "One Ukraine" - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 11, "Afterfractional - 15. Dear colleagues, I think we all understand. And let me tell you, you can criticize me later, but I'll make my prediction. Not today, tomorrow, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, not the next plenary week, I'm confident that you and I will include this issue in the agenda. But before we do, you and I can lose a lot. So once again, let's not break the deal. We agreed that we'd put him in the agenda. Those who raise their hands will now have the opportunity to speak, but I urge you once again, and I ask that if you want to see the bills that we have so much, the bills that are defined by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers as prime ministers, let us work. Because you understand that the question will not be included in the day - to - day routine, and we will be with you constantly in recesses and disagreements. And every agreement and break, as our practice with you shows, ends with what? It ends with us making decisions, losing a day, two, three, a week, or two. So please write again, please, for reasons, let's exchange and let's work constructively. Please sign in. Yeah, we'll take five minutes. Please, Yuri Carmazin, Police prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remember what you said when we used to block the rostrums when you raped the Constitution, I would like words to continue to speak to my colleague on the Bespali faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u105	Boris Bespali, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u106	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Yuri Anatolyovich. Sadly, with sadness in my heart, I cannot thank Adam Ivanovich, for he did not say exactly what was agreed upon at the conciliatory council. We reached an agreement on the Conciliation Council, and we all made it happen that at 5:30 a.m., the question of the inclusion in the agenda of this bill will be put to the vote without hindrance. But of course, we did not agree on who or how to vote. Similarly before that, we agreed that the WTO laws would be laid down earlier, but we did not agree on who or how to vote. Of course, we cannot support the bill on the inviolability of friends of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u107	Andrew Poliyet, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u108	Thank you. Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u109	Please, it's Yuri Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u110	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! There's a wonderful Ukrainian saying, "In every house, it's true." Unfortunately, we often cannot grasp the truth of other colleagues, even though we try to prove our truth to be the most painful, worthy of attention and support. Let us treat you more tolerantly with the pain that our colleagues from other factions have when they offer to listen to their thoughts. That's the first one. And second, there's another saying, "My house is from the country." I would not like this proverb to be applied to this matter. God forbid any of us get into a house situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u111	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! First of all, thank you for your position. Colleagues, this is not a simple law. You understand that there are specific people behind this law, there are specific names. And anyone who does not vote for this law today takes responsibility for these people. That's the first one. Second. Adam Ivanovich, I voted twice in favour of this law: the first time I didn't do the card, the second time I showed up. This shows that there's some kind of mechanical error. It is on the subject of my vote that I would like to reiterate this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u113	Please, Vitaly Corge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u114	I'd like to give Victor Taran a word. TERRITO V.V. [[Taran]] Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear friends, the bill we are talking about has not been discussed on the committee. Next. Then there will be a blockade of the parliamentary rostrum, requiring that the following bill be considered: the prohibition of political persecution -- which was also not considered on the committee concerned. It will be appropriate for others. So it's already a system. They're trying to push out bills that weren't even considered on committees, because it's conveniently a political force, even though in the Supreme Council, there are only dozens of bills that people are really waiting for. It's about making changes to the Victims of Political Repression Act, about solving the problem of investors who put their money into trusts, and so forth. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, there is no need to push something that does not push.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u115	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u116	Melniczuk faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear friends, I will not judge the actions of my colleagues, because everyone has the right to act as his will dictates. But I want to say why the faction doesn't vote in principle. Just because the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine over the past month and a half required us to take a step in the end -- to support the peasants: to spend oil products, to improve, to consider social issues, to consider the gasification of villages, not just from Parliament's rostrum, but to support the Ukrainian village. We certainly didn't block Parliament's work, realizing that there were a number of other bills being passed, and that the village didn't want to go as far as it wanted. But as soon as the early crop harvest begins, everyone will realize that the socialists were right. And we're not going to block the rostrum, but we're going to demand consideration of the agro-industrial complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u117	Please, the author of the Vladimir Volodymyrovich Hare bill. [[and the jeweler of today]] Microphone. Please turn on the microphone, Vladimir Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u118	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Now, I'm not going to talk about legal motives or politics about adopting this bill, they certainly are, I can do it very well. But I now appeal to you as fellow national deputies. Since when is the right of the legislative initiative taken to the deputy by not voting on the agenda? I don't insist that you adopt this bill today. Let's bring it in. Let's look at it essentially. If the Supreme Council has arguments that deny it, we just won't accept it. But I think Adam Ivanovich why this question is being blocked today. The thing is, maybe part of the people's deputies are blocking it because they're already appreciating it in fact by referring to the findings of the Science and Experimental Authority, which has been added as material to this bill. I'm going to tell you in authority, legal people say it's illegal, it's not wrong, so I'm going to insist on putting it back in order of the day, and it's already in the room to decide whether or not to be in this bill. I'd like you to bring it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, I am particularly addressing the leaders of factions and groups. Let's remember how much time we spent talking to you about these bills. That's enough. And we've come to a conclusion, not once, when we're going to a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we have to get it into the agenda, and let the session room look at it. And one more thing. I don't see a big secret right now, because there were about 30 people's deputies, if not more, and this meeting was stenographic, and the author of the idea of a similar bill is Minister of the Interior Yuri Lucenko. When we listened to the prosecutor and the Minister of the Interior after the events in Uzhgorod, Yuri Lucenko said, "There's an option, I'll give you a hint. Make appropriate changes to the bill." And after such an initiative was taken by the minister, a group of national deputies took advantage of his initiative and passed a bill. So let me ask you again, I'm asking you to understand that we need to work, to be included in the agenda, is to be included in the agenda. And it doesn't matter if you look at the committee or if you don't look at the committee. We're not looking at it today, we're putting it in the agenda, and we're going to work, by including it in the agenda, we're going to look at other bills. Let's get out of here, okay? I'm not gonna talk. Please, who for going back to the vote, please back up. Let's vote more friendlyly. [[17:55:14]] For 230 We're back. Who is in charge of including in the agenda the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Concern of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Seizures? [[Registration number 7540]] Please vote. [[17:55:45]] For 232 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 56, the Ukraine - 49, the Timoshenko - 4, the People's Party - 24, the Socialist Party - 0, the Ukrainian People's Party - 0, the Social Democratic Party - 20, the Democratic Ukraine - 20, the only Ukraine - 19, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12, the Democratic Initiative - 13, the non-fractional - 15. [[united]] Thank you. I'm going to the profile committee, and there's a few committees, one of them's already looked at, find an opportunity tomorrow to consider this bill and come to a conclusion. Questions are included in the agenda. We need to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 7183. [[on the protection of personal rights and freedoms of persons and citizens]] Please vote. [[5:57:02]] For 230 Thank you, the question is on. In factions, please: Our Ukraine is 0, the Communists are 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 4, the Timoshenko Block is 1, the People's Party is 20, the Socialist Party is 3, the Ukrainian People's Party is 5, the Social Democratic Party is 20, the Democratic Ukraine is 19, the One Ukraine is 19, the Industrials, Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 13, non-fractional - 15. [[united]] And another bill on the inclusion in the agenda of the Law on the Prohibition of Political Persecution and Restrictions on the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens by Political Signs, registration number 7373. Please vote. [[17:58:03]] For 252 The factions, please make the decision. Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 49, Block Timoshenko - 14, People's Party - 26, Socialist - 8, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "Only Ukraine" - 19, Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs - 12, Democratic Initiatives - 13, non-fractional - 15. [[United]] Thank you, dear colleagues, for your support. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. A draft law on the protection of rights to scientific discovery, registration number 6414, is under consideration. The head of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, reports. Please, Mikhail Kuzmich, three minutes. Dear colleagues, let's work for 15 minutes, we'll have 2 bills, we'll take them, we'll do everything we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an offer to return to scientific work. Reasoning for the adoption of this law. First, given that Ukraine has declared the path of innovation in society, it is essential to stimulate the creative activities of scientists. The other one. The discovery is the highest scientific achievement. There is no doubt that there is an objective need to regulate the rights relationship. Third. The first step on the road to this, as you recall, was the adoption of the new Civil Code in Ukraine, which has already determined the discovery of intellectual property. Hence, the need to adopt a law comes directly out of the codex. It's about structure. The project consists of 6 chapters, of 31 articles. It defines legal, organizational, economic principles in the field of legal protection of scientific discoveries, personal not property and property rights, strengthens the system of state registration of scientific discoveries and expertise. It is proposed that the legal protection of scientific discoveries in Ukraine be carried out through state registration, diplomas, recognition, and enforcement of rights and benefits for authors. In the general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the first reading of the draft law was based on further observations. Of course, there is. But all of these observations are positive. And when you talk about the National Academy of Sciences, there's probably no National Academy of Sciences. Hence, there are suggestions in the first reading to enact this law. And of course, all of these observations that are, in the second reading, will be further developed as necessary. There's an offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u121	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Have a seat. I don't think there's any need to discuss it. Have a seat, please. It's a reduced procedure, no questions asked. What's the introduction? I understand what you have to say, but you're not written down, please excuse me, you're not written down. Yes, do those who signed up insist on speaking? Yes, Melniczuk, please. Turn on the microphone. I repeat, behave yourself. You're in a session room, not out on the street. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, microphone. We haven't gone through the procedure yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u122	All I have left is to express the faction's position. The faction will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u123	Sherschun, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u124	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. The faction of the National Party of Ukraine will support the proposed bill, which provides a comprehensive solution to the spectrum of social relations that arise from the discovery of previously unknown but objectively existing patterns, properties, and phenomena. light that makes profound changes to the level of scientific knowledge. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u125	All those who wanted to speak. Yes, please, Solomonine, a minute. Out of the way, please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, the law is excellent. But it is not clearly prescribed, and we need to work on it. If the scientific discovery is done, when the work was done at the expense of the state, it's one order of proof and copyright, and if at the expense of a Ukrainian entrepreneur, another way is possible, and if at the expense of a foreign investor, it's a completely different matter. An example. There was an institution, the Ukrainian Science and Technology Center, which became a pump for the discovery of Ukrainian scientists in the military and industrial complex to other states. We must work with this bill in such a way that discoveries remain in Ukraine and work for the Ukrainian people. Thank you very much. The law is right. Follow him in the first reading to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u127	Yuri Carmazin's microphone. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Adam Ivanovich! George Carmazin was the first to be recorded. I'm asking you not to take it into account. Now it's about this law. The law is extremely crude and in terms of the terms given here, and even in terms of scientific discovery, and even in contravention of the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, where everything is actually monopolized by the institutions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'm very supportive of this institution, but when I see that we're funded today, we still have those institutions that have made the discovery that Kuchma, it turns out, was just one term, and today they're funded by the State Budget, they're providing expertise, and then I have a question, do I need to rework this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u129	Vladimir Cherniak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u130	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, no matter what the Syrian law says, the water is dripping out of it, but I tend to support it in the first reading, otherwise there will be a second reading procedure. It's about protecting intellectual property, not just the disks that we're focused on, but it's about protecting scientific discoveries. And it's very important to protect our Ukrainian scientific discoveries. Of course, we're going to have to write more clearly the defense mechanism, we're going to have to define more clearly the terms, the concepts, the scientific and technical expertise, we're going to have to write some mechanisms to overcome the monopolies of the Academy of Sciences, and that's also necessary. But in general, conceptually, we can now support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u131	Please, Mironenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u132	Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots! Any bill has some flaws, and in general, if you hit it, you could call it raw, and so on, or for some other reason. But this bill is a contribution to developing our science so that our science can serve the national economy. On that basis, I would like to support this bill in its first reading. The second reading will take into account all the proposals that each MP has the right to make, including those that said the bill was raw, I think he is also a patriot, and will vote in favour of the bill. And besides, respectable compatriots, let's probably think about taking it up on second reading as quickly as possible, of course, by doing well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u133	Ivan Hare, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u134	Give the word to Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u135	Please, it's Chubarov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u136	I thank Ivan Alexanderovich. And I'd like to tell the chairman quite another thing that I'd like to say to the author of the bill. You know, I don't know how you can register fictional inventions, especially those that happen in this sessional room when the chairman wants to push the laws in which he's personally interested. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from 16 hours in this room there is no Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but his card votes. This card is above you. This is a new invention that we can make. And this should be included: the law that the author is now reporting to us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m1.u137	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. All who had the opportunity to speak spoke. With regard to the bill, as it were, you know that we both know about the fat and the meat, and the milk, we have written bills about sending the Ukrainian battalion to certain states. It is the right of the authors of the legislative initiative to write what they write. And you and I are only allowed to have a single organ in 226 to determine whether to give way to these bills or not. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the protection of rights to scientific discovery. Registration number 6414. Please vote. [[18:10:01]] For 293 The bill was adopted in the first reading. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -49, communist -55, Ukraine -37, Timoshenko -21, People's Party -26, Socialist Party -26, Ukrainian People's Party - 17, Social Democratic Party - 9, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 15, Industrial Party - 8, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 10. [[united]] Well, the following two laws are pretty serious, of course we're not going to consider them in five minutes. Therefore, at this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. For 15 hours, we will be holding committee meetings and parliamentary hearings on the issues of the fuel and energy complex. Good luck.
