ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:38]] There were 390 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorary colleagues present in the diplomatic bed are members of the State Assembly of the Republic of Hungary’s National Assembly of Inter-Parliamentary Relations with Ukraine headed by Vlasta Gazda. Let's welcome our colleagues and wish us common success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on March 15, 2005. Six issues of the agenda were considered: four bills and two draft regulations. Government Day was held. And according to the results of our work, one law has been passed, two bills have been rejected, one bill has been transposed, two decrees have been passed. On March 15, 2005, the Central Electoral Commission registered Biruk Lviv Vasilović, Davimuku Stepan Antonović, Žižka Sergija Andriyovich, Kurovka Jurija Zinoviovich, Muhin Vladimir Vasilovic, Pak Volodymira Petrovic, Ratushno Mikhal Jaroslavovic, Sadov Mikol Ilic, Sidorenka Mikolu Yakovic, Uljanko Vru Ivanov Ivanovno, Shevchenka Vitalija Fedorović by the Ukrainian National Deputies in a multi-mandatory popular constituency constituency by the political bloc of Viktor Jushtenka "Ukraine" and the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. People’s deputies of Ukraine, Biruk Lev Vasilovich, are invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all means, caring for the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u3	Yes, dear fellows, let us welcome our colleague and wish us fruitful work. Davemuka Stepan Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u4	I, Stephen Davymuk, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all means, caring for the welfare and well - being of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Stepan Antonovich as we join the parliamentary family. [[Applause]] Zizko Sergey Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u6	I, Ziszko Sergey, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Sergey Andryovich and wish him fruitful work. Yuri Zinovyovich curve, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u8	I, Yuri the Hooker, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Yuri Zinovovich. Muhin Volodymyr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Vladimir Vasilovich with his oath. Again, Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u13	Let's welcome Vladimir Petrovich. Ratový Mihailo Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u14	I, Ratushny Mikhailo Jaroslavovich, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine and all my actions to care for the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Mikhail Jaroslavovich. We want productive work. The garden of Mikola Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u16	I, the Sadducee Mikola Illich, swear allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Mikola Illich. We wish us a job together. Sidorenko Mikola Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u18	I, Mikola Sidorenko, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, welcome to Mikola Yakovich. Ulyanchenko Vera Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u20	I, Ulyanchenko Vera, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u21	Let us welcome the faith of John and wish for all. Shevchenko Vitaly Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u22	I, Shevchenko Vitaly Fedorovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let us welcome Vitali Fedorovich back to the MP family. Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies Muhin Volodymyr Vasilovich and Sady Mikola Ilic as part of the Socialist Party's parliamentary faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and the protocol of the Assemblys of Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Ukrainian People's Party, I inform you of the formation of the Ukrainian National Party's parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 March 2005. The Ukrainian People’s Party is composed of 19 Ukrainian national deputies. You've been given a personal composition of the MP faction. The leader of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Dept. of Ukraine, Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, was elected. The People's Deputies of Ukraine were elected as Faction Commissioners: Valery Mihajlovich Assadchev, Alexander Mikolaiovich Gudima, John Alexander the Rabbit, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Now let's move on, dear fellows. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the arrival of the Ukrainian National Deputy Gorbatov Valerija Mironović as part of the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council regulation, I inform Ukraine's National Deputy Stepan Ilković Cloud of the composition of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc Timoshenko, the political parties of the All-Ukrainian Union "Batakshina", the Ukrainian Republican Party "Sbor", the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party and its membership in the Ukrainian National Party's parliamentary faction. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" of articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform of the membership of the Ukrainian People's Party's Party of the People's Party of Ukraine of Sidorenka Mikoli Janović. James? I'm sorry, I just haven't got it yet. Honorable People’s Deputies, in accordance with articles 2.5.2. Wednesday's rules are 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I ask the factions and the groups to submit their statements, and in the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Well, we'll finish the procedure later. These are regulatory issues. Questions came from Ukrainian national deputies: Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the funding to complete the construction of the historical museum in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:52]] For 302 I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:17:13]] For 324 Decision taken. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOVA to the President of Ukraine regarding the worsening of the environmental situation in Hersonska, which resulted from the submergment of populated areas, the flooding of land and the need to declare its territory a technological disaster. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:17:51]] For 266 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:18:12]] For 251 Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Lisin and Mr. Left of the Peace to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of constitutional requirements for the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities by the People’s Deputy Igor Franzuk. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Head of the State Property Fund for the clarification of the implementation of Article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Privatisation of the State Housing Fund and Article 4 of the Order of the Fund of the State of the State and of the State of Sustainable Development of 28.03.1996 No351/26. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the completion of the reconstruction of the clinic in the village of the red Army village of the Red Army region of Žitomir. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen in the metal combination “Cruvoristal”. Olga GINZBURG to the Prime Minister on the right to an inheritance, on the reduction of the payment for the conversion of documents to one of the spouses instead of the deceased. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister in connection with the inactivity of the Ministry of Justice and the authorities of the State Tax Administration in withdrawing alimony from a citizen to support a minor child. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the 2005 State Budget of compensation for aid to former UN-OPA soldiers. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister about the allocation of housing for disabled persons in the sight of the Hmelna Regional Organization of the Blind Ukrainian Association. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for violations of State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the project “Create an analytical and information system for Ukraine’s energy complex”. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the prevention of unlawful privatization of state property. Vladimir DEMOCHIN to the Prime Minister regarding compliance with the requirements of current legislation on the social protection of veterans of the Armed Forces. Ms Vladimir Lještenka to the Prime Minister for financing the completion of the school in the village of Koryukowka, Chernigiv region. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister on the need for assistance to residents of the poor town of Kerch and Lenin district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Prime Minister on gross violations during the privatisation of the Uzhgorod polygraph-publisher „Potent” and the need to review it in the interests of the labour force and the state. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister on the appeal of the Council of Private Entrepreneurs on the termination of article 45 and article 73, paragraph 40, of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget and the removal of the legal co-operation between the legislation on the simplified system of taxation and the legislation on compulsory public social insurance. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the Investigation of the Disclosure of State Funds, particularly in large-scale terms, through the Structures of the Crossroads, the Artemis Charitable for People Foundation and a number of associations with limited responsibility of the Kirovograd region, which were headed for the election campaign of Viktor Yanuković. Vassila NADRAGUA to the Prime Minister for the repair of roads in the area of the Kamyanobrid district of Lugansk. Mr. Constantine SITNIKA to the Prime Minister for the development of the Feofania Garden and National Acquisition Facility, the Herbar of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister on the critical condition of providing mineral fertilizers for the domestic production of Ukrainian agricultural products to the spring-planting company in 2005. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for financing the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the city of Sudak. Vladimir NOVACA to the Prime Minister for the provision of information on the causes of underfunding in 2004 on health programs in the Hmelnicka district. Ms Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Prime Minister for the verification of the legality of the privatization of certain public property in the city of Sevastopol. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Prime Minister for the premature and unwarranted closure of coal mines and so-called “mines” that continue to develop and provide mining areas with jobs and essential for the use of raw materials. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister is being compensated for the late payment of aid to miners in Novovolinska Volinska District. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the introduction in Ukraine of scientific and technical developments aimed at protecting the environment. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for violating the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Reforming the Agrarian Sector in the New Ukraine Region of Kirovograd. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the inadequacy of the transfer of the Academy of Medical Sciences to the Ministry of Health. [[BAUER, DRACHES, AND OTHERS]] Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister on damages caused by drought and floods in 1998, 2001 to residents of the villages of the Tachiv district of Zakarpat district and on the verification of abuses in the allocation of budgetary resources for these purposes. DAVID’S people to the Prime Minister about the unsatisfying condition of automobiles in the rural area of Kharkiv. LeonidaSVATKOVA to the Prime Minister for the return of the premises of the Ukrainian Institute of Research and Research for Sugar Industry. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Customs Office for the Prevention of Abuse and Monopolization in the Reprocessing and Recycling Market. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister on ensuring that prices and quality of medicines are controlled. Mr Mikoli NOSENKA to the Prime Minister for the mass refusal to carry out the tax inspection of article 5 of the Ukrainian Income Tax Act. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister for the prevention of the collapse of spring and field labour in the Vinnitsky region. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the heads of the Security Service, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the threat of national security and the authority of the State as a result of social destabilization in the Lugansk region and taking into account the interests of the electorate and the political parties of the “Power of the People” constituency during the personnel appointment of the public authorities, giving proper assessment of the commission of crimes by candidates for leadership and appointed persons, their close links with representatives of business entities. Sergia BICHKOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the facts of criminal misconduct by the management of the Malishev State Enterprise, the requirements of a valid legal and regulatory framework. Anatolia GREZYEVA to the Prime Minister on the appeal of the Council of Private Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and the City of Kagarlik of Kyiv Region on the termination of article 45 and article 73, paragraph 40, of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Prime Minister for the solution of social, medical and pension problems for the veterans of the Armed Forces. MICHELLE TO THE Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Hanivkah in the region of Kirovograd. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister for the creation of a working group for the First All-Ukrainian Championship of School Teams of the Jolly and Smart Club. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the problems of preserving the Lower Prowl Arena of the Hersons. Mr. Stanislav PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the inadequacy of the liquidation of the 17th Military Clinic in the town of Koveli Volin County. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the RNBO, for obstacles to the development of maritime transport in connection with the economic unwarranted increase in wages for the use of freight wagons in ferry transport. Michael Bauer to the Cabinet of Ministers for the prosecution of the Director of Vocational Technical School No. 8 of the City of Chernivci for political beliefs. Anatoly Hirschfeld to the Cabinet of Ministers, Attorney General, Head. The State Property Fund on the provision of information on the state of efficiency of government corporate rights management in the statutory fund of the Open Shareholders Association of the Leasing Company of Ukraineinvest. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valerija Samoplavskih to the Cabinet of Ministers on the blocking of the issuance of tools for the implementation of the production of the Zirnian Spirit Plant in the province of Riveznih by the Department of Administration of the Excise Assembly of the State Tax Administration and the “Ukrcspirt” concert. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to First Deputy Prime Minister on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Sorting of Nuclear Security Issues. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the preservation of Ukraine's unique basic magnetic observatory “Dimer”, whose data are in real time coming to the world's network of magnetic observatories. Anatolya KZŁOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the provision of funding for a pilot project on the reform of the housing and utility sector of the city of South Ukraine. Mr. Eugene HYERNIKA to Vice-Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka on violations of the national private television channels of legislation regarding the promotion of alcoholic beverages and the non-use of appropriate control services to prevent such violations. Tarasa ČORNOVILLA to Vice Prime Minister MikoI Tomenka on the placement on the external media of Victor Yushchenk's advertising material, the sources of payment for them and related corruption and financial damage to the state. Gregory BONDARENKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikolia Tomenka about the inappropriate response to the breaking-up of the newspaper The Herald of Chernobyl. Alexia BABURIN to the Attorney General for the return of property certificates to members of the former “Avantgarde” College in the district of Zaporozhye. Michael DOBKIN to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Security Service for the criminalization of officials guilty of crimes against a government official in Ukraine. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for the unlawful actions of the Mikolai village head of Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General for the verification of the eligibility of housing from the special housing fund to officials, such as the deputies of the Truscavetsk City Head and the heads of the structural units of the Mesquikonkam. Constantine SITNIKA to the Attorney General on the gross violation of the rights of private entrepreneurs in the “Child World” market to engage in commercial activities by the national deputy Vladislav Atroshenka. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General on smuggling and illegal activities of Ukrainian State institutions to facilitate the commission of the crime. JOURIA KLECHKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the incomplete investigation of the case of voting for false reassurances at several polling stations in District No. 211. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the verification of corruption activities by officials of the Lviv City Council on the illegal recalculation of funds by individual public utility companies of the city to the private enterprise “Arshba” on the basis of the payment of measures related to the celebration of the anniversary of the birth of the first deputy of the Lviv City Head. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney-General, Minister of Transport and Liaison concerning the abuse of the service position of the previous management of the University in the application of the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on tariffs for the carriage of goods by rail. MICHAEL SETINIE to the Attorney General for the execution of numerous court decisions by various institutions regarding the reimbursement of funds for illegally removed metal products for the scientific and educational association Osteosynthesis in the Zakarpatsky region and the restoration of lost jobs that are essential in the mountainous region. Anatolya RACHANSIAH to the Attorney General, the Minister of Education and Science, regarding the failure of the European city’s law enforcement authorities to respond to the court’s decision regarding the persons who took over the office of the Head of Education of the city of Eupatoria. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General for the request of the Ternopil District Council to verify the legality of the sale of the property in the village of Miskovitsa. Mr. Mikoli Karnauha to the Attorney General, Minister of Defence on unlawful acts and gross violations of legislation by the management of the State Department of Defence’s Department of “Ukrainian Aviation Company”. Anatolia MOROZA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the head of the Kirilov Village Council of the Yakimiv district of Zaporozhi district regarding the legalization of the right to land of the Havriluk family. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General on the enforcement of valid legislation in the process of reforming the collective agricultural enterprise “Red Partisan” in the Tarostian region of the Kyiv region. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Fuel and Energy concerning the determination of the circumstances of the illegal arrangement of leases of property rights between the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine and the limited liability company Elite, which caused damage to the State budget. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General on the violation of constitutional human rights by the employees of the Kirovograd Office for the Fight against Organized Crime and the illegal detention of members of the territorial electoral commission of electoral district No. 100. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Attorney General on the abuse of office and the violation of legislation by the management of the State Department of Defence’s Ministry of “Ukrainian Aviation Company”. Ms. SLABENKA to the Attorney General regarding the illegal payment of salaries and other monetary payments to the former Head of the Volin district administration of Anatolia Frances. Anatolia Domanskih to the Attorney General on the abuse by officials of the district government when selling property to the airport in the village of Levkovka, Izumi district of Kharkiv district. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Attorney General for the protection of the interests of the State in the person of the public enterprise “Bilocerkowska Research and Selection Station” for the compensation of the damage suffered. LUKJANENKA and Mikhail VOLINZA to the Attorney General for the inadmissibility of pressuring the judge of the Pecher district court on behalf of the Attorney General’s Office. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General on gross violations of environmental legislation and the 1989 Basel Convention on the Control and Disposal of Transboundary Movements of Dangerous Wastes when imported into Ukraine from Hungary. JOURIA KLECHKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for an inappropriate response to the MP’s appeal is related to a road accident. Alexia BABURIN to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice for the Non-Payment of Wages at the State Enterprise Azoslimash of the Open-ended Association of Agricultural Machinery, in the city of Berdjansk Zaporijska Region. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Ternopil Regional Public Administration, on the debt of wages to the employees of the limited liability “ETALON-LIS” village of the Terebovljana Region Friendship. Mr. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney-General for a serious violation of the rights of members of the “Privoksal” cooperative by officials of the Braille Council of the Žmerinsky District of Winnitz. Valérie Lebedivsky to the Attorney General in connection with the lack of a final response to the parliamentary request for review by the Attorney General’s Office for the reasons for the procedural decisions taken by the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev for refusing to violate criminal cases for violating the electoral rights of citizens during the election of the President of Ukraine. Andrija SKILLA to the Minister of Justice on the cancellation of the registration of the All-U.S. Public Organisation “Ukraine National Assembly – Ukrainian National Solidarity Organization”. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the violation of the Odessa Railway and passenger car depot Odessa Head of Human Rights. TO THE Minister of Culture and Art, Oleg PANASOVSKO, for the closure of music schools in Svetlovodsk, Svetlodarsk, and in Mironovka, the Débaltskie district of the Donetsk region. Anatolya RACHAN to the Minister for Emergency Situations for the Ministry’s delay in conducting a bid for the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster at the resort. Kirila POLIŠKUKA to the Defence Minister for housing the Lviv Regional Structural Unit of Ukraine. Vassil Nadraghi to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the transfer of high - pressure gas lines from the balance sheet of the Luhansk district hospital to state property. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the Protection of the Constitutional Right of a Veteran to Work for Retirement. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the minister of agricultural policy for the protection of property rights of members of the former collective agricultural enterprise named Kuibyshev of the district of Chernigiv. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Defence Minister for the transfer of Military City No. 115 to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Berezovka of the Žitomir district of the district of Zitomir. Igor ŠURMI to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for Remuneration of Wage Payments for October 2004 — January 2005 — and Social Assistance to Residents of the village of Bolanovici in the Mostinsky region of Lviv. LUKYANENKA’S left to the Minister of Defense to provide information on the status of military servicemen serving in the peacekeeping battalion in the former Yugoslavia. Vitaly HOMUTINIKA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the illegal actions of the management of the State Makyiv Research Institute for the Safety of Mining Works. Anatolia KOSLOVSKI to the Minister of Health for assisting the Arbusin Central District Hospital in the purchase of the ambulance. Mr. Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Minister of Defense for Repayment of Debt for Restoration of Apartments for Military Service in the City of Dubno Plains. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the corruption of the head of the Regional Bureau of the State Securities and Stock Market in the Cherkas region. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Education and Science for the Elimination of Law Violations in the Education Area of the City of Shahtarsk Donetsk. Oleg PANASOVSKE to the Ministry of Health on the critical situation in the financing of the health sector of the cities of Debaltsev, Svetlodarsk, a village of the city type Mironovské Donetské region. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for the violation of the laws of the “Freedom” shareholders’ association concerning land degradation and their use. People of Kirichenko to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of insulin to patients with diabetes. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the use of appropriate measures against members of the Dniprožinska Dnipropetrovska Police Department, who were discredited by law enforcement authorities during the electoral campaign. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy on Land Disruption and Property of State Research by reordering them to the Ministry. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Ministry of Culture and Arts regarding the financing of the Hmelnicka Cultural Department. Vladimir BRONNIKOV to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the need for the development of national natural uranium reserves. LUKYANENKA’S Left to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the address of the 23th Association of Officers on Ukraine’s accession to NATO. Group of National Deputies to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to withdraw Ukrainian peacekeepers from Iraq and the statements of the leaders of the country who are delaying the withdrawal. [[FIX, PRIVATE, AND OTHERS]] Ms. Alexander BANDURKI and Mr. Mikhail TEMBERKA to the Deputy Director of the National Nuclear Power Plant, Montenegro, regarding the provision of information on the company's purchase of goods, jobs and services at state expense in 2004 for repair work in the administrative building No. 1. Petra SIMONENKA to the Head of the Security Service regarding the provision of information on the facts of listening and monitoring of Ukrainian citizens by trade services and special services. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the General Audit and Audit Office, for the purpose of verifying the efficiency of the use of State budget funds in the city of Uzin. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration on the inadequacy of building a multifunctional complex within the territories of the Kiev National University of Taras Shevchenk. Valery ACOPIAN to the director of the state-owned nuclear power plant Črnobil’s nuclear power plant, about providing information on the company’s purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance for the construction of the Sanitary Pass. Katerina SAMOLIK, head of Kiev City State Administration, prosecutor of Kiev City, on the situation surrounding the lease by the Federation of Sport Complex Tennis of the Open Shareholder Society “Tomak”. Alexander HUDIM to the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, for the illegal construction of the Housing Safety Service in the courtyard of a former prison in Lviv. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Head of Government of the Open Shareholders Association “Kretelekom” for the replacement of the telephone station of the Kalu Power Centre to the more powerful to meet consumer requests. Anatolya MOCROUSOVA and Volodymira FILENKA to the Director of the State Specialist Enterprise “The Chernobyl Atomic Station” regarding the provision of information on the company's purchases of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance and state funds for the construction of manufacturing and fuel technology. Gennady RUDENKA to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the wrongness of setting monopolistic prices for the placement of objects of outside advertising in Kiev. Petra SIMONENKA to the head of the Security Service for the involvement of law enforcement agencies in the operation of the Open Shareholder Association Cherkasigaz. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the head of the Security Service on the facts of the violation of the law in the Ministry of Defence’s apparatus and the application of measures regarding officials admitted to office. Groups of national deputies to the head of the Kyiv City Council on the elimination of gross violations in the construction of a residential building on Starnavodnička Street. [[KLIMPUSH, ONOPENKO, SWEDEN]] Vladimir JAVORIJOVSKI and John GAVRILUK, head of the Security Service for the illegal and cynical construction of a six-story, beautiful house and restaurant in the courtyard of the former NCDV-KDB in the city of Lviv. Petra TLOČKA to the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea concerning the granting of the territory of “Tich Buchta” to the Crimea of the status of a natural-command fund of national importance. Groups of National Deputies to the Director of the National Specialist Enterprise Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant to provide information on the cessation of the construction of the nuclear fuel depot No.2. [[REDOVSKI, ONE, GREZOV]] Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to Dnipropetrovské město, prosecutor of the Dnipropetrovské district on the inaction of the local authorities of the city, as a result of which the housing rights of residents of the Dnipropetrové Theatre of Opera and Ballet and House No.10-B on Sverdlov Street are violated. Valery ACOPIAN to the director of the state-owned nuclear power plant Črnobil’s nuclear power plant, about providing information on the company’s purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance for the construction of a sanitary pass. OSKI to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, to the State Tax Administration of the Kyiv Region for the provision of services to the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal and the Commercial Court. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget for amending the Law on the 2005 State Budget. THE Orbit Jury to the prosecutor of Kiev, the city’s city head, for the illegal destruction of green plants on the top and the slopes of the mountain, threatened the land in the village of Shevchenka on the street of Krasic and the alley of the Zolochev city of Kiev, as well as the hill and the top of the mountain of private capital buildings. Igora SHAROVA to the Head of State Service regarding the legality of the appointment of Eduard Zeynalov as Head of the Provincial Regional Authority. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the head of the Security Service for the violation of legislation by officials of the Open Shareholders Association “Goldennisian Machinery Factory Lepse”. SERgy LAWDEN to the Director of the National Nuclear Power Plant of Chernobyl on possible abuses by officials and the management of the enterprise in the procurement of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance. Boris RYKOVA to the director of the state-owned nuclear power plant Črnobil's nuclear power plant on possible abuses by officials and business managers in the procurement of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance. SINCHENKA and GREGORY OMELCHENKA to the President of Ukraine on the cessation of the construction of the Single State Register of Natural Persons and the economic and political consequences of the Presidential Decree amending the Ukrainian passport and recognition position, in such a way that certain decrees of the President of Ukraine have become invalid. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Dear colleagues, there is a vote in favour of the request from Omelchenka and Sinchenka. [[10:46:07]] For 199 Request supported. Once again, I would like to point out that this is a request to the President of Ukraine, Sergey SINCHENK, and GREGORY OF OMELCHEN, for the termination of the construction of the Single State Register of Natural Persons and the economic and political consequences of the President's decree to amend the passport of a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad and be recognized as having lost the validity of certain decrees of the President of Ukraine. We supported the request. I now put to the vote the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:46:58]] For 307 Decision taken. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of political persecution, the violation of the requirements of procedural legislation, the constitutional rights of human beings by the employees of the Old Samobrian District Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region in the course of the conduct of judicial investigation and the groundless violation of the criminal case against the Chief of Public Security of the Staro-Sembirian Armed Forces in the Lviv district of Petripjan Miron Ivanovich. Thus, honourable n, 135 parliamentary inquiries were made. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 21, "Democratic Initiatives" - 32, "Regions of Ukraine" - 14, "SDPU(o) - 6, "One Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "The People's Party - 9, SPI, "The Socialist Party of Ukraine" - 9, "The Yulia of Timoshenko - 8, "The Union" - 1, "The Will of the People" - 1, "The Centre" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 7, "The Postfaction" - 5. Let's move on to the statements made by representatives of MPs, factions with applications, queries, reports, information. Catherine Vaschuk, a faction of the People’s Party, is invited to attend. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues and voters! The People's Party faction understands the first legislative initiatives of the new government, most of them supporting their votes in Parliament. However, some steps in the agrarian direction are incomprehensible. The foundation of the harvest is laid in the spring. Spring-field jobs need at least 12 to 15 billion dollars of circulation money. That is why basic funding from the budget needs to be channelled in the spring. However, only 200 million have been allocated for January - May to implement all the targeted APC programs, which is only 11 percent of the total funding, while one billion 60 million, or 60 percent, have been allocated for October and December. If they can't finance, well, the village's underfunded. The village needs credit resources, but lending goes very slowly, and the percentages are often not that mentioned in the bank agreement. Efforts by national deputies and the government have taken the first steps towards long-term loaning the village and damages 30 percent of the value of sophisticated technology and new technologies purchased by peasants. For some reason these good beginnings have been annulled by the new government. Agrarian hopes for changes in the budget adjustment, which should be fair to a peasant. And hopefully that'll keep the whole room going. And it is particularly concerned about the faction of the People's Party and the haste with which the government changes the customs tariff by complying with the requirements of the WTO and the European Union without detailed analysis of the consequences for domestic producers. We believe that the support and protection of a domestic manufacturer should be effective. Well-calculated customs tariffs not only contribute to the development of the market, that is, the import of goods, but also primarily to the inflow of foreign investment and the development of their own production. What the government is proposing, in particular, is a group of 124 goods. They're food products. A sharp reduction in customs duties for almost all goods. Thus, the faction proposes to re-examine the production balance and consumption of basic foods for those species that we produce abundantly, there should be no preference. For those lacking, such as meat, the establishment of hard quotas, and the implementation of these quotas, it is clear only to meat and sugar and only to sugar factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski from. Do you want me to turn it on? Microphone, please. You're handing over Kosovo? Mikhail Kosov will speak from the faction of our Ukraine. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u26	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear voters! I have been commissioned by my constituents and countrymen from Lviv to make such a request to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Alexander Turkinov. He's already been mentioned in the MPs' questions you've read, but I'd like to make a point. The thing is, in Lviv, there is a sad old prison on the street of Lonsky, where Ukrainian patriots were punished during feudal Poland, pre-war and postwar years by the communist totalitarian regime. There is no doubt a museum, a memorial. Among those who were in the shadows of that prison were the deputies of the Supreme Council, including me. So building a new house and entertainment sites in that place of suffering and blood is a sacrilege. So we demand that we stop this festivities and build a multi-floor building and a coffeehouse. Obligate the construction firm and the management of the BSS to restore the damaged area with the courtyards of the prison, conduct a comprehensive investigation, identify the initiators of illegal construction, the officials who granted or independently launched this campaign of vandalism, punishment, and the materials of investigation to be published in the press. And there's a museum and a chapel of participants in a national-liberal struggle in the courtyard. Here are the members of the Supreme Council and Roman Ivanichuk, Irina Kalinec, members of the City Council, former prisoners of conscience and political prisoners who were not happy to be in this prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u27	Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz is invited to the presentation. Leonid Kadenuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich Honourable Deputies! Four years ago, for the first time in the modern history of Ukraine, an anti-presidential action was carried out under the slogan "Ukraine Without Couchma". People protested the disgrace with recorded recordings in the President’s office, where he ordered the kidnapping of George Gongadze. Last year, presidential candidates and I, and Yushchenko, and others promised voters: to contribute to a faster detection of the crime. What's happening now is immoral, undermining authority, trust in it. The murder of George cannot be considered exposed until a report has been heard by the parliamentary commission of inquiry, until the Melnick film has been added to the criminal case until the court has declared the verdict. To talk about ending a case when the materials aren't even brought to trial is an empty pierre, it's speculation and no more. Two years ago, or two years ago, the Supreme Council, under the influence of the President's administration, blocked the report of the Georgia Omelchenka Commission. It is a shame that the report is still blocked when those who promised to seek justice came to power. It is even more embarrassing to hear questionable explanations that hearing a report is a violation of a political arrangement. The Supreme Council will first consider the budget and then return to the matter. The faction believes that exchanging the Commission's report for the budget bill is a blood barter. Yet we also consider such an argument. Let's make a decision to put this issue in order, no matter what next week. Otherwise the faction won't be able to vote for another issue. We call on the "Our Ukraine" faction to protect President Yushchenk's reputation, to the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, to support the civil position of your colleague, Omelchenk. To the factions of the former majority, you have been oppressed for three years, you will soon go to the polls, you will prove to the citizens that you are relieved of the burden of addiction and fear. Justice is higher than any other purpose. I urge the vote on the Commission's report at its first session after the budget has been considered. And topic two, today we're looking at a series of laws that relate to the order of the process of acquiring an inheritance for the property of citizens. We need to stop skinning people with inheritance, gifting, or buying apartments. It turns out that people are still to blame for their own good. We have prepared a statement on this subject and have made it public. But I would ask that the Laws on this subject be carefully considered and adopted today. They protect the interests of the vast majority of the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u29	Leonid Kadenyuk, from the faction of the NDP "Republic". Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, I have many appeals from the people of Sokerian and Kielmenacki district of Cherniewecki district. Since January 1, 2005, Moldova has introduced new rules for crossing the state border. And the inhabitants of these areas found themselves in an amazing situation. At the border crossing points, you can cross internal passports, while crossing the railway from Sokeryan in Chernivka and in reverse requires a foreign passport. In the local authorities, I have written and oral complaints that at the Mamaliga and Larga stations, border guards do not miss people living in the Sokerian region, but they only have a passport from a Ukrainian citizen, without foreign passports they also do not sell tickets. The only way to connect with the district center for pensioners and students in the district was by train to Chernivci-Occlusion. Now there are no passengers on this train from the Mamaliga train station to the Sokerians station, which is not convenient to passengers or to the state. The price of a train ticket is much lower than that of a bus. Pensioners, students, other low - income individuals are unable to pay for bus fares. The same inconveniences were created for the inhabitants of the area, which are driven by the Odessa-Yvano-Frankivsky train and in the opposite direction. The inhabitants of the country demand that the simplified border crossing with Moldova be restored, as it was until January 1, 2005. In addition, there is no solution to the problem of the restoration of the Ivano-Frankivsk-Moscow train, which residents of the region could also travel to Ukraine's capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider this a question to the heads of the respective ministries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u31	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is invited to speak from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Oleg Belarus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u32	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, on the outcome of the discussion yesterday's preparations for the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory, the factions of Communists claim the following. On May 9th, the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory of the Soviet People in the Great National War is being fulfilled. The victory over Nazi Germany was won thanks to the mass heroism and courage of Soviet soldiers, guerrillas, and subversives, thanks to the self - sacrificing work of the workers in the rear. The victory was achieved under the direction of the Communist Party and through the Soviet authorities by joint efforts of the cousins of the former Soviet Union and the countries of the Anti - Hitlerian Coalition at the cost of huge incorrigible victims. Neither the time nor any political conjuncturists are able to minimize the universal historical significance of the Great Homeland War and the great victory of the bloodiest war of the 20th century, the insurmountable to forget the great victory and sacred memory of the tens of millions who have died and been tortured. The people of Ukraine, one of the active participants in this war, paid a very high price for defeating a fierce enemy and rightly deserved a worthy anniversary date. We ask the government to stop speculating about their role today and what sort of titanic efforts, and to implement laws that have long been passed and should be implemented by them and for which, by the way, nationalists have not voted. Therefore, in the veterans of the Great Homeland War, all honest people are provoked by the anger and just indignation of the blasphemous initiatives of today’s power to abolish the traditional triumphal festival on Victory Day, to celebrate some banal seat on Christianity. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council strongly opposes the efforts of the new power and its political supporters to destroy the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Victory and thereby degrade the historic significance of the Great Victory. [[old]] We categorically require the President and the government to give today's Jubilee celebrations a broad social significance and sound, to stop the abuse of veterans, to stop the infamous attempts to rehabilitate UN-UPA fascists and to put them on the same level as the winners. By the way, our statement is also triggered by the media coverage of yesterday’s government day. The Communist faction believes that the Jubilee Parade is a national ceremony, an official veneration of the living winners, and a tribute to the bright memory of the fallen. This demonstration of the high patriotism and inheritance of generations, the willingness of the people and their armies to defend the Fatherland is an important, unifying factor in our society at this difficult time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u33	Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, from the Julia Timoshenko bloc faction, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u34	Honorable Presidium, National Deputies, Ukrainian Citizens. Yesterday the Supreme Council made an important decision to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War. We hope that the preparation and celebration of the Great Victory will be a consolidating social factor, not a factor of disunity. National and national solidarity, unification of the work and all the creative forces of our people to solve the challenges of democratization, modernization, reforming Ukraine, increasing its competitiveness is the highest strategic command. The victory of the Orange and People’s Revolution paved the way for a social state and a socially oriented market economy. But the realization of this task depends on the willingness of every political force to cooperate with the national authorities, from the ability of the new authority to carry out a copy of the unifying work. The destructive opposition to national authority by the bankrupt former authorities had long become opposition to the people, an anti-national opposition. The black wolves of the cushmocracy today dress sheep’s skins and soften as the patrons of the people. But Ukrainian citizens well understand who threw them into the black hole of poverty and hopelessness and who should be held accountable. On the other hand, yesterday's disgraceful precedent. The incident in Parliament shows that when a political puppy barks at the Prime Minister, it is not necessary to ask him what he is barking at, but rather to ask his master. The faction brings such acts to trial, and we demand that the presiding officer respond to provocations. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to address the strategic and tactical challenges of state building for the consolidation of the political forces of Ukraine, we propose to create a standing round-table conference of all the political parties represented in the Supreme Council. Such an initiative should be taken by the President as a guarantor of the Constitution, as a guarantor of peace and cooperation in the name of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Jury Ivanovich Kostenko, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, is also invited to the presentation. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian People's Party has consistently advocated independence, democracy and Ukraine's European perspective for its 16 years of political activity. Under the political structure of the Ukrainian electoral bloc and the formation of the People's Union party, we, the MPs of the Ukrainian People's Party, claim to be the creation in the Supreme Council of the deputy faction. The Ukrainian People's Party declares its support for President Viktor Yushchenk's electoral programme aimed at integrating Ukraine into European society and building a developed civil society. The Ukrainian People's Party has been, is, and will remain, the reliable support of President Yushchenk in promoting national interests. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, as an expression of the views of patriotic citizens, will see to it that national priorities are established in all areas of the Ukrainian society. The faction considers the support and protection of the interests of the national producer, the high social standards, the reproduction of the deep history and culture of the Ukrainian State to be one of its main tasks. We see attempts to change the status of the state language as a threat to Ukraine's national security. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party will cooperate with other factions and parliamentary groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine who are practicing the ideas of national democracy and sharing our political principles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u37	Bogdan Hubsky, the "Only Ukraine" faction, is invited to the presentation. Oleg Blochin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that today society requires a new quality of Ukrainian power, because to go back to being a simple person is going to be the ideology of all government structures. It is simple human interests and should be a top priority of public policy. These are the positions that should be at the heart of the legislative initiatives and the programs that we are considering. It is this principle that has been systematically and continuously implemented by the faction of the "One Ukraine" Party. We have done a lot in this time, especially with the initiative of the faction, laws have been adopted: to increase child support to two subsistence minimums -- over 800 dollars, to grant land rations to social workers in rural areas, including doctors, teachers, cultural workers, financing of rural medicine and rural culture from district budgets. As I go on with this topic, I would like to point out that the faction of the new social bills that have already been submitted by the faction is: to increase the monthly care of the child every month to three years is 840 dollars, this is the introduction of state deposit accounts for newborns, where 18 years will pay interest; this is the free provision of community services for health and cultural workers in the country, because for teachers, there is such a standard, and worse for doctors? Of course not. The transfer of funding for schools, gardens from village budgets to district budgets. These are important social issues. And that's why we are very positive in supporting these new government initiatives that are planned to be budgeted for social problems: this is also an increase of one and a half times the wages of budget workers. This is 8,000 dollars for the birth of a child, as well as other social programs. We are very positive in supporting the fact that at last the government will actually implement its social programs, this is the continuation of the policy that we started last year. I think that's why we would see social programs as needed today as a priority. And the main thing today is to find the right funds to implement these programs. The "One Ukraine" faction has made the necessary decisions, about 10 billion dollars can be included in the budget, I think, and maybe this year all of these social programs will be implemented. And that's why we insist that soon the government will make changes to the budget, which will have a social character, so that these changes will be addressed quickly, because social programs will have to be implemented in the near future, and I am confident that our work together to implement the social protection of citizens will be beneficial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u39	Oleg Blochin is invited from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare John Verniub.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u40	I'll tell you everything. Dear President of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Each of us has a greater responsibility to our people, and everyone understands what it is to serve Fatherhood. Those who have not yet understood why I have taken great responsibility for the national football competition in Ukraine on my way to the final part of the 2006 World Cup, my parliamentary speech as a football player. My job as Ukraine's head football coach is my patriotism. As a professional, I considered it my duty to serve to strengthen Ukraine's image in international sports arenas. I have done my job honestly and professionally and with the full effect of moral, psychological, physical strength and results you know. Today, our team heads the tournament table in its selection group, and for the first time in the history of Ukrainian football, even the most pessimistic sentiments are in real danger. However, and I think I will be caught by every, current psychological, moral and political pressure on the part of the Supreme Council just melts the pain, and the joy of sleepless nights, intense training, the physical pain of each of our boys' injuries. Well, I made a decision, and last week, I wrote a statement about the resignation of the head coach of the national assembly. I have the heartache of handing a stick to the leadership of my entire life and my desire to serve Fatherhood. To the Regulatory Committee. If my professional activities at the community level are less noble than those of those of the people who teach at universities, engage in scientific and creative activities, let someone else, on a more legitimate basis, take the national assembly of Ukraine into their own hands. And the second. I'd like to say it in person without it. When the Vice-Chairman of the Regulatory Committee gives an interview, I shall ask you not to use the hearing and have evidence in hand. This is Mr. Kowalya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u41	Ivan Vernidubov is invited to speak from the faction of "Ukraine". Prepare Gregory Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The factions of the "Ukraine" and the "SPPU" all the time draw attention to a series of dangerous facts that are already emerging. Today’s authorities are exerting open, false pressure on politicians and officials whom they consider to be their opponents. In doing so, the judicial branch is actively involved, ignoring the fundamental principle of its independence. In particular, the Primorski District Court of Odessa made an unprecedented decision by completing the request of a national deputy, a member of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Edward Gurvice. As a result, the result of the 2002 election of the city’s head, Rusla Bodelan, was questioned. A hearing is scheduled for another Gurvitsa suit. If he too is satisfied, it is not excluded that the city’s head of Odessa will in fact be declared Gurwitz or the city’s mayor will be appointed. According to the media, this situation has been called unusual even by the head of the electorate. The faction "Ukraine" and the SDPU(o) see the above-mentioned court ruling as a political dispute over an authority, whose views differ from that of today's authorities. Ruslan Bodelan represents the "Regions" party, and this, to our conviction, has been the main reason for us to try to move him out of the post of Head of the City of Odessa. Therefore, we demand that these cases be referred for objective consideration to another region of Ukraine, or to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Moreover, the authorities of the district prosecutor’s office, whose investigators stepped up criminal investigations into facts as if they were falsifying the election of the Head of Odessa, also exerted pressure on Ruslan Bodelan. The Ukraine and SDPU factions (o) claim that today's leadership does not fulfill their pre-election promises, maintain transparency and democracy in their actions. Leaders and officials of various levels throughout the country are being mass dismissed only for supporting the wrong presidential candidate who won the victory. We are determined to put an end to persecution for political reasons and demand a proper response to such facts by the judicial authorities. The faction "Ukraine" and "SDPU" (o) demand that the work of illegally liberated managers and other government officials be reinstated. Our factions point out that the situation in Odessa threatens to spill out in the face of supporters of various political parties and social and political destabilization. We strongly demand that the city community be able to express its position on this conflict without interference from the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u43	Yes. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Yes, we invite Gregory Dashutin from the MP's "Will of the People" group to prepare the Nightnight of Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u44	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs, me. As the author of the legislative initiative, I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the understanding of the support of measures for the socio-economic development of Suma. 350 years from the date of its establishment and adoption in June 2004, the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The regulation provides for the provision of financial support for measures for the socio-economic development of the city of Suma in the 2005 expenditure section of the State budget of Ukraine and for the 35th anniversary of its establishment in the amount of 100 million dollars. In the first reading of the Ukrainian Supreme Council draft of the 2005 State Budget Act, an amount of $10 million was allocated for this purpose. And the 2005 Supreme Council of the State Budget did not provide for these amounts. Given that the celebration of this famous date in August 2005 since the establishment of the administrative, economic and cultural centre of the Suma region has not only regional significance, but the faction believes that the implementation of these measures requires State support. Therefore, in amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 we propose to return to this issue and to invent a possibility to provide a separate line for measures to support the socio-economic development of Suma in relation to the 350 years of its establishment. And to predict those expenses that were decided in 2004, 100 million dollars. So I ask you to consider my speech to be a plea to the Minister of Finance, and I want to hear the answer to the question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u45	Mikola Noshchenko is invited to speak on behalf of the Democratic Ukraine Group. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u46	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160 constituency, Sumska District, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. For more than a month, we have been working in Ukraine for a new government that has assumed the responsibility to radically change the economic situation. Plans are big. What changes can we talk about today? First of all, there's a growing concern in society about the possibility of unpopular decisions, not popular changes. So far, governments have been able to avoid, as they say, cataclysms, inflation, price increases. The Prime Minister's statement on the cessation of all disputes against economic operators by the political sign of a reduction in the number of so-called free economic zones, etc., is also worth mentioning. So the negatives, what's it worth to do is to pull down the footage -- the village, the area. Today, it is difficult to find a center where political passions have not been eradicated. We are also concerned about changes in the preparation of the State Budget Act. Everyone understands that it's not a change, it's a new budget. The press periodically features sensational materials about increasing a certain type of social security. But what happens is unknown. The MPs are practically removed from the preparation of the changes to the budget. In doing so, it should be noted that no draft State Economic and Social Development Programme for Ukraine has yet been submitted to the Supreme Council for approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' programme of activities from February 4 to the Supreme Council. And this was one of the key agreements when we adopted the government's action programme. The MPs are ready to support the changes provided the government offers comprehensive solutions to all social issues. I'll give you an example of the faults that still exist. For example, monthly compensation payments for first - group disabled persons amount to five bracelets today. Four bracelets are added to the pension for donation. The monthly payment for a child is between three and five bracelets. Practically absurd is the amount of help given to drinkers in the purchase of solid fuel. And for the benefits. there is no amount of gas in the budgets. But families with children remain the most deprived. Practically, with the rise in pensions and the help of poverty in Ukraine, there are 90 gravel left for the family. What can you buy, how can you survive? Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are a guarantor of the stable productive work of Parliament. The request of members of our group not to give in to suggestions from both the government and the political forces, the parliamentary groups and the factions to move on to the simplified working regime of the Supreme Council, to deviate from the requirements of the Rules. The MP has the right as the subject of the legislative initiative to make decisions, knowingly not to work under the slogan "Violte, Ukraine is dying" and to push the buttons for which we have been called "buttoncodes". We are sure that in proper consultation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Igor Shurma is invited to the floor. Igor Shurma's right to speak is handed over to the Democratic Initiatives. Get ready to pull the trigger. A group of non-fractionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u48	A statement. The faction of Social-Democratic Ukraine is strongly protesting the government's intention to drastically reduce funding for scientific research. [[united]] According to plans of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is proposed to reduce the cost of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine by 144 million. a bracelet or 15 percent, double the cost of buying new equipment, folding the entire implementation of targeted science and technology programs. In an effort to save money on the basis of the material provision of scientific research, today's authorities are destroying the fundamental gains of the coalition government that led Yanukovic in the science and technology field. The Cabinet of Ministers, at a time when it consisted of a unified Social Democrats, systematically increased the call for scientific research. In particular, in 2005, funding of the National Academy of Sciences was projected to increase by 27 percent compared to the past. In this way, the amount of money that was focused on science was expected to increase by two and a half times compared to 2000. This policy was based on a clear understanding that Ukraine has at all costs to preserve and increase its scientific and technological potential, because only in this way can it claim a decent place in the European Union. Apparently, the new leaders of Ukraine have different views and things like nationals do not go too far. The cutbacks were evidenced by their real rather than their declarant priorities. Plans for the rebirth of Ukrainian science have been crossed out. It comes to mind that by reducing the funding of the scientific sector by 144 million, the government finds 60 million at the same time. The money for the European competition and another 90 million. A bracelet for the rebuilding of the Decade Church in Kiev, though it is unknown to anyone, what was the authentic original appearance of the building. Since the first days of its existence, the Academy has been one of the symbols of Ukrainian statehood. It played a huge role in fundamental applied scientific research. All of this requires adequate funding and priority attention from the government. However, its leaders clearly have no idea of reforming the scientific field. But the effort to save on the science field and to throw scientists away from the pitiful, beggarly and demeaning state in which they were in the 1990s cannot be viewed differently than an act of complete irresponsibility. Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is firmly opposed to reducing funding for fundamental science. [[united]] We call on all the political forces of Ukraine to join us and defend national science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u49	Yes, dear colleagues, Oleg Tuggnibok is invited to the presentation. Ten non-frustration deputies signed for him to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u50	Oleg Tuggnibok, U.S. Freedom Union. Please don't confuse with the Hebish clone. Dear colleagues, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires today's public apology to Moscow for the genocide of the Ukrainian people by the Soviet Union. Even a rough list of acts of Moscow terror against Ukrainians in the twentieth century calls for repentance and heaven. For example, war, which was fought against the young Ukrainian People's Republic and the 18-20 military and political occupation, which was accompanied by bloody terror and looting of civilians, corruption and violent collectiveization, several waves of the physical destruction of Ukrainian intelligence and leaders of the Ukrainian nation, artificial famines of the 21st, 32rd, 33rd, 47th, terror in the lands of Western Ukraine occupied in 1939 as a result of the criminal conspiracy of the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, the killing of prisons and concentration camps and the abuse of Ukrainian patriots, the latter was killed in the Soviet concentration camp of the poet Vasil Stus in 1985, the Chernobyl tragedy of 1986. More than three million victims, forever looted victims, looting people's agriculture, historical and cultural values, stolen savings from citizens, destruction of Ukrainian language, culture, churches, humiliation of human dignity, persecution of national origin, total destruction. Under international law, the above actions are defined as genocide and ethnocid, and the best opportunity to repent against the Ukrainians. Apparently, there will be a visit by the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, to Ukraine, scheduled for March 19th this year. Today, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union asks the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, to put this question before Volodymyr Putin. We believe that such a step of repentance by the official Moscow could be the only prerequisite for President Ukraine's participation in this year's Victory Parade on May 9th in Russia's capital. A public confession of guilt to the Ukrainian people by the leadership of the Russian Federation, first of all its President Putin, will demonstrate Russia's rejection of imperial politics, bring a positive reaction not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world. Repentance is the main prerequisite for the development of good-neighbourly Ukrainian-Russian relations. This is all the more necessary in view of the events of the 2004 presidential election campaign in Ukraine, when Moscow openly intervened in internal affairs and became engrossed in Ukraine's territorial integrity and caused your poisoning, Mr. President. In the event that the above requirements are ignored, the All-U.S. Freedom Union will initiate an appeal to international institutions, such as the UN, the European Court of Human Rights and the Hague Tribunal. Moscow, repent!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the speeches by the MPs have been completed. One moment, dear fellows! Head of the Regulatory Committee. There were claims to the Regulatory Committee. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to explain that our committee's proposal to refer the Supreme Council to the Kyiv Court of Appeal was that the Supreme Council should be submitted to the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the compatibility of its parliamentary mandate with other work. First, these are the requirements of article 78 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as articles of the third Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Second: the Constitutional Court's decision of 4 July 2002 on the incompatibility of the posts of the Cabinet of Ministers and National Deputies has made it clear that the content of article 120, part 1, of the Constitution is incompatible with any work other than teaching, scientific and creative.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u53	No, what's the gmira for? What's the gmira doing here? In what way? We're not here yet, we're done. One minute, let's put the matter under review, then the procedure. Dear colleagues, the issue of "The report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the implementation of the restructuring of the coal sector and its socio-economic consequences, as well as the state of the calculations between the enterprises of the sector in question." There's a proposal for a motive for that. Please sign up, three minutes. Dear colleagues, sign up. Well, it's a matter of procedure. Dear colleagues, please don't stop your work. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We certainly have to consider the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, so too much funding has been allocated to the coal sector. Some 5 billion dollars were found in a poor country. This area is divided and nearly half of them have flowed into the hands of the oligarchs on shadow schemes. So I would like to hear here not only the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, but also the opinion on this account of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine and the opinion on this point of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. And finally, what I'm saying is that today was a brutal lie about what's happening in Odessa. In Odessa, everyone knows that as early as 2002, there was a false election, which is why the Attorney General’s Office had already committed a criminal offence under the Bush regime. So today, by protecting Bodelain, you are protecting criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, this is Andrew Politt, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u56	Andrei Polit, Company faction, please pass the word to Sergei Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u57	Sergey Gmira, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Commie faction, I'm in session. The Communist faction is impressed by the sequence displayed by representatives of the ruling coalition during the gap. The BUT faction is being civilized in front of the eyes. Three months ago, she offered to hang her opponents on white scarfs, yesterday, just to shoot them, and today she's offering to go to court. That's good, of course. The representative of “Our Ukraine” complains of the savage and uncivilized actions of the lion authorities, although the lion authorities are your authority, which, among other things, declared Viktor Yushchenko President not only until his second, but also before his first oath. A representative of the socialists, forgetting that an agreement had already been signed between our Ukraine and the socialists on the need to investigate the Gongadze case, had once again made a strong appeal to his coalition colleagues. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u59	Yes. Dear colleagues, we still have Kirilo Polishchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u60	Kirilo Polishchuk, Ukraine’s Christian Democratic Party Please pass the word to Conovaluku Valerius Ilchi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u61	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Valery Konovaluk, 62nd District, Donetsk. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to discuss today's issue. The daily record is the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine and the name Plačkov. I see in the government's bed only the national MP Topolowa. The question therefore arises: How, in general, does the Government plan to address very important, serious issues, issues that concern not only the whole sector but also the economy in general. That's why there's no information. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, he has no information that is now evidence of the restructuring and socio-economic state of these enterprises. So, I think that if the Supreme Council doesn't respond seriously and influencely, the government will try to present the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! I will now read you a letter signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on this issue. "We are informed that, in view of the fact that Minister of Fuel and Energy of Plačkov Ivan Vasilović is taking part in the meeting of the President of Ukraine at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March 2005, the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the introduction of the restructuring of the coal sector and its socio-economic consequences, as well as the state of the accounts between the enterprises of the sector in question, and the draft law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, Number 5120 will report to the first Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Topolovok Viktor Semenović." Maybe that's how we could do it. Dear colleagues! Maybe that's how we're going to make a deal and move forward, and I'd like us to make this compromise decision. In principle, if we need to consider this issue, it is obvious that we should talk about the report in advance because the minister did not work for the month. Maybe we should get it. Just a minute. I'll make the offer to the end. One moment, dear fellows. Maybe we should ask questions like information. That's the first one. The other one. Get some written information first so that we can analyze it. And the third. To get this information. Can I finish? To be reported by the Minister of Fuel and Energy. Dear colleagues! Obviously, I made a proposal, and now we're going to ask the initiator of the draft decision to express his point of view on this point. I told you, Peter Mikolaiovich. The Supreme Council will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! What is happening in the coal industry today is the final destruction of it. Therefore, every attempt to address this issue today, at least for a day, on two, is a critical situation for the Supreme Council in the first place. Why? I want to tell you this. In April, the miners, we don't want them to sit down, they don't pay money for four months, they don't finance the industry, they don't own it, they don't own it. They're going to sit down, the government is going to give it all up, and we're going to be the extremes that we've adopted such a budget. And today the lobbyists in this room want us to leave for a week, for two, for three. They will approve the budget with the assistance of Majdan, and thus the Supreme Council will be to blame. I'm the author of this ruling, I've made a decision. The Supreme Council should vote in favour of the draft regulation today in a consolidated manner. We must offer you civilised ways out of this situation, force the Cabinet of Ministers to make a decision and thus ask it in May how it implements. And to go along the way that Vladimir Mihajlovich is asking today, the report is to take responsibility for the consequences in the Donetsk region, and I mean the Lugansk region. Thank you. Therefore, I strongly object to the transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, then perhaps in this way, if the Conciliation Council has already taken a decision and there is insistence, then perhaps we should adjust the formulation of the question. Then let's say, "The Department of Fuel and Energy report on deployment." continue to follow the text. Then we will analyze the field, not the work of a person. If you agree, dear colleagues, to report now to the Prime Minister's Deputy Minister, let us consider the matter. Is there no objection? None. Please. What is the objection if a decision is made? Dear colleagues, we will have more discussion. What are the objections? Yes, please. Boris Jakovic, this is a matter accepted by the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council agreed to report to the first deputy. Please let him report. I suggested she wasn't accepted. Please. How long do you need? Dear colleagues, this is the order for consideration. Report delivered by the prime minister’s deputy minister for 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are 10 minutes. Fifteen and ten to twenty - five. And 20 minutes is a discussion. Is there no objection? That's 45 minutes. Fifteen and ten to twenty - five, and twenty discussions. Forty - five. Please, Victor Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. To date, the country's critical fuel and energy complex has been concentrated in the coal industry. In that sector, which for almost all years of independence has been described as a guarantee of Ukraine's energy security. To date, however, there is still no clear comprehensive public policy on its development. It is from this, in my deep belief, that the main problems of the industry are. That is, it is unadapted to market relations and permanent permanent reform processes. Few people, or perhaps no one, today are able to answer a simple and, on the other hand, a very important question for the coal industry: how much coal should be mined in Ukraine, for example, before 2010, 2015, to ensure the energy security of the State? Without an answer, discussions are under way as to how many mines need to be stopped, how much to build, and whatnot. One consequence of such an approach was the frequent change in the course of reforms and the lack of consistency in their implementation. In fact, each new team of managers has radically changed the foundations and management mechanisms of the industry. Of course, this has had a negative impact on both the efficiency of coal and industrial management and the deterioration of the relationship of potential investors, as well as various social groups in mining regions, and on the structural transformation of the industry. There is a mining wisdom: one reorganization is worse than two fires. Therefore, our policy must be based on a coherent evolutionary path for the development of the industry. I started out with this because we have a duty to you to realize that reorganization is one of the elements of achieving the main objective: the financial recovery of the coal industry, not the goal itself. With regard to the restructuring that began last year, I would like to note that a short period of study of the problem due to the low working time of the Ministry does not allow me to express a clear position. However, the following should be noted. At first glance, the restructuring of the industry was based on logical and effective approaches. This begins with the adopted Ukrainian Coal programme, which was adopted in 2000. An algorithm was set for preventing the collapse of the coal industry. In doing so, the programme was expected to allocate between 5 billion and 6 billion annually. Budget. But it became clear that the State was unable to provide such support to the coal industry. New solutions were needed using internal reserves. Therefore, the main thrust of the restructuring was the creation of institutional and economic forms of the coal industry, which would be able to work effectively in the market environment. To this end, in the coal sector, government coal mining companies have been established in the form of unitary enterprises instead of former holding companies. Thus, it was planned to achieve the concentration of capital centralization, the formation of a closed production and technology cycle for coal production. Secondly, it was decided to establish three regional coal-producing companies: two coal-based energy companies located in Lugansk and Donetsk, respectively, and one coal-producing company located in the town of Makeevke, which serves as local coal- and energy-producing centres. Nevertheless, the public has recently taken sides. It must be said that these decisions had, at first glance, been agreed with trade unions, with the heads of local councils, including the regional councils. Nevertheless, there have recently been numerous complaints from the public about recent structural changes and, in particular, about the establishment of regional companies by trade union organizations. At this point, I would not like to make a final assessment of the decisions taken regarding the establishment of regional companies and their effectiveness. But at first glance, from what I've been able to understand, I think the truth should lie in the middle. This is an attempt to create mega-large companies, three of which I don't think are the best options for today. Clearly, there must be a major increase, because we have a decomposition of coal mines from middle-day zero to almost 20,000 tons per day and a dispersion of 500 tons -- less than the smallest mine, up to 36,000 tons. Having all the controls around small mines or small compounds is probably too much cost, but to form complexes that are difficult to manage, it's probably also wrong. The beginning of the next stage of structural change in the industry could be seen as the creation of a national shareholder company, coal Ukraine, in 2004. The idea of the company's education is not new and is based on both the national and world experiences of the education of such companies in the fuel and energy complex. The establishment of companies allows the following issues to be resolved. First, to achieve the concentration of effective management of the sector's organic resources, the establishment of a single material management centre, the financial resources of the industry, will improve the efficiency of their use. The company will be able to influence the price level of equipment and materials used in the production of coal products from wholesale purchases. On the other hand, it is a centralization of the sale of coal products, which will make it impossible to produce shadow schemes for coal and price dumping. Secondly, this is an increase in industry's investment attractiveness. In order to create an enabling environment for more effective involvement of non-State investment resources in the coal industry, it is projected that the burden on the State budget will be reduced and that there will be a real possibility of creating vertically integrated structures for the production of energy and coke coal with the participation of the coal consumer. Most importantly, the creation of companies allows for a change in the governance of the coal sector In the current market conditions, it is essential to separate industry management functions from ministries and departments. The Ministry, in practice, had been involved in the management of business activities of subordinate enterprises, namely: cost management, income analysis, use of funds, payroll issues and so on. In doing so, the work did not always achieve the necessary results. Today, the Ministry aims to focus its efforts on the implementation of economic, social policies in the fuel and energy complex. This is, above all, the implementation of the State's energy security package, the optimization of the country's fuel balance. The direct management of coal enterprises should be carried out by the National Shareholder Company Coal of Ukraine. With regard to the current state of the industry, it must be said that this year the industry is still unstable. Some enterprises have not implemented coal mining plans, and wage problems have already been created. They are, of course, not those who have been expressed here for a four-month delay, thank God that is not, the wages are almost paid, but there are still outstanding outstanding debts, there are examples of non-payment of salaries already today. We must say that we have received a very complex legacy. The industry is actually balanced. An attempt to address the problems of the settlement of the old debt resulted in the diversion of money that was spent on self-sustainment and on technical rearmament, which was directed towards the repayment of old payroll. In addition, loans -- 260 million additional money -- were taken, a total of 320. Now it's time to put out the credits, put in the lava that we're behind in development, have to maintain the current self-sustainment that is obviously lacking in money. And last month, indeed, there was a problem with the payment of wages. Our analysis shows that she can. Well, we decided by taking credit, we have to say. We see today that the problem may be this month. But it will not result in a failure to pay the wages. In particular, what the Ministry intends to do. First, we want to conduct inventory, audit of coal industries in terms of ownership and deal with everything that has gone away from the State into private hands: to the extent that it has been lawful, to the extent that it has been fair and to the extent possible to improve the effectiveness of these units. Secondly, this is the introduction of systematic tight monitoring of the targeted and effective use of enterprise budget and own funds to prevent their dispersion or dispersion, so to speak, through effective pricing mechanisms. It is already a matter of increasing the price of energy coal before. First of all, last year, it was amazing to me to know that we had lowered the price on. This, on energy coal, is intended to increase its order by 60 bracelets and significantly increase the purchase price for coked coal because it flows into private hands from public enterprises that are now being reached by the State and at a clearly low price. Creating conditions for the implementation of transparent mechanisms for the implementation of coal products. There should be no coal produced in public enterprises in the private market. I don't understand where this coal comes from in private hands. Let's move on. Implementation of competitive arrangements for the provision of budget funds for technical reconfiguration. This must be done in a transparent manner, with the involvement of the public, through trade unions, by an understandable algorithm, by whom and how much budget money needs to be given, when and why. That's what everyone needs to know. Improved solicitation of equipment. We're all great. Well, those who know the coal industry, we all know exactly what's going on in this market. A monopolized coal machine dictates prices today and dictates where they should be sent. There is a serious need to deal with this issue. Disposal of so-called investment programmes when equipment is provided at an overpriced cost and then coal is removed at a fixed price. Of course, an increase in wages is due to the fact that coal mining is not only not being implemented by the wage-enhancing laws and the factor that the contract industry should be there. But we still have mines where the minimum wage is actually higher, but all tariff rates are still based on 101 bracelets. Third. We need to reform the mine structure so that we do not lose it to the end. Work is under way. Fourth. Change of criteria in the ideology of how to eliminate coal enterprises. Even this year, some 800 million budgeted in the 2005 budget should also be more transparent and understandable about where and where this money is directed. Fifth. This is, of course, an improvement in labour protection. Why? Because it's trauma. Nothing can be more precious than humans, and nothing can be forgiven, any gain if we lose people. And the sixth. We must establish a public programme of understanding that if we change the form of ownership and a number of coal enterprises to transfer, sell at auctions or other rules, this must be made public, transparent and at the level of public programmes. Once again, I would like to return to the question of the structure of industry management. We were at a special committee meeting on this issue, and it was decided to establish a special commission that should consider issues and develop proposals within three weeks, may even give regulatory functions to this decision, a Cabinet decision or something else that clearly defines how we proceed with reform, within what time frame, to discuss this and only then to carry out what was intended by the previous Government. I think we already have proposals from the committee, there are proposals from ministries, there are proposals from science. [[5 People's Deputies]] Yesterday, the Minister signed an order and in the coming days, we will gather together, establish a programme and, after the three weeks that the Committee has given us, we plan to present the sequence of the changes that we consider appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. So while the recording is coming up, dear colleagues, let's finish this question without interruption, and then let's take a look. No objections? Yes. 10 minutes to ask, please, Mountaineer, to prepare for Radion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u68	I'd like to give the floor to the employee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u69	Please, it's the robot's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u70	Our Ukraine faction, my dear colleague, would you please tell us what percentage of the government funds allocated to the coal sector during the electoral campaign were targeted at corruption, for electoral bribery, or for direct advocacy? Your grade?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u71	You know, there was one example in my life where I took on one assignment that was very much disturbed, and then I said, "I'm a banker." Well, that was a long time ago. "And not a prosecutor or an investigator." I think that's what the investigative authorities should do, not roughly, not around, but say exactly how much of that money. If it's been spent. And what, and who, must humans be responsible for this? It's very difficult for me to judge that in order to accuse someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u72	Please, Rodionov, follow him Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u73	Rodionov, please give the floor to the leader of the faction Simonenko Peter Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u74	Please, Simonenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u75	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Viktor Semenović, your thinking aloud, I think a lot of people have made other thoughts today, because it wasn't a report on what the Ministry was doing, it was philosophical reasoning. But what I'd like to hear is the answers to the following questions: the most expensive coal we have is one ton of coal -- 50 dollars -- explain what we have for the economy and the position of the Ministry when a ton of coke is $235? Once again, a ton of coal is $50, and a ton of coke is 235. What kind of economy will it hold? Second, please explain to me the position of the Ministry, together with the Ministry of the Interior, on the elimination of mines. Today, 6,000 tons of mines are mined, 300,000 bracelets per day, in fact, costs, and the Ministry of the Interior. I mean, not the official machine, but on the ground, they're covering it up. And third. I'd like to hear what's being done to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u76	Petr Nikolaevich, I beg your pardon. Maybe it's philosophical thinking, but it's very difficult for me to be responsible for a ministry I haven't worked in. And blame me for having to take credit for what happened before me. Let us ask those people, including the committee, and the people who worked on this committee why there was no proper monitoring of what had happened. I fully agree with you, and in my statement, I said that prices must be changed primarily to carbon dioxide, absolutely. I'm telling you, the prices for coked coal should be raised, and there should be money in the industry. And coke prices form a market, not me, not the Ministry of Coal. Whose hands are the cokes? This is not a matter for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u77	Please, Homutinnick, follow him, Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u78	Yeah, no, no, no. Now on your feet. I answer your question. Now on your feet. I'm gonna ask the D.A. to check out all the trenches that only exist. I'm sure there's no license. And they have to be closed. And third, prices are not electricity. The National Electricity Regulatory Commission is preparing its proposals for price policies in the field of electricity. You have energy here, let them tell you if there's a difference between 5 and 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u80	And I'm telling you again, there's no 5-7 difference between self-pity. Count it. At coal-fired power plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u81	Victor Semenovich, he can't answer, he can't. Well, come on. Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u82	Dear Viktor Semenović. Victor Semenovich, I think it's wrong to bet now, make any claims, because you're not working that long. Knowing you in the parliamentary business, I think you'll be all right. I would like to ask two such questions. First. As you can see, further restructuring of the coal industry, particularly the establishment of regional companies. And the second question. Unfortunately, we have not yet seen the draft budget prepared by the Government. But you probably know the contents of the coal industry there. And that's the question. Whether there will be a reduction in budget programmes aimed at supporting the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u83	At first glance, my support for the restructuring of the region remained and worked. More control over spending will have to be done. But to pull all the money and leave it in Kiev, as there's an offer to go back to the old scheme, I don't think that's entirely justified. With regard to budget money, the main challenge that we have set ourselves is to find internal reserves to make additional money available in the industry and in no way reduce the state support that we have already approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u84	Please, Kalinchuk. After him, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u85	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please give my word to my colleague Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u86	Zarubinsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Victor Semenovich, article 13 of the Constitution states that the earth and its nadra are the property of the Ukrainian people. So coal mines are also property objects of the Ukrainian people. At the same time, in the budget, in any case today, because the change has not yet been seen, nine of these basic standards have been laid down in Appendix nine for the use of the mining system. If anyone doesn't know, it's very interesting. For coal, the price of coal per unit of scrapped stocks is 27 tons. For the coal of the barrel, for a ton, there are 16 copies. Tell me, please, how do you feel about this, and do you really have to pay for these full resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u88	You know, as far as my opinion is concerned, this issue needs to be taken not only to coal, but also to other mineral resources that are there, and to move to the real value of non-renewable mineral resources, so that the pay is real, objective, and that the money goes for the benefit of the entire people, not because even in privatizing mineral resources-related enterprises, we privatized machines, equipment, property complex, but never privatized the mineral resources that are being mined. I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u89	Please, Semenyuk, follow her Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u90	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. First of all, I want to ask you: tell me, how do you look at that monopoly that we have today in energy for electricity prices, and how do you plan to regulate prices today, taking into account the large number of enterprises that have gone into private hands, and they are actually monopolies. I'm talking about the skyscraper. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u91	They are monopolies in the region, some sort of archetype. I got it right, didn't I? If so, it must be regulated. Again, it must be not the Mintopenergo, but the relevant public institutions, which should have the effect of monopolies on the consumer. It has to be. It's the same as I want to use, for example, as an enrichment that's in private hands today, or a machine-building complex that's in private hands. All these cartels, all those treaties that exist, or monopolies, must act within the framework of the law and demand what is laid down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u92	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u93	Thank you. Kirilchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Victor Semenovich, I am troubled by this question. Last year we budgeted coal, well, so much as defense. Well, basically, we know where the money in this coal sector went during the election. The sea of mines is already used and no one is going to close them. There are the materials of the Supreme Council's Auditorium, terrible facts. Tell me, how many criminal cases have these funds been discovered, how many more have to be opened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u94	I regret not to say how open it is, but I certainly believe that all these materials must be moved and assessed accordingly. I have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u95	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. And I don't care what it is. There are 25 more questions. There are 25 questions. Yeah, let's go. There's no time. Don't you see zeros? Take your glasses if you can't see. Let's move on to the discussion. 21 minutes, please, Puzakov and Mironenko pass on their word to Kravchenk. Six minutes. Get ready right away. Yes, Nikolai Vasilovich, wait. Sit down, please. I'm not insulting the deputies. Don't yell, don't shout. I was talking to you, not you. Please report from the Committee, Thurmanov, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! The issue of reform of the coal sector management system is of concern today, not only today, but also today, the people's deputies, the High Council's Sectoral Committee and the coal workers'union. The Central Committee considered this issue on 11 March this year and noted that, in accordance with Presidential Decree of 06.07.2004, reform of the coal industry management system was under way. The overall concept of reform was endorsed by the board of the Ministry on the basis of arguments in favour of it, such as increased capacity for financial, material, tax minimisation, reduction of non-productive losses. But when we adopted the first regulatory instruments on this issue, we opposed the individual provisions contained therein that violated the rights of workers. Proposals have been made that are agreed upon with the Ministry's leadership and are taken into account in the preparation of subsequent founding documents. The process of setting up the company was extremely painful not only for subjective but a number of objective reasons, including the lack of self-sufficiency budget, the indemnity of the payment process, the diversion of funds to repay previously accepted loans. The establishment of a company has been discussed here today. But I would like to say that everyone understands the people's deputies: from what budget they say today: five billion have been broken, we need to verify and evaluate this. But today the 2005 budget is not within any framework. Today, at a cost of 72 million less than last year. With regard to development prospects, technical rearms, today the amount has been allocated to 1 billion 400, 1 billion 400, I stress, but of these, 722 million is a special fund to be made -- today the communists are asking the question to the Deputy Minister: "Will there be an increase?" - and this special fund needs to increase electricity tariffs and give and return to the coal industry. With this funding, which has been approved today, and what the Government is preparing today, it is simply unknown. The industry is now doomed to the crisis situations that have taken place today. The companies that were created today did not show themselves. On 11 March, the Bureau therefore considered the matter with the participation of the Minister, with the participation of NAKA “Ugol Ukraine”. The Bureau decided to disband these regional companies within a month. [[The novices are here.]] They didn't justify themselves, they cut everyone alive, there's imbalance today, they've trained companies, they haven't included the Donbass Mine, the Krasnolymanska Mine, which is potentially extracting coal, and today companies are balanced. So today, if only by company, that would be wrong. Today, we need to see what industry budget is allocated. Today's tariffs. do not comply with the legislation, as I have said today. In front of me when he spoke. Therefore, the issue is very serious, and I stress, with the participation of the Government, the establishment of the working group that we set up at the last meeting of our special committee, the situation in the coal sector will be a crisis and the miners will not be waiting for any contributions, so they will decide what you know. We can't let that happen today. I therefore believe that the draft regulation has been prepared today. Today they say you didn't have to look at it. Let's look at it. And it is true that today we are looking at a new leadership to understand that there are problems in the coal today and that they need to deal with them. And if we don't, believe me, the situation in the industry will get worse every day. Today, loans have been taken to pay the wages. Credits were taken by ex-boyfriends. Today, the companies took the last 40 million credits. Today, the loan is paid 360 million from the beginning of the year. This money has to be paid, and the interest has to be paid. Where are we going? We're putting a knack on the coal industry's neck. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing, I would like to propose today that the draft decision today be reflected. We need to resume the work of the crisis management coordination board. situations. There. This, let us say, should be headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich. If we do not do so, we will not address issues in the complex today in the coal sector, believe me, we will criticize, remove ministers, and we will not change the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u97	Is there a question? Please sign in. Three minutes. Manchulenko. Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u98	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Victor Ivanovich! In fact, there are enough problems now in the fuel-energy complex and in particular in the coal sector. You were talking about the problems that exist on Donbassa right now, but they didn't happen that day or yesterday. These problems have accumulated for many years, and the previous power, which, thanks to God, has gone back in time, and the President may have known about the real state of affairs in the coal sector, but unfortunately, no real steps have been taken. The new authorities are just beginning to come to grips with the problem. And that's not just about Donbass. I think we should give a description of the situation, which is in the western areas of Ukraine, where coal is also being extracted, and there is also a rather difficult situation. Please give me an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Today we are talking about the problems of the coal industry. That doesn't say it's Donbass. We've got Volyn, we've got Leogol, we've got Alexandria. There's a disaster in Alexandria today. We have sent several letters to both the Cabinet of Ministers and the First Deputy Prime Minister to discuss what is going on in Alexandria. So today the situation is not just in Donbass. It's also very complicated in "Volnyogle," and it's complicated in "Livowowogle." Therefore, while looking at the problems of the coal sector today in the light of budgetary funding, I would stress that today, if the Supreme Council does not support the coal industry, the Cabinet will present the budget that it has today, and if it further tightens this budget, no one will correct the coal industry today, because it is today, it has been subsidized. We want 80 million dollars of coal today, give us a normal budget. I emphasize once again, normal. And there's someone to control this budget. Many of them are in control today, and let them control: both the Genprocuratorium, the militia, and the BSS, and everyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u100	Please, Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u101	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Olga Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u102	Hinsburg microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u103	Thank you Adam Ivanovich, Hinzburg, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Konotapian constituency. Dear Victor Ivanovich, here you are and Victor Semenovich, in your speeches you keep saying that it's another power, another authority. Well, for people, it should be known that this is where the taxi goes: sitting in the Cabinet of Ministers, sitting in the Supreme Council. Then he went there again, well, the same power. This, however, is for everyone to understand: The people are the same, but they are only tasting. But I have a question: there's 800 million subsidies in the budget, or there's a coal industry for 2005. There's a red metal factory in Konotap that manufactures products that provide safety equipment for these mines. Well, why can't we somehow give up some of this money and then our people won't die? It's not built in these. Millions of this order of distribution of these funds into security technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u104	Thank you, I support you. The thing is, Konotop and I are working, there's a trade union organization there if we had the right, but today we have these laws that we have adopted and the Tenders Act is. Today, your Konotop plant, where you are today a people's MP, produces high-quality equipment related to safety and safety. And today it would be necessary for the budget line to lie down: how much we can win today, there's 10 million, there's 15 million. Well, we have a tender today, you know. And the tenders were such that a tender is awarded, not by the manufacturer, but by some uncle who has no product. It's just that he takes it from this factory, so it's real. And the delta takes that away. That's why we need to, important, we have this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this electrical plant that's producing electrical equipment that's related to safety. The budget line should be introduced and financed by the State, covering all of these mediation structures. That's why we have to put a line into the budget. That should be done by the Mintopenergo today and the Cabinet of Ministers. So, given your proposal, we will make a proposal on our part, but you see how the budget today wants to be considered. No one's ever heard or seen it before, says let's vote it out. We have to look here, then do you know the procedure? To the Budget Committee and the right of the people's deputies: to make proposals to the budget so that it can return and consider, taking into account the proposals made by the deputies in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u105	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. 21 minutes to talk. I've already reported that Puzakov and Mironenko are handing over their word for six minutes to Kravchenk. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u106	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Respectable colleagues, respected radio audiences, respected voters. The Supreme Council had before it a decree on the order of the Communist faction on the report of the Ministry of Coal Restructuring. The main issue is not that they are said to be trampling on the Ministry, to show that they are unskilled today in the assessment of activities, including property. It is today that I have put the main task together with the Communist faction to draw the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers, all the structures, to the situation that has arisen as a result of the restructuring. To date, restructuring has been carried out almost aimlessly, without focus, no concept of coal industry development, no financing of the coal industry under this concept. The analysis of the situation revealed the following negative consequences of the restructuring already undertaken. Management has been lost. The Ministry, the Department, the NAC, the territorial authorities, the regional authorities, have come upon a single mine producer, which is not a legal entity. And the mine, which is in its own time. The shaft is virtually unfunded. And you can understand how it turned into a production station today. Both the Ministry and the Department and the National Coal Stock Company are located in Kiev and do not agree with the local authorities. At the same time, NAC assumed the function of distributing coal and money. And so far, there is a little bit of a vice minister here that he can't figure it out. To date, there are even moments where treasury cannot today send money from Kiev to regional regional companies for one reason, which is not resolved by how money from treasury should go to regional companies. That is, the loss of industry governance in general. The newly established regional companies cannot, as a result of the above, quickly influence the financial and material flows of production. I would like to say that the Donetsk region is facing a serious situation in the coal region as a whole within three months. There is a monthly underfunding at cost. To date, some 200 million wages and 38 million we have only increased over the three months; production has dropped by 756,000 tons. The loss of mine legal status has created several serious social problems for the Territories. Above all, it is the formation of local budgets, and this legislative issue has not been resolved. The implementation of article 48 of the mining law, where people at each meeting question the issue of concessional coal, has not been resolved to date. And third. There is no funding for the transfer of socio-cultural objects. It all hit the company. To date, we must make it clear that the social problems that the Ministry and Cabinet of Ministers are trying to throw on the ground are already a burden for local governments. And in these circumstances, I don't understand why city mayors, trade union leaders, other organizations don't fight in this situation. The point is that today we must force the Cabinet of Ministers to sit down and solve these problems. On this issue, I have filed draft regulation No. 7179. The objective is to get the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a concept, develop financial and budgetary financing parameters. I agree that there must be a working commission from the deputies representing the regions, and that is how we will solve this problem. We cannot decide today in the context of the Supreme Council Hall whether there is NAC or regional structures, this will be decided by the working commission. But the main thing to date is that we must adopt the Supreme Council regulation, and I am addressing all the deputies, regardless of their political views, is to remove the entire Supreme Council from a very dangerous situation in connection with the foregoing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, dear. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! We are discussing with you today, I want to read again, information on the introduction, restructuring of the coal industry from its socio-economic impact. I would like to focus on the social consequences. Regrettably, neither in the main report nor in the initiator's report on this issue has the social dimension of the restructuring of the coal industry been reflected at all. I hope it's just because of the lack of time. Why? Because when we talk about the coal industry, we need to be clear with you that in the vast majority of coal-based areas or, more simply, mines, traditionally they were urban-based enterprises. They had the whole sociocultural thing hanging on them, that is. Housing, education, health care and everything that should and should have existed and should have existed in the future, speaking of people living there. There are two problems. The first problem is that the public budget should reflect targeted programmes that should reach places of employment. And then there won't be talk about kicks, because people will be where they work. Won't there be any questions about how to get drinking water? How can we develop urban transportation? Everything else with regard to mining regions. The same should be considered in respect of State budget grants to local budgets and the establishment of full-fledged local budgets for their maintenance of social and housing problems. In addition to the restructuring of the coal sector, I hope that, in the future, we will have concrete answers as to how the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry, the State budget and local budgets will be able to deal with the social and housing issues of the coal regions. I would like to present to my colleague and landlady Astrov-Sumilova Gennadija Konstantinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u109	So, where's Astrove-Shumilov? Please, microphone, one minute. Turn on the Astrove-Sumilova microphone, please. [[12:25:26]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. I'll be there instead of Solomatin, to add to those three minutes, I mean. And I'll be speaking from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u110	Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Astrov Shumilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Let's see what we heard today. With all due respect to Mr. Topolov, have we heard the report? We didn't hear the report. Why? Because the report is when we're told that out of the projected 3 billion 848 million, 214 thousand from the budget went there. It's transparency. Of the projected another 1 billion to pay off the debt on the payroll, the money went there. Of the projected and outstanding loans that were allocated before the elections for more than 200 million dollars, the money went elsewhere. So let's say that now the miners are shutting down these loans and not getting paid, because the new government, the new president today, have a problem that the old president and the old government have created, namely: 658 million payroll debts along with the billing. And the problems that have arisen on the Belicka mines, Novadonetsk, Biloserska mines, have occurred that the party contributions of the Regional Party of Accounting require what is normal? Is that normal? So let's stop this. As far as structure is concerned. They beat the Ministry here and said the structure should be looked at -- it's only broken now. Here we have former Minister Staszewski sitting in this room -- the only person who held a board meeting on ending corruption and stealing in this particular area -- the only person for whom he was immediately removed because he wanted to see where the money was going. But I think so. I thought we knew where the money was going. In this amount, the funding provided for roundmash, the structure of Renata Ahmtova, was 1 billion 212 million last year, and for this year it was 1 billion 432 million. As a result, we have a monopoly structure that has increased the cost of equipment five times, and we have a fivefold increase in the cost of equipment in the budget. And then we say, "Why do miners live badly?" And because monopolies are not needed, you don't have to raise prices like that. By code 1101260, the creation of a unified telecommunication system of control -- from 75 million to last year 45 -- went to Britain, 25 million went that way this year. Unless we raise the coal sector like this. That's why I think there's a report to be made here by the Registry and the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u112	Please, Astrove-Sumilov. Prepare Hinzburg. [[12:29:16]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. Dear colleagues, we are looking at the governance structure of the coal industry today. I understand there's been a lot of questions, and they're worried about the whole room. Therefore, all issues will be dealt with at parliamentary hearings on 18 May, and now on reorganization in governance. Any restructuring in industrial governance is being done to improve both economic indicators and all social and labour conditions. And if you take a sector like coal, you also have the energy and economic security of the country. The restructuring of the coal industry has yielded results over the past 13 years. [[Of course it's brownies.]] More than 100 million tons of coal mining, more than 100 mines were shut down, dozens of cities remained depressed, and many mining towns. In June last year, the Mintopenergo began a new reform of the coal industry by issuing orders Nos. 400 and 416. I think they'll come into history as the ultimate destruction of the coal industry if we finally allow it with you respected colleagues. The first was the establishment of the Lugano Coal Company, which included 6 State enterprises, including 2 enterprises, which were listed as strategic enterprises for the economy and security of the State as early as 2000. In addition, laws were adopted here last year to list non-privatization. These enterprises provide more than 50 per cent of energy coal to the State, which is more than 500 million per annum of budget and non-budgetary contributions. These are such powerful enterprises, although there were many laws that should not have included them, there was no agreement of the labour community, but of the lobby, the lobby that pushed the law to include them for its purposes, has broken all the laws and, nevertheless, has been established such a company. Regrettably, I wish to point out that the new leadership of the Ministry is, for some reason, on the same path as the previous leadership. What's bad about setting up these companies? I'm going to be like the Lugano Coal Company, which is probably the same thing as the Donkey Company. Money earned later and blood miners are redistributed by the management of these companies at their discretion. As a result, even a powerful enterprise such as Rowenki-Anthracite” that has not been reorganized for 13 years, whose production has not been reduced, but has even increased significantly, has begun to move. And it's starting to move because now 70 million dollars have been taken to pay the wages. This is due to the establishment of a regional company. The coal industry's foundation for history was mines, mine mergers within the city or region. The above-mentioned order for the establishment of regional companies has been destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u113	You've spoken for four minutes. Please, Hinzburg. Get ready, Noshchenko. Hinzburg's handing over Puzakov. Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u114	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Sailors of Alexandria, in Kirovgrad, are deeply concerned about the crisis that has arisen around the coal companies of the state-owned oil companies Alexanderia Coal. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has repeatedly stressed that further financing is not worthwhile and ineffective. It was proposed that the future fate of Alexandria Coal be resolved by involving an external investor. It was handed over to two ZAT tenants, Energy Coal and TOV Ex."but unfortunately, the terms of the lease, the arrangement between the ministry and the tenants are not being met. As a result, the rentals and units of the company were in dire straits. There has been an increase in debt from wages of about 3 million dollars and the lack of markets for a number of types of products. Most importantly, no new types of production are created by renters. Because the tenants are forced to direct the funds to fill the circulation costs. The Minpalevenergo's promised grant, the miners will never get it. And all of this creates a number of additional problems. Production and payments to the pension fund are being reduced. Businesses are constantly shut down for not paying for their energy supply. There is no financing for development and no capital construction of the facilities of the Alexandria Storm and Coal Basin. There is no solution to the fate of the rest of the subsidiaries and the structural units of Alexandria Coal. Minpalevenergo delays the issue of the supply of dried storm coal at the country’s thermal power plant. The conclusion is that the coal companies of Alexandria, which employ 6,000 workers, are doomed to death. The ministry leased coal companies to improve their economic situation and washed their hands. But as life has shown, renters without the help of the Ministry are initially unable to resolve the development of coal enterprises that are leading to the economy of the city and the area. So I'm going to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and I'm going to take immediate action, and I'm going to fund the coal sector of Alexandria, and I'm going to get the coal and coal storms at the thermal power stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u115	Please, Mikola Nightshenko. There's no Nightingale? Yes, please, Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues -- national MPs, distinguished coal workers -- I want to remind you that somewhere, but not anywhere, but almost two years ago, on March 7, 2003, we held parliamentary hearings in this room on the same theme as "The Main Consequences of Coal Restructuring". We also argued for a long time about the ruling that was passed as a result of those parliamentary hearings, and then we argued about how to secure separate paragraphs of this decree in the State Budget Act. But today we can say that almost none of this has been done. And if there has been an increase, especially in the past year, in the carbon budget of some 5 billion dollars or more, this has not worked. The only result of this policy, which began with President Leonid Kuchma's decree since February 7, 1996, is that this restructuring has been going on for nine years, so the only result of this restructuring is the closure of coal mines and mass unemployment in coal regions. [[Also, perhaps many of you remember]] In previous years, I have statistics here by 2004, more than 10 billion budget allocations have been made only for new jobs. So what did that give you? It was created, let's say, during this period of 2,600 jobs, which is only 6.3 percent of the real need. In these workplaces, 235 million dollars have been used, and only 1,485 miners have been installed. So let's think about it, one job in the coal industry costs $535,000. If we took this huge astronomical sum, we might not have had to make any restructuring. Maybe we should just give that money to the miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u117	Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you. Please, one minute, Konovaluk, from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u118	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I really want to make certain not only proposals but also requests the first Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy that we not only discuss this issue one more time today. This is a problem that will affect the economic situation in general in the state. And you have to understand that your report has really shown me that you haven't quite gotten to know the issues, the things in the field. So the question that arises is that it needs urgent action. And we need to stop any experiments at all. We need to understand that there is a difference between the miner’s tariff grid and the minimum wage. There is a lack of funding for certain coal programs. Because it's not certain right now. If we can save the amount of coal that's already fallen by 976 000 in two months. I'd like to offer you one more chance to look at those.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u119	Please, there's a Kachur from the faction, one minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u120	Cachure, faction of our Ukraine. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to speak in full. But I would like to say a few words about my own economic attitude towards those funds that are allocated to support the coal sector. Dear friends, budget funds all over the world, that's the first priority: social programs and aid to poor people. If we're allocating these funds to the coal sector, the ratio to them should be three times more economical than any other program. What are we today, Mom? Now, I'm not able to give these facts, but before me is the report of the Court of Auditors on the ineffective use of such funds. And that's millions of money. I'd like to say just a few words about offering new leadership to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. You know, if we keep that funding scheme when.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u121	Yes, please, Shurma, a minute microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u122	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear Adam Ivanovich, I'm the first to proceed. When we ask questions and time, when there are yellow 0's on the board, that means there's no minutes, there's less time than a minute. So I have the right to ask that question, and please don't take that right away. When red 0's, the answer's impossible to answer, it's really time's up. But, nevertheless, I admit your step that you are the man who has offended me to apologize. I'm glad you're a vice-speaker able to do that. And my question, which I didn't ask then, is now, and I hope that the National MP will answer it using a replica. I'm here to see Mr. Topolov. Mr. Topolow, you've done a lot of philosophies, and I want to call you to practical action. Please tell me when you place a parliamentary mandate and do not violate the 78th article of the Constitution. How long are you going to get paid in two places? It only takes will, not professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u123	Yes, please, Volinch Mikhail, one minute. And he'll have a lockup, he'll say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u124	Adam Ivanovich, thank you personally for such an important question that is now under consideration. Well, first of all, Deputy Carmazin pointed out that there is a disproportionately and incorrectly distributed amount of money allocated to support the coal sector, which is about 4 billion dollars, even though funding has decreased this year. Last year, in addition to funding, 1 billion dollars was allocated to payback, and this year there is no money. In addition, large sums were allocated to the last year’s elections to pay off the debt on wages, and this year coal miners are forced to unload their loans, and the cost of their wages is not enough. Moreover, the reforms undertaken in previous years have not produced a positive outcome. This reform that we're talking about today started six months ago, and today we don't have the right result, and we have yet to deal specifically with such issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u125	Yes, please, Mikola Nightshenko, one minute, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I will have a request: When preparing, when making a decision, to take into account the concept of social coal. I've been with the Ministry with this for two years now, and I can't understand that a single stroke of feathers could be after all of last year's bids, for example, 30 percent of the value of coal, of coal. It's coal for people with disabilities, it's coal for many children's families. And huge flows of government budget went to your ministry. I'm very sorry today that the prime minister doesn't know how coal gets to the privates. Who's going to take care of it? What, the national MPs? Should we now form a parliamentary commission to figure out how commercial structures trade coal that is extracted by state-owned entrepreneurs with the support of the State Budget? Who should do this? I ask you very much to include such a point that social coal should be present in us with billions of support for the budget of this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Yes, please, Victor Semenovich, three minutes to incarceration, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I am very grateful for all the wishes and recommendations I have heard from you. Many of these will be taken into account, and I would like to propose to Mr. Kravchenko today, because the committee did not call your name, to join this reform commission. There weren't, there were five people -- he wasn't there, I know the names that came in. And I have three proposals for a ruling. The first is in the commentary, there's a last paragraph, and it says that "the creation of an additional structure of the NAC "Ukrainian Coal" is useless." And in operative paragraph two, it reads: "To limit the functions of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine and NAC "Ukrainian Coal" and to justify the need for this additional structure." I propose that we remove it from the narrative because we need to understand: to separate and determine whether this structure is needed or not, and then to decide that it is “inconsequential”. That's the first one. Second. Item two. These two paragraphs, both of which have been given a term of one month. With regard to "delimitation", "necessity" may be sufficient, but with regard to "to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a new concept in which to establish a programme of action" in order to make it, indeed, a real programme, one month, with all due respect, a small one. And the last. In paragraph three, "Ukrainian Department of Fuel and Energy -- it says so -- for a two-week period to hold a regional meeting," given that we started receiving programs from the joints, I ask that this be not "a two-week period," but "a month." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u129	The right of those to whom questions are asked to answer or not to answer. This is the right of a national MP. Dear colleagues, we will now move on to a decision on the matter under discussion. I say, let's do it this way: we're going to take it as a base, and then we're going to make the adjustments that are going to be. This is from the Ministry of Corrections, some of the right ones may be from the National Deputies. Is there no objection? Then I'm going to say, on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution, registration number 7179, on the report -- not just the minister, but as we agreed -- on the report of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the implementation of the coal restructuring and its socio-economic consequences, as well as on the state of the accounts between businesses in the sector. Please vote. Based on the base. The Ministry's backing up. [[12:50:01]] For 282 Copy that. Now, dear fellows, let's make amends. First. Now, yeah. Cowchenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u130	Cowchenko. The order was issued on Monday and yesterday alone. Dear colleagues! In principle, I agree with the First Deputy Minister's statement, but the only thing. On the first point. The concept of coal development is. It's simple, I'm sorry, but you just don't know what to do. She is. You need to make adjustments there according to the budget and everything. So I'm actually writing what's already done. To raise the strategic development of this sector, it is in the Cabinet of Ministers, it is approved by the Supreme Council, and you will make adjustments through budget funding. I mean, it doesn't really take a lot of time out there for an hour or so. Second. "To limit the functions of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine and NAC "Ukrainian Coal" and to justify the need for this additional structure." It's not that we're talking immediately to remove NAC, but today the situation is that the Ministry is taking reports, NAC is taking reports, the Ministry is distributing money, NAC. And you know what. No, I'm sorry. The thing is,
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u131	Yes, Nikolai Vasilovich, you're very specific, because you don't have time. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u132	So I agree to withdraw and also to justify the necessity, although I have received an answer because I have received an invitation, and who has provided a technical and economic justification for the creation of NAC in general. That's why I wrote it down. Give me a reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u133	Mikola Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u134	Third. The Department of Fuel and Energy is in a two-week period. I agree to spend the month as an author.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then, let us agree. Mikolo Vasilovich, please wait. What's your hurry, huh? Do You Only Hear Yourself? We have a decision to make. So, Mikolo Vasilovich, Topoloov was saying, he doesn't mind to rule out the third point, he was telling him to leave, figure it out with NAC and so on. He just offered to remove from the notable part of the sentence about NAC, because it's in the point of being defined. So basically the author of the decree has agreed with all the proposals that have moved away from our colleague and the first deputy minister of Topolovo, we take them into account. Please, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! As I spoke today, I made a suggestion in the resolution to read: “Renew the work of the Co-ordinating Council for Crisis Management in the Coal Industry”. We had such a coordination council because there were issues to be addressed at the Government level. And the second is a proposal. Ask the Prime Minister to accept the leadership of the Mintopenergo and consider it in the 2005 budget with the participation of the Minister of Finance, because we have asked the question, but no one is going to invite us yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u137	I think about the first question where we write: recommending the Cabinet of Ministers, you can write that you recommend re-establishing the Coordination Council, because it's in the Cabinet of Ministers, we can't commit it. What's more, it's not a decision, it's a work question. Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u138	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to add to where to recommend the Cabinet of Ministers the following point: "Think about the volume and price of coal for the population's income category." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Is there any objection to that? Please, Topolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u140	This is not the problem of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. This is a problem of subsidies, subsidies, but not ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, Victor Semenovich, don't argue, Mikola Petrovich is right about the fact that we recommend not to the Ministry of Fuel to consider, but to consider the Cabinet of Ministers, which is the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u142	To the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u143	Yes, yes, it's for the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u144	And I have the second one. It clearly says, "to develop and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a new concept of the coal sector." If it were written here: to change the current concept, then I would agree with Mr. Kravchenko's proposal. But it's clearly written here, so I'm asking for two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u145	Yes. So, as for the term after the concept, two months, please agree with Astrov-Shumilov. [[12:55:30]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. I propose that the second paragraph should be included in the sub-item on the consideration of the feasibility of establishing the Lugansk Coal Company (Lugansk Coal Company) as well as in the Donetsk Region. It's a decision. Trade Union of 11 March this year, and in compliance with Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u146	Well, dear fellows, let's not write down issues that are solved by the commission's working character and so on. Because now we're going to write it down: to come to work at 9:00 a.m., to go at 7:40 or so. Yes, please, who else has the offer? A duck. Only proposals for a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to add to the preamble a key thesis that needs to change the essence of financing the coal sector. We have to add that funding has to be done, and funding is a priority of financing the operation of the mine, not the industry. Because as we continue to finance the sector, we will continue for years to look for the funds that are being embezzled, first of all, those that then very often defend the miner's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u148	There's a radio, but there's mines-- who else? The builders, and so on, and so on, it's a branch. Good wishes. I think the Ministry should take that into account. Who else has a comment on the decision? Well, then, dear fellows, let's take those suggestions into account. Do you have a solution? Please, it's a Chernewsky microphone. But if you say otherwise, you will be deprived of your words.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u149	I'm talking about the subject. Before the decision, the most basic record of coal financing could be made so that coal mining would receive the basic wages from coal mining companies themselves, not from their managers. That's the main thesis. Because we actually have the cost of coal coming from. Coal cost of theft, which thrives in the coal industry, because instead of cash calculations, bartering and whatever. And that's a big problem in fact, which is why miners continue to live worse, my brother was a coal miner in Soviet time, he got paid at Winning. There's a cockroach' salary there today. That's the kind of thesis you can put in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u150	It's a fair thought, but I think it's not up to the decision, it's up to the instructions on wages that are being developed. Carmazine. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have proposed that the Court of Auditors should carry out a review of the expenditure, budget and loan costs and loans granted in 2004, i.e. under the old government, to carry out a verification. This is the point I'm asking you to write down. In many decrees, we entrust our body, the Court of Auditors, to carry out checks and to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, that would have provided for transparency. And go to the Antimonopoly Committee on the structure I was talking about, the Ukremashbuilding, which belongs to Renata Ahmetov, who raised five times the price and monopolized the equipment. I'd like to include that in the ruling, vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u152	Thank you. Is there no objection to the appointment of the Court of Auditors? Is there no objection? Yes. Then, in general, with the proposals that we have agreed with you, I am voting on the adoption of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the implementation of the restructuring of the coal sector and its socio-economic impact, as well as the state of the calculations between the enterprises of the sector. Registration number 7179. Please vote. [[13:00:39]] For 310 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's work with you for another 30 minutes without calling a recess, and we'll finish the session 30 minutes early. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's move on to the section on ratification issues. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0218. Head of State Statistical Committee Osaulenko Alexander Grigorovich Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u153	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The project under consideration is jointly prepared by the State Department, Mineconomy, Minfin, National Bank. A few words about history. During the years of independence, much has been done to build the national statistical system, taking into account the vital importance of the country’s integration, of international societies. One of the main priorities was to fully adapt state statistics to international standards. And here, national statistics have some achievements. In January 2003, Ukraine became officially 52 countries in the world and the first of the SND countries to be recognized by the IMF as being able to support the most stringent statistical standard, an international so-called special data dissemination standard. At the same time, given the challenges currently facing the country, the existing system is not fully adapted to the realities of the market economy and democratic society. In addition, standards in this area are constantly changing, changing. But the main problem of state statistics today is the catastrophic gap between modern methodological approaches, on the one hand, and the imperfect technological processes of gathering, processing and disseminating statistics, on the other. In fact, today, the level of software provided by statistical authorities does not meet the real needs to process ever-increasing market-economy data. The reason for this is that the reform of the system of statistics has taken place under the conditions of financing this sector in accordance with the residual principle among the ministries, the economic bloc's offices. The available budget funding did not provide, and in the near future, it is clear that it will not even provide for the minimum needs for life-forming information and technology in the system of state statistics. That is why the government has asked the World Bank to assist in financing the implementation of a promising project to modernize Ukraine’s statistical system. The main thrusts of this project are: the introduction of modern information and communication technologies, the analysis and dissemination of statistics, the completion of the implementation of international standards in all areas of socio-economic statistics, the improvement of the organisational structure and the creation of a modern system for the administration of state statistics, and the construction of a modern system for the training of specialists. Some numerical parameters of the agreement: The project is scheduled to be completed in five years, a total cost of 38 million, including the World Bank’s 32 million loan, for 20 years the loan is granted, five years the premium period. And the main thing is that the project is self-sustaining. Experts estimate that the cost will be paid five years after it is completed. In view of the above, please support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u154	Thank you, Alexander Grigorovich. There's a question. Please sign in. Yes, please explain. Three minutes. He's been followed by Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear Alexander Grigorovich, I'd like to ask you this. In principle, this kind of loan is needed, although today similar loans are needed in almost all the structures of Ukraine's administration -- and by tax, it goes like this, by the way, the loan, both the customs, and the treasury, and so on. But we never see how this loan is going to be used, that is, how this software product is going to be developed, what it has to, so to speak, realize that it's going to be better than this -- whether it's statistical reporting, or whether it's going to be possible to enter this database of statistics and so on. Unfortunately, all these technological things, they're practically inaccessible. I'm even telling you this as a budget committee. We can support this loan, that's all, it's not that big, but I'd like to see more disclosure of the entity that's going to be made for this loan and what we're going to have on the way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u156	Thank you very much for asking me this question. Unfortunately, in the absence of time, I could not reveal in my speech all the questions you are talking about. There's the structure of the loan in the materials, and there's the left-hand side of the loan, about 70 percent goes right to the creation of appropriate information and communication technologies, including information technology. This is about creating a global network of corporate authorities of state statistics in Ukraine with the possibility of accessing all categories of users as public authorities and all types of society to this information. Suitable portals. This is all in this project, and if God gives it, we implement it, all of it will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u157	Yes, thank you. Please, Rodionov. Matvienkov's behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u158	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please give it to Matthew Vladimir Josifovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u159	Matthew Vladimir's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u160	Matveev Vladimir Josifovic, faction of the Compartija Ukraine. Dear Alexander Grigoryevich! Well, in fact, it would be a small loan -- just $32 million, which means they said a small loan like that to create a statistical system. That is, the credit is non-productive. Please tell me, what income will the State receive from this loan? And please tell me, 20 years from now -- well, of course, we're with you at the age of 20, so you don't have to worry about who's going to pay back and how they're going to repay this loan, but from what income is this loan, $32 million plus interest, is going to come back? And where do you get the first, one interest rate of $320,000?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u161	Thank you for asking. Indeed, statistics on the one hand seem to be an unproductive sphere. But, dear colleagues, let us talk about what it can do to assess the damage that the country can do in connection with unbiased, incomplete and unreliable statistical information? Now the system of state statistics is practically in a state of collapse, in view of the fact that it is no longer able to process the amount of information that I've already talked about in the report that it has to process. That's why all of this money has to be spent. You can take them out of the budget -- and that would be the right thing to do. But unfortunately, as we can see, the budget doesn't give these funds, and it didn't give them up, and it's obviously not going to give them up anytime soon. As for the efficiency that you're asking me about, the answer is very simple: we've been counting the economy that I said that the cost will be paid by 2014 at the expense of the account, first of all, that the cost of maintaining the state statistics system will be reduced by creating special technologies that allow the processing to be saved. information, on the one hand, is one factor that gives the economy. The second factor of efficiency gains is that the information will be processed and provided in special modes for use by the main users, including the authorities, there is a special block for Mineconomy, for Minfin. And this will increase the effectiveness of government decisions based on statistical information, including forecasting, and planning, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u162	I voted Matvienkov. Please have a quick question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District. The distinguished rapporteur, but I honestly thought that the time had passed when we took credit and then started scratching our heads and thinking about what we were taking and how we were taking and what we were taking. Today, we do not know what to do with those loans that have been taken under State guarantees. It's money that's almost gone down like water into the sand. We today have, so to speak, some programmes that are incomprehensible, mythical programmes for improvement and accountability, and all kinds of systems, so to speak, to say, accounting, but not investing entirely any resources in the development of production, in the development of a productive base, a productive structure. I have a specific question for you. Well, we're going to invest this money today, so we're going to bring it into line with the requirements that we have on the international agenda today, so to speak, the reporting system. We will report every quarter and thus provide the data that we would like to have on the reporting structures, knowing what is happening to Ukraine's economies today. So let's give them for free than we do today to put our generations of futures into a situation where they're going to be forced to give money that they might be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u164	Thank you for asking. I'm answering in two parts. The first part. In principle, with respect to loans of this type by account and international organizations, and in general budget loans. Or an advantageous loan that's given on the terms of the interest rate is lower. Much lower than inflation? A convenient, dear economist will say. Because the loan is given this 2-3 percent year-on-year inflation rate to our 10 to 12 percent. What difference does it make? That's the second part of the question. Such loans, including statistics, are taken by all countries around the world. Now we were working with the World Bank, doing experience. The World Bank has opened a credit line for 100 services from all over the world. Russia has already taken that loan, and Bulgaria and other countries are now taking it. And it's a normal civilized way to solve problems when there's not enough budget funding to sustain the period.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Sit down, Alexander Grigorovich. You won't listen to them. Have a seat, please. From the Committee Sergey Vasilovich Burjak. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Before I go to the speech from the committee, I'd like to focus your attention on the strap that Valeriy Mikhajlovich made, and I've drawn attention to the fact that this is really a loan that should be supported by us. Why? Because not every district office has even an idea of computers. Therefore, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement "Project for the Development of a System of State Statistics for the Monitoring of Socio-Economic Transformations" between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 5 October last year. I'm putting emphasis on that. He was on the committee on October 19th, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine was considering it at its last session on October 20th, but unfortunately the bill did not get the required number of votes. The Cabinet of Ministers informed the Chief of the Supreme Council that on March 31, this year, almost two weeks later, the contract was due to expire. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this agreement is first supported by the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And second of all. We have to support her today, because then we will not go back to that question at all. The purpose of the act is to ensure the ratification of the agreement regarding the granting of a loan to Ukraine for the implementation of the project. Amount: $32 million. The total estimated cost of the project will be almost $38 million, of which, I said, $32 million will be financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and $5.94 million co-financing by the Ukrainian side. Ukraine’s contribution will pay exclusively taxes and other legal fees. The project is scheduled to start this year. The project is scheduled to be completed in 2009. The loan is granted for 20 years with a five - year extension period. The repayment and servicing of the loan will be effected at the expense of Ukraine’s State Budget according to the repayment schedule. The committee considered this issue carefully and asked the Parliamentary Chamber to support this ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Let's talk. Yes. Then give me 12 minutes, please, Mironenko, behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u168	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear People's Deputies, the faction of the Compartia of Ukraine cannot support this bill, first of all, because this loan will inevitably have to be repaid by violating the interests of our people. Secondly, this loan is likely to be disrupted. For after the 91st year, after eliminating the progressive socialist orientation and turning back to capitalism, with its legitimate predatory privatization, the rulers do not build anything but simply adopt everything that was created during the socialist period, delineate, unconscionably delineate, preceding the period of socialism and redirect money flows. I will give one example: on 15 April 2004, the Ministry of Transport issued Order No. 312 on the Robbery of the Maritime Ports of the Locman Service, together with property, income and transfer to the Delta Locman company, although this transfer is contrary to Ukrainian law, the Code of Merchant Navigation of Ukraine. The looted labour groups have filed lawsuits in court and are very hopeful that the Government will not pressure the court and will be law-abiding, cancel the illegal order. The bill currently under consideration would not be useful. Why is monitoring necessary? Why is this loan necessary, when we know that the socio-economic orientation is anti-national, corresponds to a narrow layer of people who are enriched? And those who now support ratification will not only help to set up this loan, but will also help to strengthen the US official to the great extent that is serving the U.S. Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which lends this loan. But there are no respectable gentlemen who are introducing this bill so that our bank, the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Ukraine can earn money. I addressed the Head of Government, Timoshenko, on this issue, the need to ensure the existence, functioning of the bank, but the answer came with a relent, not with its signature, but with the signature of the First Deputy Prime Minister. She doesn't want to deal with this problem. Why? Because it's Yushchenko-Timishenko's team. Yashchenko has established a private bank system that does not belong to our national bank for reconstruction and development, which is strictly necessary in order to reduce the interest taken on the loan provided by the enterprise. Thus, Yushchenko and Timoshenko have destroyed the economy in due course and are now, without desiring to rebuild, to establish a national State Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in fact, continuing the same destructive path of destroying the economy, reducing the standard of living of the people and enriching the narrow layer, including private bankers who are in it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u169	The word is "Chernowian Leonid," to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I want to say this. Ukraine doesn't need it. First of all, I respect the Chief of Statistics here and his service. It has a very important public function. But there is one very important problem that we will solve today, I hope. I see the hall won't vote for this loan. The World Bank offers us other international financial institutions not good conditions. They send professionals here, and then they scrape that money back abroad. And there really won't be anything good about those loans. Ukraine does not need such loans. That's the first one. Secondly, there are certain interests of certain officials behind each loan from world banks and others, because this money is not really needed by Ukraine. Rather, they would have given them to the young. What do they not give under 2 percent for housing construction? Because there's no need for specialists. Because their bourgeois, as Mr. Mironenko said, are not good capitalists who will then be taken back. Whether they give better money, and we vote for housing financing for young families or for older people, we better give them extra pensions and wages. In no case do you miss any international credit. It's all bullshit. Here. That's the first one. And Ukraine is rich enough to be able to attract all funds on its own, including for such a respected ministry. That's true, yes. And it's not true that someone needs international loans. That's as true as it gets. Well, then I'll tell you that it's a bad idea, of course, to put such things on our radar. We have not seen a treaty that is certainly Cabal. Adam Ivanovich needed this contract. I would like to see what conditions for obtaining this loan. And that's what my colleague at our Ukraine told me, the faction that the government isn't really good, took this deal and signed it, and we're here as fools, we're supposed to approve it. Finally, I want to say that, of course, such loans are only for older and young people. By two percent, we will be happy to accept them. And don't forget to call your parents the older ones who listen to me today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u172	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about whether it's convenient for the bank itself, even when it's called the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development, to be able to do charity work. Now, the bank is lending less than the cost of the inflation of the dollar itself. What is the reason for this charity? I'd like the stats to think about it. What is the purpose of the bank’s charity for Ukraine? And if you took it and read that, Adam Ivanovich, I'm drawing your attention to the quality of the documents, this is the font, look. That's the size of a font you can't read. It's on purpose. But we also read this font. So, content in additions, in additions. And here comes 814 thousand. US dollars, that's the cost of foreign consulting firms, foreign individual consultants, 87 percent of the cost of Ukrainian consulting firms. Take this money on the body of the loan, add, look, another way, where the services of foreign consultants are, and you'll see that it's not a loan of two percent, it's a loan of 12 percent! But you don't want to see it, you just don't want to pay it now. You don't get paid. Paying his people the Ukraine. So you say, let's do and then report in six months all the time, provide certified copies of financial reports, accounts, and accounts. And so you, the head of the State Committee, are already under a cap in international structures. And they're going to look, and they're going to check, and what are you calculating, and how are you calculating? And you don't have anything to count. You figure out where the money went to the coal sector to support the coal sector. Count it! Then you will understand why you can double your income in one year. I don't know who else did it, it's only the oligarchs in Ukraine that do it. Bill Gates can't do that. Therefore, the distinguished national deputies, the distinguished Ukrainian people! You're once again being fooled by all these projects, you're being fooled by what the explanatory notes say is that there's an extraordinary efficiency here -- on average, 18 million. A year’s worth of money seems to allow five years from now to buy the investment project. That's impossible. It's impossible because of what I said earlier. So I'm not going to support that kind of credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u173	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u174	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished radio listeners! By the end of the 19th century, the British Empire had a famous prime minister, Dizreli, who was famous for having so many good replicas. One of these is saying, "There are three kinds of lies: lies are ordinary, lies are hidden, and the third lie is statistics." For our statistics to be free of lies, of course, we need to support the State Committee and improve the statistical service by serving the people, not anyone. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, I was very impressed that this bill was filed by the President with a $32 million loan, well, you could even agree with that, but what's behind it? And that's why as a communist, I can give my own assessment and my vision from a socio-classical point of view of what it is. There's a story about Red. About Red Hat and Wolf. Red Hat came to Grandma's with the pies, and instead of Grandma's lying wolf, he pulled the mascot on himself. And the granddaughter says, "Grandma, why do you have big teeth? " And because of this bill, I see the big teeth of George Bush's grandfather and Madeleine Albright's grandmother, because technology, software, information-gathering tools -- all of this is going to be controlled by these teethy grandparents. And then we'll get into trouble when they, these grandparents, get information much sooner than we do. And then Major Melnick's tapes will only be childish. That's why I don't want us to take this loan. And the committee needs to be supported, and let's think about where to find that kind of money. There's governments there, very sharp orange boys and girls, they've promised a lot of things, let them tear up their neighbors -- and we'll have the proper funds with you to support the state-of-the-art statistics. I thank you for your attention and I hope that you will understand this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u175	Yes, dear fellows. Mikola Oneschuk, please. "The Will of the People" faction. Microphone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, something didn't work out here. Technical aspects. I know why the State Committee on Statistics is being attacked now, and especially the government when they analyzed the content of this agreement. It's actually no worse, but probably better than all the many treaties that Parliament has ratified when it's borrowing money from international organizations that have given it on really convenient terms. I note that, in particular, this agreement is 20 years old. That's about a billion dollars a year, a little bit more. Please also take into account that the government actually supports, and this is what the head of the profiling committee has talked about, supports getting this loan, given that its position should be defined as the manager of these funds in determining our decision. The will of the people faction supports this project, ratification, and will vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Change the vote. Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u178	Igor Shurma, Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] I would like everyone who listens to this question to understand one thing that today is the basic working conditions for statistical administrations. They need to create those conditions. Not today. The absence of basic computer technology by normal statistical offices is impossible. But the question is different. On another occasion, Ukraine is lending a loan. Once again this loan will be paid by various consultants and all kinds of firms will receive the corresponding interest for the services. And after 2009, as stipulated in the agreement, we're going to start returning that money. We do. It is unknown who will return, for those who take today are likely, as developments in the executive structure, in the executive power, will no longer be. So we don't have to go on with the trends that we've been voting on customs tariffs, where we're putting our business on blades, we need to stand up for our own interests, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u179	A duck from the procedure, the last one out of the procedure. Microphone, please. Paul Kachur, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that today's discussion shows that we should change a little bit, and the procedure for consenting to sign such contracts is the same. Notice, most of it today. The former majority today speak and criticizes that the government is borrowing a loan, although the deal on behalf of Ukraine is signed by the First Deputy Prime Minister of Azar. The loan has already been ratified by the World Bank’s directorate, which means that we are now in the condition that the previous government made a commitment. There's only ratification behind us. This certainly does not deny that such a loan is necessary, and we really need to look for cheap money to solve problems, first and foremost, and to set things right in statistics, so that we have statistics that help us make decisions, not distort the economic situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal for the adoption of the Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0218]] Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. [[13:32:15.]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Is this the second time we've looked at it? I think we've had enough. Please, Burjak, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! We need to answer a few questions: "How much, why, and for what purposes?" How much? - 32 million. For a term of 20 years plus 5 years of concessional vacation. It's a bet. It's a pound. So far, we've been putting up a lot of sleep. At a rate of 8 to 10 percent. Therefore, I think it is useful to support this bill at least to know for the future what is being done in our country, because money is going to software, to computers, at least as Mr. Mironenko said, to track coal money. At the end of the five years, the committee worked on this loan. I ask you to support this bill, Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u183	A draft law on the ratification of a civil convention on the fight against corruption is being announced for consideration. I think both the government and the committee should work with the deputies. When we're ready, we'll consider this bill. Why vote and smoke twice? Dear colleagues! A draft law on the ratification of a civil convention on the fight against corruption is being announced for consideration. Is there a need to discuss this document? It is, isn't it? They insist, I wanted to offer. So the reporter is Justice Minister Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. Or perhaps a question right away? Questions? Please sign up. Roman Mikhailovich, please say a few words while you're writing it down. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. What questions, yes, dear colleagues, will we ask? Paul Stepanovich Kachur, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u185	Bogdan Kostinuk, please. We agreed for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u186	You may have noticed that this Civil Convention on Combating Corruption was signed on behalf of Ukraine on November 4, 1999. And now it's 2005. So why has this long-standing anti-corruption convention not been passed on to the Ukrainian Parliament for ratification, do you think? And I have a second question. The Convention provides for compensation for damages. Briefly describe the mechanism of this compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u187	Thank you. I find it difficult to comment on why the previous governments and the previous authorities did not want to fight corruption at the level of civil legal mechanisms, coordination at the interstate level of individual legal procedures, in order to ensure that anti-corruption actions by the authorities of the State concerned are taken into account. So all I can say is that this convention is essential for 6, in order to raise our image as a state that, in fact, not only in words, but also in fact wants to fight the manifestations of corruption in our country. There, by the way, all the procedures provided for by this Convention are already provided for in existing legislation, particularly in articles 368 and 369 of the Criminal Code. And maybe that's why there was some delay in submitting this convention to the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it was necessary to finally adopt a new Criminal Code that would correspond to the terms and principles defined by this Convention. With regard to the legal procedure, if a natural or legal person has suffered, in her view, as a result of the corrupt actions of our officials or officials working in public authorities, he may then, for example, apply to the courts of other states. In case. If that invitation is satisfied, then our State is obliged to make adequate and adequate property, and not to make compensation for such acts, in accordance with the convention. But I would like to warn you right now that since the convention is about to enter into force about September of this year, in case. Of course, there will be a positive decision, so actually these costs will be, well, rely on the state budget just next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u188	Novak, please, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u189	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Roman Mikhailovich, the fact that Ukraine is one of the most corrupt states in the world has defined, not even us, but the definition of the world community. Every government that comes to power announces its priority — the fight against corruption. This war with corruption usually ends with the victory of corrupters. The government seems to be. So the public officials already have this stereotype: it's not their fault that they take it, and it's our people, it's theirs, it's just theirs. And the question I have is, as you think, Ukraine's participation in this convention can contribute specifically to order in Ukraine, namely, to the creation of civil and legal mechanisms to protect the interests of individuals and legal persons against corruption. To be honest, I'm beginning to feel for Europe that it's going to have a country as corrupt as Ukraine in the fight against corruption. I'd like to answer my question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u190	Well, first of all, I can't comment on your preamble, having exactly the position I'm currently in. I'd like you to appreciate what I have to say. If I were a national deputy of Ukraine instead, I would be able to properly and, by the way, practically positively confirm what you were told in the preamble to your question. As for now, the question is specific. Much of the coverage of corruption on the side of our high and, by the way, not entirely high officials is covered at the level of our courts. I'm not going to make you empty declarations that I, as the minister of justice, am going to fight that phenomenon. I'd like to be able to appreciate my actions, somewhere in the next year, I think you can either criticize me or you can't criticize me. Let's leave it to the future. But I can say exactly that a judicial mechanism in foreign courts of corruption involving individual officials of our state can help us to apply these legal mechanisms in our country. So in a simpler way, if corruption is going to require payment not in the form of property or property on the part of the State Budget, then I can tell you exactly that then the government will just be forced to take really real steps to fight corruption. And that's why this convention, as for me, really needs a government in the first place to make it really take concrete steps, a concrete fight against that disgraceful phenomenon in our society. At least as a government official, I fully realize that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u191	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you, time is up. From the committee to the presentation is the first deputy head of the Committee on European Integration, Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u192	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, when deciding on the draft law under consideration, the members of the committee came from the fact that Ukraine's accession to the Civil Convention on Combating Corruption under the auspices of the Council of Europe is an important fact, a fact that testifies to our willingness to fight corruption The problem of corruption is certainly not only a mere Ukrainian phenomenon but a phenomenon, as the world’s name suggests. It is known that corruption, in particular we can say about Ukraine, greatly complicates economic development, undermines the rule of law and the confidence of citizens in their government, leads to a sharp decline in the standard of living of the people in general. And the accusations of corruption and disgruntled government have in a number of years damaged Ukraine’s economic reputation. Ukraine's accession to the Civil Convention on the fight against corruption will, to our conviction, be a step towards a fundamental change in the situation in the area of combating this negative phenomenon, require active and effective action by the authorities, as well as active participation in this process of society as a whole, including business circles, NGOs, the public, because the main objective of the Convention, I would like to highlight this, is to ensure, in addition to attracting the responsibility of persons who commit corruption, and to be affected by corruption by a particularly complete compensation for the damage done. And this, I think, is very important. Such compensation may involve material damage, loss of profits, and minor damage. In doing so, compensation is provided for both the commission of corruption by officials, both by the authorities and by the governing bodies of non - state institutions. Having declared the course for European integration as a strategic foreign policy course for our state, we should remember that the main objective of European society was to create, and I quote "freedom, security and justice zones" as set out in chapter four of the Treaty establishing the EU and chapter six of the Treaty on European Union. In this regard, ensuring ratification and implementation of the most important international instruments aimed at combating illegal migration, organized crime and corruption is one of the most important tasks of the Ukrainian Parliament. The Committee on European Integration considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law on the Ratification of the Civil Convention on Combating Corruption be approved. This decision was also supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, as well as by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u193	Yes, thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Dear Colleagues, enrolled ten People's deputies for discussion. Let's at least have a discussion in 14 hours and make a decision. Well, they insist on performing. Mironenko Victor, Communist faction. Get ready for Alexander's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u194	The faction of Compartia Ukraine, Mironenko, Crimea. The faction of the Compartium has consistently fought for the establishment of a legal, indeed democratic State, and is therefore in favour of the bill. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Yushchenko-Timoshenko coalition, which is effectively continuing its capitalist pro-Western anti-Russia policy, is operating in double standards with regard to corruption. According to the dictionary of Ozzegov, corruption is bribes, sales of officials, politicians. In a sense, it is also the same in terms of the definition in article 2 of the Convention that we are currently considering. Well, now let's see if we're essentially based on the definition of corruption, is this convention going to work for us when there are, for example, such facts as: the United States has allocated money to the so-called "orange revolution," that's what Senator Ron Paul, who is known to have said, acknowledged the sending of money to win the so-called "democracy" and they're open even through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the ambassador of the United States, sold it to Yushchenko, whether it's corruption or not? The money that came to the political leaders, the political forces in the name of victory, in the name of gain. Next: how can we assess the intervention of representatives of the current authorities in the Supreme Council Hall who are threatening physical execution: shooting a communist who is opposed to their positions in the forehead is critical of them. These are all threats, aren't they? By wanting to preserve power. For what? In the name of life. Next point: Please note that the United States is supporting these forces, these pro-American anti-Russian forces. And these “saves”, as one deputy has said here, these seams, political seams are barking at Russia and brotherly Belarus, thereby harming the people of Ukraine, hindering the restoration of Ukraine's beneficial economic, social and cultural ties. And it's only because these political squabbles want to continue to get some help from the United States, to retain power, to gain benefits. Is it corruption or not? I would like to ask the representatives of the Government a question. Yushchenko and Timoshenko, they say this is why Mironenko does it. No Yushchenka, no Timoshenko. And when I see their policy, I will speak with them, and Allah will grant them to come. Then I would say, "I have sent you a message concerning my constituents. - and asked you to answer me and my constituents in person. You transferred it to Kinakh, who also gave a completely defiant response." Let us remember the conscience, the loyalty of the people and, indeed, we will fight corruption in real terms, but we must change the power to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u195	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, distinguished President of the Supreme Council! I want to draw attention to this convention. And I'm also talking about supporting the fight against corruption, and I think that the Hall will probably have to ratify it. But there are some provisions that are disturbing me, and the Minister has actually brought this to my attention. The pronunciation is good, and the content leaves us with a desire for the best. And I note that the practical convention says that we cannot make decisions except for separate paragraphs - we can only make decisions in general. Article 17 says that we have no right to make any exceptions to the convention. What is this convention about? I fear, Roman Mihajlovich, that we, citizens of Ukraine, will not be in the same situation as citizens of other countries. It is said that if a national of another country feels that he has suffered some damage: moral, material, or has lost any benefit from corruption within our country, he will appeal to his own court, the court will decide - and our party will compensate him for the loss, compensate him for his benefits, and compensate for the damage. And the most dangerous in terms of that. The state of power that we know today in Ukraine is a corrupt power above and above, we will reimburse these damages mainly from the budget, because it says that, if these actions are imposed by the authorities, by the representatives of budgetary organizations, the State is responsible for the reparation and therefore for the budget. Do you not think that, as soon as the Convention is ratified, Ukraine will be hit by the crackdown of these claims, I am sure that it will not be the person responsible for corruption who will pay the price, not the person responsible for the punishment himself, personally for violating the laws of Ukraine, but our people will pay, our voters will pay the budget of Ukraine. Regrettably, I reiterate that the Convention does not allow ratification except for certain provisions. And it seems to me that this provision for reparation, for example, I would like to exclude it when it comes to ratification, otherwise you and I will find ourselves in an unfavourable position. [[Article 5]] I'm paying attention for one more moment. This Convention well reflects the fundamental right, the legal right of Western countries - reparation, and material reparation. And the punishment for damage? What about criminal proceedings for damages? You and I know how hard it is to prove corruption in court, how hard it is to prove bribes. Thus, there is no material damage to the Convention in the first place, no other criminal damage and so on in the Convention. I don't know. I know that the Communist faction has decided to support the ratification of this convention, but I read that this is a half-measure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u197	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! Of course, in discussing whether to support or support the Anti-Corruption Convention, I think that we must come to the conclusion that we must support this convention. To support at least because, in fact, wherever, whoever and how does not discuss the state of affairs in our Ukrainian society, we are beginning to talk sooner or later about corruption eating us up. Of course, corruption is all over the world. But, unfortunately, as a State, we have become, so to speak, leaders. And using sports terminology, it's only natural that I'm already wearing the leader's yellow shirt for whatever it is that we need to either lubricate or, excuse me, throw it away. Otherwise, a more regular citizen would get nothing. Of course, the adoption of this convention is and will be an appropriate signal to us, as a State, as a society, to the world community. That Ukraine is ready to fight this evil, to fight under civilized conditions. And here, therefore, is the emergence of a new moment, which occurred, at the time of reparation for the victim of corruption, there is a positive moment. We can't help but agree to that. But I would also like to express my wish to our distinguished minister and not simply as an official, but as a person who is headed by the Ministry of Justice. Under our normative framework, the Supreme Council Rules, if we propose ratification of any international treaty, and in any way contravene or contravene the existing legislation of Ukraine, which in this case is the case, we must consider on the one hand both the Convention and the addition and amendment to the existing Ukrainian legislation to bring this legislative area into line with the obligations we, as a State, assume, including in international relations. So, I think we need to take these things into account. And while we must support this convention, I am deeply convinced that the Ministry of Justice must, as appropriate, take into account the topic that has passed, but do everything quickly to ensure that the amendment to the legislation that we now have, which does not correspond to certain items of the proposed convention, has been removed, and the additions to the amendments to the bills in force by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Supreme Council have been removed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Invite the national deputies to the session room. We're going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainians, the Convention has been in place since the year 99. Why was she lying there? I'm going to give an answer to what it was, because it's completely out of line with our legislation, and we're not in line with their legislation. And now I'm wondering why speaking from a committee of one, from a legal -- no one came forward, no one paid any attention to the overwhelming conclusion, and I repeat the overwhelming conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. That's all Basil Nadrag just said. And he said, let's take it. And now let's think about, the citizens of Ukraine, who will stand for every Ukrainian, what we will now show that we are of the pants of the lesion to jump into Europe. But don't jump this into Europe, it won't make any sense. And I'll tell you why it won't make sense, because the convention predicts that article 10 is called bills and audits. The convention foresees that every year, I repeat, it will be mandatory for the auditors to confirm the reliability of the annual reports of all completely, without exception to economic activities: small businesses, beloved ones. Please tell me, Your Honor, are you willing to pay for this today? And wouldn't that be a new step in the expansion of corruption and not in the fight against it? That's the first remark, most importantly. Second, article 7, part 7 of article 9 of the International Contracts Act, states that when an international treaty is being tabled for ratification, which requires the adoption of new or amendments to the applicable laws of Ukraine, drafts of such laws are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, together with the draft Law on Ratification, and are adopted simultaneously. I'm asking, where are the projects that we have to take at the same time? There are no projects like this. No, there's no such thing as nature. What should we vote for? So we have to vote against breaking this rule of law, violating the Audit Act, which only speaks once every three years of conducting audit activities that are mandatory, and only mandatory for banks, funds, markets, companies and so on. So what do we do then? Are we doing better or worse? And let's see, the convention is signed on behalf of Ukraine, not of the President of Ukraine, and it's not submitted by the President, it's submitted by the government, and it's signed on behalf of Ukraine. Science-expert's conclusion: postpone consideration of this. I'm not voting for it to get deeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, now one minute before the vote with a motive, the minister of justice asked for a generalization and then from the generalizing committee, there will be a line. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen of the Ukrainian People's Party, with regard to some of the conclusions that have been made here, I would ask that you also take into account the situation that, when this Convention was introduced into the session room earlier, to this Convention, this bill was an entirely positive conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Suddenly, there was a second scientific and scientific conclusion that was somehow different. So I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to resolve this situation. It's. Of course, it's my competence, but somehow it's very strange that things like this appear. Now essentially the observations made by the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to start with an audit, because somehow there's the biggest problem with that. I'm surprised that the Scientific and Experimental Authority doesn't know that the directives of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, which are adopted by one or the other legislative act adopted by the Council of Europe, are part of the Convention itself or the legal act itself. So I'm drawing your attention to the fact that on November 8, 1990, 15 years ago, a Council Directive was adopted, numbering 90-604, which amends the directive, several directives, and according to which an exemption was made for small and medium-sized enterprises that are not subject to Article 10 of this Convention. And in any country that ratified this convention, article 10 does not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. In general, according to another directive, I'm not going to be looking for an annual audit number, there's a comprehensive list of types of enterprises that fall within that standard. So to say that this convention is not in conformity with the Ukrainian Act on Auditing is totally groundless. With regard to other rules of law. Indeed, there is a gap between the laws of the Law on the fight against corruption. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that since I did not have the opening statement where I was supposed to emphasize these things, give me one more minute. But the point is also that the most basic document that regulates corruption is the Criminal Code. Please read articles 368 and 367 of the Criminal Code. And it's this code that's written according to the convention, except that it wasn't ratified at the time. With regard to payments from the State Budget, as spoke of by the distinguished national deputy of Ukraine, Alexandrovska. Of course, it will be payments from our State Budget in the event that corruption is established. But I would also like to draw your attention to such a fact that, in the event that there will be a payment from the State Budget as compensation in accordance with the decisions of foreign courts, there must be an open prosecution in a criminal case by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. And I was told by the members of the Committee on Budgets that is preparing a new budget code, where this particular facility should be written and even more clearly. So it seems to me that this is exactly what we need to do in order to force our officials not to engage in corruption and, more importantly, to force the prosecutor to fight this kind of activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u203	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, thank you. Yes, with a motive, please, Rephat Chubarov. And I beg your pardon, I'm asking the Secretariat to prepare a written commission now that it's like they've replaced the conclusions so that there won't be any double readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u204	Okay. And I'd like to start my time again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u205	Yes, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u206	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I would like to say this a long time ago. Colleagues who come out of the rostrum always want to have a few arguments, not swearing words, you know, brutal words. For one of our colleagues who is very talkative, and who, by the way, is trying to speak as an expert on any issue that is being addressed in the Supreme Council Hall, I would just like to explain that the Ukrainian word "puppy" is not an adequate Russian word for "swipe." But I want to tell him what he thinks is right if he's offended by that word, because only stitches can go on and on about the same thing, regardless of what's going on here. I want the Rules Committee to somehow get us out of these, you know, so that we don't hear the same thing in the morning. It's, you know, a moral ideological genocide on the part of our colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u207	Yes, please, Bandurka. Well, let's vote, dear fellows. Please, Bandur's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u208	Dear fellows, dear Head! Of course, a bill has to be adopted is the authority of the state. And this will allow Ukraine to take another step on the international front of fighting corruption, which our state should be a part of. But at the same time, perhaps it is appropriate today to make a protocol commission to both the Ministry of Justice and the relevant committees, finally to determine the acceptance and content of corruption itself, which is under national legislation, because in different laws it can be interpreted in different ways. Relevant coalitions are being created to deal with such cases, both administrative and criminal, in the courts. That's why the Committee on Law Enforcement would take the initiative, and we invite the Committee on Legal Policy and the Ministry of Justice to deal with it. And the faction of Ukraine will vote unanimously in favour of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u209	Yes, I am voting on the proposal to approve the draft law on the ratification of a civil convention on the fight against corruption. Please vote. [[14:05:22]] For 267 Decision taken. We ratified the document. Darling, the line, the name was on it. Please. The factions? Now we're going to show by factions. The factions, please. Well, now, Nadrag's gonna say the line. The last name was mentioned, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, here was a claim made on whether I reasoned my position, so I can say: we voted in favour because we understood that this convention was necessary in all imperfections. On the other hand, in the part of the person who says, well, I would like to advise those who say the opposite things with one faction: my dear, well, you're holding a faction meeting, and you'll find it easier to get your positions together, not to bring the discussion into the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-16-m0.u211	Next. Please give the factions a vote on this question, please. I'm reading for: "Our Ukraine" - 47, Communist faction - 50, "Ukrainian Regions" - 22, People's Party - 25, SPU - 24, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 22, "One Ukraine" - 3, "SDPU - 17, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Will of the People" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Union" - 7, "Centre" - 8, "NDP - "Republic" - 8, "Posafration - 7. Thus, dear colleagues, we have every reason to declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Parliamentary hearings on judicial reform in Ukraine will be held at 15 hours. Since 16 hours work has also been done on committees, factions, and groups. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work from 10 a.m. to Thursday. Thanks for the job.
