ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. There are 411 National Deputies cards registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Let us now consider the second reading. There is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for the Further Exploitation of the Operation of the Chernobyl AES and the Transformation of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES into an Environmentally Safe System. [[on the conservation of tax benefits]] Please, Shiko Yuri Volodymyrovich two or three words, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u2	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian National Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee submits a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation and Disposal of the Operation of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the Conversion of the Destroyed Fourth Block of this AES to an Environmentally Safe System. The bill is designed to eliminate the problem of maintaining social infrastructure and employment in Slavotic. The maintenance of Slavotica’s social infrastructure by April 1, 2001, was provided at the expense of the arrival of the Chernobyl nuclear power station at that time. After the closure of the Chernobyl AES, all of these objects were transferred to the city’s municipal property and their maintenance was provided at the expense of the city’s budget. In order to maintain the level of social security of the citizens of Slavotica and their employment, the Law on the Common Principles for Further Exploitation, Removal from Exploitation and Conversion of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of the AES into an Environmentally Safe System was adopted. This law of Ukraine provides annual State aid to the city budget to maintain social infrastructure in the necessary scope. A grant from the State Budget is available at three million dollars each year, but funds are being removed from the city’s budget to the state’s in the range of six million to seven million dollars each year. This leads to a city budget deficit. In 2005, this deficit amounted to more than five million dollars. The issue and employment of the city’s inhabitants are difficult to solve. Experts are forced to emigrate in search of work. The bill is intended to continue to provide favourable conditions for creating working cities in Slavotici by creating attractive conditions for investing the city's economy. The adoption of this bill will soon allow you to save and create more than 720 jobs. The amended Bill 6268 takes into account all the proposals made by the national deputies, as reflected in the comparative table. The Chief Legal Authority made some remarks regarding the bill. According to the committee, these observations are largely taken into account in this issue for your consideration. The name of the bill, amendments and additions to the basic economic laws, has been changed, and the text has been processed in the Editorial Department of the Supreme Council. The committee proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this draft law of Ukraine in its second reading and generally as a law. Today we celebrate the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear station. Less than a year later, the 20th anniversary of the terrible Chernobyl disaster, which claimed the lives of nearly thousands of our fellow citizens and maimed hundreds of shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u3	Thank you. We're going to vote now. But there's a draft decision on inadmissibility. Weakness, please take three minutes to argue, and we'll be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u4	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, electoral district No.19. The bill that we're looking at is two key positions. First, it is the annual drafts of the State Budget Act to provide funding for measures to eliminate the negative social consequences in Slavotic in connection with the closure of the Chernobyl AES. I think it's the right position, and it would have to be supported and looked for clear sources of funding from the State Budget. But there's another second position. The position is set out in paragraphs one, sub-paragraph one, in paragraphs two, third and fourth of the bill, which provides for exemption from taxation of import operations, transfer to customs territory of goods, equipment that is likely to be used for the development of production in Slavotic. In fact, in my opinion, the companies of Slavotic will not get anything out of this because they do not have these standards. In large numbers, we get the same priority development zone or free trade zone as we can call it. Let's pay attention. First of all, we're exempting all the companies that prove they're doing this, they're importing these goods for production there. At this point, the distribution of this benefit will also be for enterprises that will be created, let's say, on paper, and it will occur on the course of time that these benefits are granted, which is until 2010. The proposed changes also apply to the exemption from payment of duties. So, there, really, a slightly different mechanism is set up to register in the right place, to agree with the local government, to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers on the corresponding quotas for goods and products that will be imported. But in turn, it's the same again that we can say that we're creating a new priority development zone with this bill, or whatever you call it. The proposed changes, in my view, are in direct contradiction with the law “On amending the Law on the 2005 State Budget” and some other legislative acts that introduce moratoriums, a five-year moratorium on the granting of new benefits and the extension of existing benefits. So I suggest you delete the corresponding items, were without this project. Bill. But since he's been through second readings, I'm making my own decision to reject this bill. Based on the fact that today, if we're saying that the state budget has to be controlled, how much money is coming and how much money is then being used to support the whole place, that's one way to solve the issue, and if we're going to provide benefits that will be used by enterprises, we're not going to account for them in the state budget for a year, we're not going to know what real businesses are going to be doing, after 10 years of operating peacefully with equipment going from one place to another, they're going to be doing their active business operations there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the draft decree of the People's Deputy, Sergija Slabenko, on inadmissibility. Let's vote the law, then there'll be motives. On the non-admissibility of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the General Principles for Further Exploitation, the Removal from the Exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the Transformation of the Destroyed Fourth Energy Cloud of this AES into an Environmentally Safe System. [[on the conservation of tax benefits]] I'd like to make up my mind. For - 24. The decision is not supported. Reported to the profile committee. All proposals reported by Yuri Shirko are taken into account, we have reason to vote on the adoption of the second reading and as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law “On the general principles of further exploitation and removal from the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the damaged fourth energy cloud of this AES into an environmentally safe system”. [[Registration number - 6268]] Please vote. For 232. The law is passed. Thank you. Yes, for reasons, please sign in for three minutes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u6	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Not for the first time in this session room are we seeing a demonstration of so-called fiscal pureliness. It's like taking care of the rules of the Budget Code and some higher political goals, actually, it's about breaking down social programs, important social programs. So I would like to remind everyone that if the Westerner had been the guarantor of the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear power station and given at least a penny of money, "we would have stood by this bill," which, at least today, allows the zone to survive in a closed zone, makes it possible to compensate for the losses that we have not received before, because this block does not produce electricity. I would ask all Ukrainian national deputies to remember tomorrow and to remember that people live there and suffer cruelly, but you think of a variety of political insinuations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u7	Andrew Polit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u8	Andrew Polit, Company faction, please pass the word to Solomon Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u9	Please, solomatin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u10	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we support the bill and you could put a dot on it. But, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I have to address you again as chairman of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the early afternoon there was an attack and beating up of Ukrainian national deputies on the construction site in Kiev at Shamrilo, 2b, “Baby Railway”. I explained it in detail. The chairman has instructed the Secretariat to report immediately to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, this eagle, this Lucenka, the Attorney General's Office, to immediately address the appropriate brigade, to find out what's going on there. And that's what's going on. Bandformation called Antiterror-Alpha does some kind of incomprehensible function. Adam Ivanovich, I ask that you immediately assign an order to carry out such an action.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u11	We'll give these functions, but so far we don't run the Attorney General's Office or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We'll figure it out. Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u12	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues! I would like to tell you that, as a faction of the Narona bloc of Lithuania, we supported this bill. Why? Because, I recall, he proposes to suspend the withdrawal from the local budget of Slavotic, the town of Slavotica money into the State budget for the period until 1 January 2010. Why? Because traditionally, the borders created Slavotic after the Chernobyl disaster, they created normal resources to build the whole socio-cultural system so that people could live there normally. Regrettably, there was one speaker here who said that, in today's discussions on the equalization of the budget policy, we have, in fact, a very important and very necessary matter, such as the support of the town of Slavotica, buried, and today there is a pitiful existence of the public service. As this is particularly relevant, we have therefore voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u13	Yes, we did, let's move on. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on Social Guarantees]] Here we have a whole series of bills -- 6530, 7121, 7021-1, two and three. Consideration of the matter under reduced procedure. That is why I invite you to the floor of the People’s Deputy Rudenka Hennadia. Who? Please, Shirko. Get ready for Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u14	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill No. 6530 proposes to improve pension insurance, to set minimum pensions for persons with disabilities involved in eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and evacuating them from a 10-kilometre alienation zone for which the causes and links of disability from the Chernobyl disaster have been established, setting them at an appropriate percentage of the subsistence minimum set for those who have lost their jobs. It is legislative to organize the issue of housing and utility benefits, to divide by species: housing use, utilities and telephone use. Draw close to the law on the status of war veterans and guarantees their social protection and the Family Code for the identification of the list of persons who are members of the families of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Apply the name of the executive authorities to the applicable legislation and clarify their competences. Clarify the timing of the work to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident in the alienation zone. We received positive conclusions from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine and the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster have generally supported the bill by making observations and suggestions. Bill 7121, 7121-1, 7121-2 introduced by the People's Deputies of Chelnokov, Hinzburg, Goshovsky, are aimed at raising the level of pension insurance for the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed the draft legislation and decided on the appropriateness of adoption on the basis of the draft law, registration number 6530, taking further into account the specific provisions of the draft laws introduced by the People's Deputies of Chelnokov, Hinsburg, Goszovsky. [[7121]] [[7121-1]] [[7121-2]] The committee recommends a bill on the recovery of the benefits of registration number 7121-2, which was tabled by the Ukrainian national deputies Matviyenko and Boyko to be rejected. Three. I'm sorry, three. Decline. A similar decision and committee on pensioners and veterans and disabled persons. Tax benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Tax System are established exclusively by the laws of Ukraine on taxation and can only be established by amending these laws. The introduction of amendments to article 48 of the law in the proposed edition is not possible because the minimum wage is not determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u15	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u16	Applying changes to article 57 is not advisable, since the actual revision clearly sets out the mechanism for determining the average monthly actual salary for calculating pensions. The proposed changes to article 70 are regulated by the Ukrainian Law “On the Unification of Citizens. ” Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill number 7121, Chelnokov Sergei. Prepare Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Recently, we have addressed you on several occasions with regard to the pension of various categories of our citizens, in particular the employment pension at the age and pension of military pensioners, as well as the pension of veterans and disabled persons of the Great Homeland War. Only the pension issues of the citizens who were affected by the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident were out of our attention. As a result, the pension of this category of our citizens has become the lowest. This bill, which I am now presenting, is intended to address the pension issues of citizens affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. In particular, the bill provides for the introduction of the accrual of pensions in accordance with the Act on State Pension Insurance, which is in force. In addition, the determination of the pension to the disabled liquidators is expected to take into account not only the wages but also the incapacity rate. This bill streamlines the appointment of pensions to emergency-servicing liquidators who have become disabled. And that, in my view, is very significant, eliminates the possibility of regulating the pension provisions of citizens who were affected by the Chernobyl Nuclear Power accident by the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill has been drafted with the direct participation of Chernobyl organizations and is supported by them. Given that its implementation would require additional costs and costs from the State budget, in accordance with article 27 of the Budget Code, its implementation should take place from 1 January 2007. I'll ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u19	Thank you. Bill 7121-1, Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, please. Vladimir Goszowski to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. 161st District, Communist faction, Olga Hinzburg. I would like to ask you to support the amendments to the introduction, status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And before I say what I'd like to change in this Law, I'd like to draw the attention of the government that's here today, that the approach to solving the problems of a category like Chernobyl, there are disabled people, or other defenseless layers of our population need concretely, not just written at all, and then you catch these mistakes. If he catches it right, they'll go through the Supreme Council. If you haven't caught it, people have been suffering for years, and they lose their earnings. I just want to pay attention. Every question needs to be dealt with scrupulously, especially where people expect this help from us. More specifically, the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster has such a pattern. You see, article 57, the benefits of calculating the average monthly wage: the calculation of the average monthly wage is carried out in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act. At the same time, at the request of someone who has applied for a pension, the average actual salary for calculating the pension can be paid for any 12 months in a row in the area of radioactive pollution. Listen carefully: in cases where a person who has applied for a pension has worked in radioactive pollution areas less than 12 months, the average monthly wage is determined by dividing the total amount of earnings in the calendar months, and in cases where a person has worked in the territories less than a month, the pension may be calculated from the salary for this calendar month. And that's when it turns out that man didn't work from the first to the 30s, not from the first to the 20s, but, for example, from the second to the 28th or the third to the 16th, it doesn't count. Therefore, in this law, article 57 should be amended to read: “Pension can marry any actual 30 calendar days.” And that's all, and we're taking down the problem. I would like to point out that this law, the implementation of the proposed supplement, requires additional budgetary expenditure. It is therefore proposed that the proposed supplement be effective from 1 January 2006 and that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since the difference between the amount of pensions that a person is entitled to under the law, is financed by the State Budget, and these costs are included in the list of protected expenditure articles of the State Budget of Ukraine in the preparation of the 2006 State Budget Project, and we will also consider it, taking into account the category of these retirees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u21	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. Vladimir Goszowski, Bill 7121-2. None. Well, the committee reported. And 7121-3, Matvienkov-Boyko too, but the committee gave its opinion. Yeah, we'll talk about it? Yes, summary procedure, please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please block Julia Timoshenko. Get ready for Zarubin Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u22	Honorable fellow national MPs, distinguished by our electorate, and above all our dear black people, those who have been through this raging hell! It's a good thing that today, in fact, we have all day black and white. We also discussed the situation at Chernobyl. And I have to tell you, let's say, my position, because I headed the first Chernobyl committee in our Parliament, then it was called "the commission". And all those three drafts that apply to Chernobyl, I stood up for this platform at the time. I understand very well that the laws we passed at the time may have been somewhat hyperbolic. Why? Because we were all then possessed by this Chernobyl, this lie that we surrounded every human being, we surrounded Ukrainian society. And of course, we wanted more of these people back then, we literally sat down and told them what kind of benefits we could give. Because I am absolutely, I realize that this may not be very popular, but I want to say that there are, of course, certain benefits that are obsolete. Because when we were depriving, that is, when we were giving a non-payment of duty, then none of us thought there would be any adjectives that would transport dozens of cars from abroad and not pay any taxes for it. Because I'd like both the MPs and the people who listen to us to know that not everything is there, as it were, in these bills, not everything is so good. But there is another situation. There are many benefits that people don't even mention anymore. They know perfectly well that no one will carry them out. So let's say the same cost of curing children or exterminators or victims who, if someone who's more apt to get there and has a best man or sister-in-law there in this Chernobyl office, it's captured. To the rest, to the common people, to those who really went through this hell, and not, as has been said here, to go anywhere near here, of course, these benefits do not come. Because I want to say that I find these attempts very commendable today, something a little bit more to add to the Chernobyls, a little bit more to the benefits. It's perfectly normal. But I think, look, we have a whole bouquet. We have these diverse bills today. And today, to make it look like we're going to be two or three and one of us isn't going to get away with it, it's going to be unfair. Because I'm on behalf of the faction, someone's asking if they're wrong or not. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, we think that all these bills need to go through this stage, and we've discussed them. And yet do, turn them back to re-reading and bring them back to the same bill. I think this is going to be the best option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u23	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, people who, for example, have survived the loss of a limb, tell us that in their dreams it hurts really. This somewhat simplified approach at the same time very much illustrates the post-traumatic state of our entire society. Wounds on the social body are embedded in the social memory, and they appear to be very difficult to heal. The Chernobyl disaster is the pain of the entire Ukrainian people. In time, it was somewhat quiet, but it did not pass away, for a large number of our fellow countrymen suffered irreparable grief, loss, and moral loss, I would stress, even the moral loss resulting from the Chernobyl disaster. The same is true of the way that society, as a state and power, treats people who have personally experienced Chernobyl’s bitterness, can also be judged by the level of social trust, as well as the level of social security of the State as a whole. Finally, humanity, justice, and dignity. As far as the latter is concerned, it is those on a foreign mountain who try to warm their hands, including undeservedly receiving the benefits of being poured out into a good copy by the State on a scale. Secondly, some of the funds allocated by the State to finance Chernobyl programs have the ability to run, as they say, into the sand without reaching the recipient. It turns out that in a famous Ukrainian story, the battle of an unimportant relationship. Thus, the faction of the People’s Party of Lithuania advocates the formation of such conditions in the state and society if social justice were fully restored, including the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. For this reason, first of all, it is necessary to clarify existing targeted social protection programmes for citizens affected by Chernobyl events, to adapt them to the state's current realities, to strengthen state social guarantees and to improve their quality. In view of this and of the other right points that are presented in the bills, the Lithuanian People's Party faction considers it appropriate to support this bill, it is 6,350, in the first reading. We deserve the attention and innovations of Bill 7121, including the determination of the minimum pension size, the calculation of the pension size, based on the average wages of employees employed in the economy of Ukraine, the individual wage coefficient and the incapacity ratio, and the mechanism for regulating other issues is proposed. The People’s Party’s faction is set to support all these innovations as contributing to the identification of the status of the victims of the Chernobyl accident and to the maximum satisfaction of their problems, particularly the compensation for health loss.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u25	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists, prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, today the Chernobylites have been taking care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with their demands not to allow budget cuts in the financing of Chernobyl laws. And I want to remind you, all of us, what I reminded the Chernobylites, only in 1991, when there was a powerful state of the Soviet Union and its powerful oil-dollar budget, the Chernobyl laws were implemented by 80 percent, and in the coming years after independence, this funding was declining and now it's only 20 percent of what it needs. So I just want to say one thing about this, without increasing budget funding, all the requirements that come with, fair demands, people, they're not met. Some 40,000 people with disabilities are now receiving a pension lower than the subsistence minimum as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. So people are going to die. Chernobyl children are paid as state aid for 3.3 bracelets a month, and only 10 percent of Chernobyl children are healed every year for just 2 weeks, instead of 2 months. To raise pensions, the black people were given 280 million dollars -- that's good. But at the same time, it is suggested that the benefits of health care for the disabled — 81 million dollars and the recovery of the citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster — 220 million dollars, a negative balance — 20 million dollars. So no sanatorium travel and no free prescription is given. In addition, the Ministry of Emergency Management has prepared a draft government decision to refuse free medical care to liquidators affected by the Chernobyl disaster of the second, third and fourth categories and children. This is a direct violation of article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which, in adopting new laws, restricting existing citizens’ rights, including the right to protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, is unacceptable. Those bills that you and I are currently discussing in the context of a reduction in funding for Chernobyl programmes, which is what the budget for the following year is all about, de facto, for the disabled to be able to pull on themselves the dreary budget blanket of Chernobyl even more debilitated. Where's the exit? One way out is to increase budget expenditure. And this is possible if you point to the Chernobyl programs part of the money that came from the sale from the privatisation of Krivoristali. Above all, we should expect the Chernobylites to regain Soviet power and socialism. And it's going to be like in 1991, 80 percent of Chernobyl funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u27	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I think most of us will support the parliamentary initiatives that are set out in these bills. Yet I would now like to draw your attention to something else. The thing is, we in Ukraine think that we have 2 million 600,000 victims as a result of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Sadly, such an international organization as MAGATE thinks otherwise. The report that this organization has distributed states that the victims in Ukraine are much less than in Belarus and Russia. All the causes of various diseases are caused by stress caused by psychological factors and lack of information. Such an organization’s position is worthy of indignation on our part and on the part of other countries that have suffered after the accident. At the same time, the position of the Nobel Committee, which recently recognized the organization and its leader as Nobel laureates, is surprising. In this regard, I would like to express the position of many of the members of the BUT faction on what to define as winners of this prestigious prize an organization that did not understand, which speculates on the problems of the Ukrainians, is wrong. We're going to look at these structures that determine, and we're going to look at the Kingdom of Norway for the reason that this is only a protest in Ukrainian citizens. You can't bring the problems of Chernobyl down to psychological stress. A false organization that speculates on such diseases in entire generations of Ukrainians, Belarusians, and Russians cannot be defined as a model for imitation for other organizations. With regard to the bill, we would suggest that all authors reconsider the positive points contained in each bill, take one of them as a basis, and vote in a friendly manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u29	Thank you. Question completed. Two for, two against. They said so, so please put your hands down, we'll vote. We'll vote. Oh, I'm sorry. There is a decree of inadmissibility. Oleg Tuggnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u30	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the draft law that we are considering, in particular number 6530, I think is completely considered and positive. In particular, the draft is intended to supplement the law with an important new article 71 of such a meaning that the act of articles of this law and parts thereof cannot be suspended by laws other than amendments and additions to the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And in order to exclude the brutal attempts of the Ukrainian Cabinet, which continues the genocide of Ukrainians, particularly in the person of the Chernobylites, through the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 to repeal the norms of the current Chernobyl law, which we are seeing right during the budgetary process this year. However, there is a note regarding part 1, paragraph 12, of this project, which proposes to supplement article 54 with a new part 4 in the new edition. However, the already existing part 4 becomes part of 5 and is not excluded. So there's a uncertainty about which part is going to work. This, in turn, can lead to a deterioration of social security for Chaes. Such a new reaction to article 54, part 4, of this law suggests determining the minimum amount of disability pensions, based on the minimum cost of living per month per person who has lost his job. However, article 54 of Ukraine’s current law recognizes the minimum pensions for disabled persons associated with the Chernobyl disaster, resulting from the minimum retirement age. In accordance with article 28, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Act on “On compulsory government pension insurance”, the minimum pension size at 25 years of age and in women 20 years of insurance is set at a minimum for persons who have lost their employment in a defined law. So in draft law 6530, it's a calculated substitution. Chernobyl’s pensions, based on the minimum pension size for those who are defined from the minimum subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs, result in a reduction in pensions for persons with disabilities who are linked to the Chernobyl disaster. It is appropriate to prevent deterioration of State guarantees on the basis of Article 3.5, Part 1, paragraph 2. I propose that paragraph 12 of Part 1 of the draft law amending the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster be recognized and removed from the text of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u31	Thank you. Yes, respected colleagues insist that those who have signed up for motives. Please, just a minute. Melniczuk. The storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u32	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. This is about the fact that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine decided to support the bill at its meeting. But I would like to draw Parliament's attention to those people who have been displaced from the Chernobyl area. I recently visited the village of Novoleksiyevka in the region of Cherniewec. Humans have virtually lost their landslides. Their compensation has not yet been paid, as guaranteed by the State. Bus connections are very bad, medical services are bad. And I think it's not just an example in the New York City, but it's practically possible in all the villages where the Blackwaters are displaced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u33	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u34	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] First of all, I would like to say that in the whole idea of these bills, which relate to the enlargement of the recipient population, the increase in pensions -- that's all that deserves attention. But just as these bills have been written, they'll be most likely rejected, and they're perfectly legitimate. But I do have one question. All these bills are amendments to the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The question is, are all the nuclear wastes planned by the President going to be made today because in the Blackwater region itself, as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, these mutants who are born after they take this fuel and store it, will they ever be counted on for changes and additions to this law or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u35	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. All those who signed up. I repeat: don't raise your hands. There's order, well, don't make exceptions, you don't have to make them. All those who signed up spoke. There may be many willing ones, but there are regulations. We'll vote. I'm voting for acceptance as the basis for the first reading, sorry, sorry. First, I'm going to make a decision on the unacceptableness reported by Oleg Teagnibok on the inadmissibility of the bill, on the amendment of the Ukrainian law on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to registration number 6530, to certain articles. I'd like to make a statement. For – 16 It's a non-adopted decision. I am betting on voting, on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, registration number 6530. [[on Social Guarantees]] The authors of Rudenko Hennaday and others. Please vote. For -274 Copy that. It is based on the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft Law, registration number 7121, by Sergey Chelnokov. Please vote. For – 206 Not accepted. The first reading vote is based on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens, registration number 7121-1, author Olga Hinzburg. Please vote. Support the woman. For -248 Copy that. It is based on the first reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, registration number 7121-2, author of the national deputy Goszowski Vladimir. Please vote. For – 208 Not accepted. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 7121-3, authors Matvienkov and Boyko deals with the vote. Please vote. For – 200 So, dear colleagues, we supported two of the bills. And I'd like to request a profile committee in preparation. Don't insist, there'll be no votes. There will be no votes. I'd like to ask a committee of profile to prepare the law for the second reading to bring them into the same law. That's the first one. Second, I'd like to take into account and look at the suggestions that other authors have and put them in a comparative table. And you and I are going to be defined as the law in general, because they're not virtually alternatives to each other, they're complementing each other. So let's do it this way and let's do it to take into account the proposals of all of our colleagues. Is there no objection? Thank you. Here we go to the draft law on the state-wide agricultural production programme in the area that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster 2005-2015. I don't see one of the authors who's defined as the reporter. That's why Grzezhev is both from the committee and as the author. Because he is also the author of this program. Please, three minutes, Anatoly Dmitrovich. You can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u36	Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich. To your attention, you are invited to consider the draft Law on State-wide Programme for the introduction of many agricultural productions in the territory that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. You have it. The main purpose of the Act is to implement a public policy aimed at the integrated rehabilitation of agricultural production in regions contaminated by the Chernobyl disaster. I would like to refer to the reasons for the introduction of this law. First. There are 2,161 settlements in the area, with more than three million inhabitants. They are engaged in agricultural activities in that territory and consume the products they produce. Of course, these products are more contaminated than in clean territories. Of course, this affects the general infection of this population. Therefore, our duty, the duty of the State to mitigate it somehow, because the fact that they are engaged in this production is dominant today. And we can't influence that yet. They'll still be doing this. So there are 600,000 children living in this area. We must do everything we can to make them healthy. This means a comprehensive recovery of the entire territory. Fourth. The housing area where these people are located will continue to be maintained. That is why there is a process of vitality. And people need to be given hope in the future so that they can be sure that this territory will be normal for their lives. And finally, the fifth. Our Constitution obliges the State to protect its fellow citizens from the consequences of the accident and to ensure their safety. So all the proposals for this, come back, all the comments and conclusions that are made, by the relevant committees, by the central executive authorities, are positive. In addition, proposals were made in the drafting of this bill by our colleagues. They are part-accounted for, while the rest will be further developed in preparation for the second reading. Dear colleagues, people are looking forward to the adoption of this law because this is their life, and they need to help. I ask on behalf of the committee that has considered and decided unanimously to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u37	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? All right? No, it's not clear. All right, then. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Olena Bondarenko, prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u38	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, in general, are relevant, and its approval is justified by the need for rehabilitation measures for the regions most affected by the Chernobyl disaster. At the same time, among the priority follow-up measures, and they're called 5 in the project, I think it's worth focusing on the most important ones. These are primarily agrotechnical, agrochemical, and organizational. In particular, the soaking of land with rape, the construction of mini factories, and so the creation of jobs, the restoration of pottery, which is ultimately the same thing for the Polish region as coal for Donbas. Today, Leonardory has been destroyed, and modern - day mills have been destroyed and looted. Is the issue of agglomeration so relevant? In the Polish region of Kiev, for example, in radioactively polluted areas, the very desiccating systems themselves have been destroyed, with pipes cut into scrap metal. In addition, unthinkable meliorative measures in the neighboring region of John’s region have disrupted the natural equilibrium so much that wells dry up. Regarding zootechnical measures. Obviously, there is a point, first of all, to talk about the resurgence of meat farming, and in the same Polish region of agriculture. Because today, virtually no one is here to feed pure food and consent to ferocin, which is also affected by certain issues. The next moment. Perhaps the program should be limited to the first stage, since the second stage is entirely dependent on the results of the first, and is of a sufficiently declarative nature. Next. How do we determine the effectiveness of investing? To determine the effectiveness of the chains: the cost invested -- getting clean products -- reducing the presence of radionuclei in the body. We have to calculate the cost of man/greet for Ukraine. The program is effective only if the cost of a person/greet after the action is less than before the action is taken. It raises a question of what's not written, who's subsuming, who's putting in the Cabinet of Ministers, who's controlling, but there's no mechanism for using the funds. And another big moment. The programme provides for annual budget allocations of up to 150 million dollars over the course of 10 years. In addition, the development of appropriate programs is envisaged at the district level, which also requires considerable expenditure from local budgets. For a long time, Kiev was plagued by a natural disaster called Aminterforma. In that case, a very important thing went unheeded. I think at the time of the creation of the one Chernobyl region and the cost of the roses, and control over their use can be improved. Thus, the program itself needs to be started. But our faction believes, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, that it needs substantial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kalinczuk next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u40	Dear colleagues! Honorable Voters! Strangely, of course, you and I are people. We've got thousands of acres of unsowed weeds from Hersonland, right down to Central Ukraine, well, West a little differently, because there's all kinds of weeds growing there, and we're drying our heads, we're directing the telex of Parliament and our scientists to, well, have to plant this 30-kilometre zone with a barrel, so corn or something. In fact, to her God, if you look on the side, you might think that this beautiful parable of God’s decision to punish a person takes his mind away from her and, instead, infuses her muscles and biceps. Well, really, you'd have to think about something else. But here was my colleague, Elena Bondarenko, and I want to say that, of course, we also have to think about this fifth, the tragic fifth of our Ukrainian land, this hole in the very center of Europe, and we have to think, let's say, it was a very good version, I know, in scientists about planting rape there, because it's the least that's going to suck up to its own radionuclei, and then it could be made out of rape and diesel fuel and gasoline and all kinds of supplements and so on. But on the other hand, once again, I'm saying, there's both thoughts and moods, because you know perfectly well that Chernobyl is built brilliantly in a crime scene, if that's what you're saying. And the whole of Ukraine is on this, on the granite shield, right over there in the Chernobyl region, and there's this split today, and 800 of these temporary, so-called graves, which have been submerged there for 20 years, and there's the same red forest in the same place, and no one's been able to take it out. And we have a picture today where actually all of these surface waters are already polluted. And once again, this is the site of this rift, and these waters can easily reach the main water pool. And then we have to tell Europe and our neighbors what's just waiting for us there could be another huge catastrophe. But I'm telling you again. This program, it's naive in a lot of places, it's a little bit primitive, but in general, let's say, it's against it, well, conscience doesn't allow it, because it's the same village that eats from it today, whether it's good or bad. Our president wants to go there today, so make a range for the world at all. As a result, I am convinced that it would be better to have a primitive agricultural farm there, rather than a global garbage dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u41	Vasil Calinchuk. Sergei Shevchuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u42	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Chernobyl International Community has been defined differently, including how a communal rural accident, which overwhelmed the normal structure and life of the affected rural population, has changed the people’s permanent connections with the environment. The impact of the accident resulted in a significant loss of physical and moral health in the affected areas and not only in radiation but also in a multifaceted impact on the psychological condition of the people. Thus, the Chernobyl disaster has many negative effects on the rural population, and the effects of radioactive pollution are much more complex. In doing so, the social consequences of the accident proved to be particularly severe for the population of Polissia, where agricultural production is the main sector of the economy. Natural landscapes provide much of the product, and the amount of irradiation of the rural population is largely due to the use of local food. The production of agricultural products, the content of radionuclei that exceeds not only the current standards, but also the temporary ones that were set up in connection with the accident at CHEUS, is a huge problem for the state, as well as the production of conditionally safe products. Regrettably, in Ukraine, the volume of counter-radiation measures in agricultural production aimed at maintaining radiological safety products is now estimated at less than 10 per cent of the need and is much lower than in Russia and Belarus, which is why the number of population centres with a high annual dose of radiation since 1994, despite the natural breakdown of radionuclides, is virtually unchanged. As a result, the faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania supports a programme developed by the people's deputies in accordance with the concept of agricultural production in polluted areas, as the bill deals with the rehabilitation of radioactively polluted soils if approved, and will contribute to a more rational use for the purpose of producing environmentally sound agricultural products. That is, people in polluted areas will have time to improve their diet and then reduce the number of diseases generated by the environment. And this program, once again, I want to emphasize that the faction of the People's Party of the People's Block of Lithuania will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u43	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies! It has happened that the vast territory of our nation is radioactively polluted, and it is not just separate cities or populated areas, it is practically the entire region, the northern region of our state. Millions of Ukrainian citizens will live and live in this region. And regardless of the status they have in their territories, which is the status of 3 zones, the zones guaranteed voluntary eviction or the status of 2 zones, the area of unconditional eviction, they will not leave this area. And today, so many years after the crash, there really was an alternative that would be with this large part of our nation. Whether this part will be depressing, where people will traditionally get sick, or whether there is another perspective. And it seems to us that the introduction of the National Agricultural Production Program in this area is exactly the way out of a deadlock, because this program provides for the rehabilitation of the soil, provides concrete ways of reducing the damage from the use of non-pure radioactively contaminated products for millions of our fellow citizens. That is why such a program certainly needs to be considered, perhaps improved, but our task today is to support this important bill in the name of the nation’s health, in the name of millions of Ukrainian citizens. If we don't support him, there'll be another alternative. And this alternative has been talked about quite a lot today and has been mentioned a lot. It's about turning the North of Ukraine into such an area of all kinds of nuclear waste dumps, not just Ukrainian wastes, but the whole world, and then toxic wastes, and then some strange ghetto. Therefore, we call on the BIT faction to take this bill carefully and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u45	Thank you. Question completed. Melniczuk, one minute. The storm is a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u46	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The point is that I would like to emphasize once again that there are three million Ukrainian citizens. We're talking about their fate, we're talking about how they live in this area today, and what makes them survive there. That is why we are in favour of supporting this bill and will vote in favour of it. And I invite all the national MPs who are here today to support this bill. And one more thing. If it's not agricultural production, if it's not animal farming in this area, what else, please? But to do so, the State must allocate the necessary funds to carry out melioritative measures that will certainly affect the quality of the produce produced there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u47	Igor Šurma, please. Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u48	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction will support this project, which determines state-wide measures for the comprehensive rehabilitation of agricultural production in a radioactively polluted area. But I have another question: Why is Parliament, and not just today, constantly making changes: So the Blackback Protection Act, we are making some priorities so that people can work in the polluted territory? And at this time, the President is absolutely inconsiderate in commenting that there will be dumping nuclear waste in Ukraine. There are graves in all of this. Why in Ukraine we create additional, artificial conditions for the waste of Nazi activities to be stored here. We should not allow them to be buried, and thus we will be less forced to carry them into the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u49	Gennady Rudenko, please. Sergei Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u50	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In support of the entire committee program, there is a desire that the subsequent governors, namely, the municipal authorities, worked more effectively, exercised their powers more seriously, came up with local programs that would receive support from the state budget of Ukraine. Because it will be very difficult to control such programs. There's a fear that there's going to be another dead program, so I think it's repeating that for the first reading we need to maintain, work very seriously then and do the maximum direct action program. Because in recent times, especially the Supreme Council has come up with many laws of indirect action that are sometimes quite eloquent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u51	Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u52	Sergi Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Well, once again, when I returned to my earlier decisions, I was able to stress two things. First, you know, we're very easy to give a lot of benefits to entrepreneurs and we're creating in a separate region of Slavotic, then monopolies, who're going to bring goods in different ways: equipment, equipment. And it's very difficult to talk about the protection of a peasant who's in the alien zone and the land that's been affected. I think that, really, the program is necessary today, that really, these jobs should be done. What is noted is that there are, for example, objections to certain provisions proposed by law, they are subject to correction in the second reading. I would also urge colleagues of ours to return to this issue in the sense that the use of measures in this polluted territory will enable future generations of Ukrainians to use Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're all alone in supporting this program. Let's show it by voting. I'm betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of the law on the state-wide agricultural production programme in the area that was exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster 2005-2015. Please vote. 7133 Bill. Vote. For – 314 The law was passed in the first reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the comments that have taken place regarding the beating of some of the national MPs. The head of the Supreme Council had a conversation, no minister was found, with the prime minister of the interior. We promised to figure it out, to intervene in this situation. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Registration number 3647. Reports by Andrew Dercach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, designed to introduce specific positions of Ukrainian legislation in the field of the use of nuclear energy and radiation security in accordance with the same European law, to increase the responsibility and competence of senior officials in the operating organizations of nuclear installations. In addition, the bill removes contradictions between the existing standards of Ukrainian legislation. The first group of changes proposed. It refers to terminology and some editorial remodeling of the law in force. The second block of change is the need to remove various interpretations of the designation of authority and self - control over the granting of permits for uranium mining, nuclear facilities, and radioactive waste management facilities. The third block of change is aimed at ensuring a more responsible attitude of operating organizations toward their financial obligations in the event of a possible nuclear accident. And to the end. The bill clearly establishes the nature of legal relations related to the responsibility of the nation of the head of the nuclear power grid and organization. In general, a positive assessment of the bill was given by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the PEC Supreme Council Committee, environmental policy, European integration, the National Academy of Sciences and a number of its leading nuclear academics. The bill received a positive assessment from the Maintenance Regulation. Please accept this bill in the first reading and on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u55	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? I remind you, the fifth anniversary is not today, the fifth anniversary of December 15. So can we vote without discussion? Please, Andrew School. Yavorovsky insists? Yavorowski is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u56	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. Of course, it is a perfectly simple and necessary law. Because Ukraine ratified the United Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management in April 200. And now it's also an important resonance social significance after, according to various figures, different words were spoken from the President's mouth about where to hide, whether on or around the Chernobyl AES, or within a 30-kilometre zone. So this law takes on even more meaning than the author put on it, I think. But of course, I would like to talk about such a thing as not being in Ukraine not only the desire to build new power plants, new nuclear power plants, but even the lack of a desire to build richer combinations in Ukraine, because we have in Ukraine enough wide, sufficiently branched crops and much of which are already explored, uranium ores. But unfortunately, we're enriching the uranium not in Ukraine, but we have to drive to Russia, they're enriching us there, these. Here and once again, Ukraine acts as a poor orphan who can't, but he wants to, he can't, but he has to. So this addiction needs to be broken up and, in principle, I'm sure it needs to be done as quickly as possible. Because, despite all of this, this is really the next energy, this is electricity, especially for household needs, for the needs of the population, for the consumer of private energy, because now, of course, when Russia's massive and fairly electoral attack on rising gas consumption prices is going on, of course, right now. if the answer is to be prepared in the future, in order to decondemn Ukraine from external factors, whether it is elections or not. As a result, the enrichment of uranium ore in Ukraine must be necessary. It is necessary to produce fuel for nuclear power plants in Ukraine. And of course, building nuclear power plants, building new, new power plants are needed in Ukraine. And that's exactly why we need to bring it in line with the legislation, in line with the convention on radioactive waste management. Of course, here, in its original form, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not foreseen, but, you know, the Constitution is not meant for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to do so, so we need to support it. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should determine where to build, where not to build, which parts of the laws are needed to adopt, and so will the Supreme Council. So in the context of future changes, I think this bill needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u57	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u58	Vladimir Yavorowski, BUT, Yavorov, Zovva Dear colleagues, I don't think we should, and perhaps those who listen to us will realize that today is not some sort of election to Chernobyl. And I'm convinced that even though the 20th anniversary is still out there, we have to talk about it, because, unfortunately, this colossal disaster, of which the genius Ukrainian poet John Durres said that the nuclear lightning hit the genetic roots of the Ukrainian nation, we started to forget about it in silence, talked about it, there came a whole armada of fake browsers who never even smelled Chernobyl, and today almost all have witnesses because they have seals, they can rear-end their deployments and so on. Because of this, there are some clarifications that we are introducing today in a number of bills. I am convinced that they are essential and that we absolutely need them today. But because I remember exactly when we were adopting these bills, we were adopting them in some kind of, let's say, psychological impact on Chernobyl. And what we're dealing with over time, that we're going out on some civilized standard, it really impresses me that all of this is in these bills. I'm absolutely convinced because I have a moral right to talk about it, because I was one of those people who actually spoke, and I'm saying again, under the shock of that shock, that maybe we should just collapse nuclear energy at all. Today it's obviously an occasion, and an opportunity to change your position in favor of a smart, normal way out. And I am convinced that nuclear energy has a future in Ukraine. But as it may be, someone will not like it, but I am convinced that we should not only be attached to Russian technology. We are tied to their fuel, and today we have a colossal problem, then we built in the Soviet Union under Krasnoyarsk the only repository where our nuclear waste was to be transported, and today Russia is very often blackmailing us on this, whether it will accept these wastes or not. Because of this, there is a colossal problem, of course, perhaps somewhere in the future. Communists, don't yell at me, I'm not afraid of you! Well, you're not yelling at me, it's not working! Because I want to say that maybe we should build these things. We have to think about it. But we need to move on to European technology, not just to primitive Russian technology. We've had enough of this RBMK-1000 for a hundred years closest to the Ukrainians. As a result, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, next Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u60	Oleg Zarubinsky, Lithuanian National Block. Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable colleagues. The low problems raised in this bill are indeed life - giving. For example, the inscription near one of the nuclear objects on the wall warns: “The explosion of a nuclear reactor can ruin your whole day.” That is, the sense of constant interference with the life - threatening object and the memory of the Chernobyl tragedy is ironic in the locals. After all, they understand that they are walking under God, and they have nothing left to look forward to. The world is largely plagued by natural disasters beyond human control. Ukrainians often suffer from technological disasters caused not by nature, but because of their ignorance or negligence at all levels of the social hierarchy. The eternal question: What to do? A radical change in the situation. I mean, to form a legal field that would ensure that nuclear and other technologically hazardous objects are fully exploited. And any action, any decision on these objects would make it as transparent as possible. That is, it is about establishing responsibility for the development and operation of the listed objects. Only by minimizing the impact of the so - called subjective human factor in the exploitation of technology - hazardous installations can the population be minimized and mistrusted. You don't have to be a seer to predict the response of the local population to their existence within the limits of their technologically produced danger. In today’s world, respected colleagues cannot develop a successful economy without involving nuclear technology. As the most effective way to obtain energy today, replacing the use of millions of tons of natural oil, gas, oil, and then rationally and stressing, its deliberate use contributes to improving the country's environmental situation, as well as to enhancing the country's energy and economic security. And only the presence of a human factor makes nuclear objects at some point extremely dangerous. Since any government official or civil servant is just a manager, a hired people, who are responsible for organizing the activities of those or other objects, we advocate the formation of such a legislative field that would clearly define the actions of a certain leader, especially those of an ecologically dangerous nature. Regarding the bill, the Lithuanian National Party considers it appropriate to support it in its first reading, since it will help improve the nuclear situation in Ukraine as a whole and develop it into a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u61	Yuri Solomatin and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I'm very surprised by the play by a Chernobyl soloist who changes factions and views about the development of nuclear energy like seals, but does not distinguish "A" from "B" in physics. The failure of HAES and RAES — the atomic blocks of this Chernobyl soloist — cost us three billion dollars to the state of Ukraine! And now we're making up for what we lost, and he's singing us his Chernobyl songs. Dear colleagues, the amendments to the bill are proposed in the following major changes that the decision on the construction of nuclear facilities will be made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a Chernobyl syndrome that we should finally get rid of. And it is up to the Supreme Council to make such decisions, because according to 95 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, there are other matters in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We can make any decision today and this is the law, but it will go against the Constitution of Ukraine. Whether we need to break this Constitution again and again, even in such matters. In my opinion as a specialist and an expert, no, let the executive branch of authority be responsible for its responsibility. Let experts, experts, nuclear energy scientists, who distinguish A from B atoms, be responsible for what the people and the state have entrusted them with. And finally. I'd like to say, I'd like to say the following. This bill that we're considering with you today is very controversial, and it's also palliative. And even if we approve of him, I'm sure we're pretty close. near the time when we will repent with you, as was the case today with the Blackwater soloist, and correct this not a very good decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u63	Yuri Petrovich, English for “salt” rather than “salt”. Accordingly, it is not “salova,” but “salova. ” Yes, please put your hands down. Please let it go. The last name wasn't on it. Yes, please, Melniczuk. The storm is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u64	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. The Socialist Party faction will support this bill, and we suggest that it be accepted as a basis. Of course, the delimitation of the competences of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and local executive authorities, the local self - government authorities for decisions on the construction of nuclear installations and facilities for the management of radioactive wastes, and the provision of safeguards, financial opportunities for nuclear damage at the point of introduction into the operation of a nuclear installation. And what I'd like to say about the President's initiative is that the last word belongs to Parliament and that's why we don't have to stir up emotion here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u65	Not all the last word after Parliament, there are other rights in the Constitution. Please, Shurma. Next Rudenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u66	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I just want to say that the faction supports this bill as much as possible. But I would like to reassure one speaker and remind the other. One speaker said that he was in shock after a technological disaster, and he was very concerned that we were tied to Russian nuclear fuel. I want to reassure you: you were then, perhaps, one of them was in a state of shock – today all of Ukraine in a state of shock, that Ukraine's largest patriot -- the President -- today gave everyone a guarantee and a commitment that we will not be used to Russian nuclear fuel today, but to the waste of nuclear fuel sent abroad, and we will keep it here. These are the consequences that await us, and they are a threat, perhaps, to the twenty - first century. And I'm asking my brothers after the revolution not to calm down about what the President said, but to remind him that we can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u67	Gennady Rudenko. Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u68	Ladies and gentlemen of politics of various political powers, the goddamn political relevance, unfortunately, is often accompanied by the imposition on society of a view that sometimes differs from that of professionals. It's nice that we have the same perspective from this bill, so we're supporting this bill. But there is a desire for politicians, especially I repeat, before the parliamentary elections, not to produce new draft legislation on the spread of social benefits to black people. Let's do as much as we can with the bill as we can today, and in turn demand from the government that the bill be reviewed from the point of view of its implementation, because today it is implemented by 25 percent, or that it is made by other political decisions. We support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u69	Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, this bill does not have any benefits; it is intended solely for the professionalization of the management of nuclear energy. To prevent unprofessionals from running the Chernobyl station, when unprofessionals were running the same time as our atomic company. I agree with the Communist position that the case of the executive is an executive matter, but unfortunately we cannot yet trust her with everything, including the organization of the management of such an important industry as nuclear energy. That is why I would ask and appeal exclusively to the Communists, and all the rest of the factions support us. To support this Act, because non-professionalism in nuclear energy is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u71	Yes, the discussion is over. But I haven't heard that the Communists don't support this bill. That's not how you must have understood him, his language. Dear colleagues, let's really support a friendly bill that means ensuring our nuclear and radiation security. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Registration number 3647. Please vote by the constitutional majority. For - 299. The law was passed in the first. By factions, please, because they sounded here. "Regions of Ukraine" - 47, Communists - 51, People's Party - 34, "Our Ukraine" - 21, Block Timoshenko - 25, Socialist Party - 19, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, People's Block Lithuania - 20, Social Democrats - 15, "Trust of the People" - 8, National Movement - 11, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Reforms and Orders" - 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 10, non-fractional - 12. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on social protection of people living in observation zones]] Registration number 5753. Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u72	Dear colleagues! Ukraine is a State that uses high technology. Often these technologies are dangerous and we can only use them if they improve the quality of life of our people and increase life expectancy. Nuclear energy also applies to such technologies as are necessary to improve the well-being of the people of Ukraine. However, the population must be sure that, if there is an atomic power plant in the State, all measures have been taken to ensure its safety in any situation. The population must also be aware of the economic benefits of a number of nuclear power plants. The law requires that the bill proposed to your attention requires that the territory around the nuclear power plant should be in good condition before the nuclear station is launched, and that the existing nuclear power plant under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be built so that when the people and forces involved in the elimination of the accident do not exceed the limit values, and that the authority of all levels be ready to act, building on the existence and readiness of the building, construction and technology systems. In a normal situation, the population would have economic and social preferences from the established territorial security infrastructure of the nuclear power plant, as would the business based on this infrastructure and the cheap power of the nuclear power plant. According to universally recognized responsibilities, the owners of the nuclear power plant for harming the health of the population, the owner also undertakes to monitor the health of the people living here in accordance with Minhvod's rules. This practice of interest in the population and local authorities has been implemented in all nuclear-powered countries, as well as article 12 of the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, adopted in 1995. But the Government's kaleidoscope has not since developed practical mechanisms to protect the interests of the population and business in the nuclear power plant zone. The Committee, with a positive opinion from the Scientific and Expert Office, held a broad open discussion, completed by a round table and developed a more legally accurate text. The Committee proposes that Bill No. 5753 be adopted on first reading. The bill is supported by members of the Mintopenergo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u73	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? He's still not gonna make it to Panasovski. It won't work anyway. Dear colleagues, do you mind if I take a minute? You bet? Please, Sergey Shevchuk will show us an example right now. After him was Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u74	I'm going to give a really one example. Menievetsk district of Volinsk district, bordering the nuclear power plant in Kuznietsovsk A territory that was polluted after an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. A territory that has environmental problems associated with the operation of a new nuclear power plant. The territory where people are sick. And in those days when the power was down, the only light was from a clear moon and from the fires of this new building of the Kuznietsov nuclear power plant. At a time when there was total darkness in the surrounding villages. The population does not have any benefits at the price of electricity. So I propose to support clearly the Bill of the People's MP Bronnikov as one that has a very important social significance. The purpose of this bill is not only the reliability of nuclear installations but also the reduction of the risk factor that is described as a human factor because people live around them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u75	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski's microphone. The next one is the Vitaly Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u76	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Yavorowski. And I want to tell you on behalf of our faction. It's a very good law, it needs to be supported. It brings out the level of our nuclear energy, the use of it on the world's standards. All over the world, there are monitoring, monitoring, and monitoring of the health of people living around. I think it's very good. And I want to answer to one of my colleagues who said there about some soloists, I don't know who he meant, but I feel like the word "salt," he understands that it comes from salsa and nothing else, I don't think, this fellow doesn't know. And I want to remind him that it wasn't Yavorowski who brought on May 1st the children who were undressed when the nuclear cloud from Scandinavia turned and went over Kiev, and the party that it belongs to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u77	Vitaly Oluiko, Mikola Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u78	People's MPs, the use of nuclear energy requires a system-wide legislative settlement. The faction of the People's Party, by proclaiming the fundamental principles of its activities to establish a fully-fledged civil society and the rule of law, calls on you to support the bill of the People's Deputy Bronnikov as one that envisions the establishment of a special legal regime for areas where there is a real threat of pollution from nuclear installations or other sources of ionizing radiation. The social orientation of this bill will allow our citizens to believe in the interest of the State in the future, who lives in high-risk areas. With regard to the comments to the bill, some reconciliation is needed, first of all, of an understandable apparatus, since the content of the concept of “watching zone” introduced by the bill and the similar term used in the current version of the Ukrainian Law on Use.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u79	Thank you. The gardener is handing Michael Melniczuk over. Microphone, please. Next Proscorat, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u80	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. The faction will support and vote in favour of the bill. I would like to bring to the attention of all those who are present in the Hall, honourable colleagues, we have always listened to the statements of senior officials of the State over the years, but we parliamentarians have always been able to protect our Ukraine and Ukrainian society. I think that those who don't understand that Ukraine already has a cemetery where our children, grandchildren and great-grandkids on Chernobyl’s AES are not going to let anyone else take waste to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u81	Tamara Proscuratov, microphone, please prepare for Panasovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u82	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. While supporting the idea of the bill, it should be noted that it is not worth defining social infrastructure but rather to establish a normative list of social infrastructure facilities and their capacity to provide services for the number of people living in the area. And the second point is about electricity tariffs in the observation zone. In our view, benefits for the consumption of electricity from the population that is there are intended to be provided, not as valuable subsidies, but as targeted subsidies for certain consumption limits. And finally, a bill of this kind requires a detailed financial and economic justification that the corresponding expenditures were put into the budget next year. Thus, the general conclusion of the bill is positive and can be based on the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u83	Thank you. Panasovski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u84	A professional duty obliges me to report the information to you. The law, of course, has to be passed. But I would like to draw the MP's attention to a fact that does not require evidence to extend the scope of the law. For information: According to the Institute of Biophysics and the Ministry of Health of the USSR, the risk of 1,000 megaWatt heat stations living in the area corresponds to a dose of about 6 Ber per year or 420 Ber for 70 years of life. By the way, all installed power stations in Ukraine are 2-3 times more than the calculated power. The incidence of TEC-free disability diseases is 20 times higher than that of the AES, and coal TECs, together with smoke and hall, release a large number of natural radioactive substances into the atmosphere. According to the expert assessment of the former USSR, an effective equivalent dose of radiation to staff from thermal stations is 40 times higher than the equivalent dose of human beings in human settlements near the nuclear power plant. At the same time, the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u85	I can't afford you all to be the same. I repeat. Short-term procedure. 4 comes out, the rest comes out of motive. You were 7 written down. If you do, you'll give him a minute. Have a seat, please. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on social protection of the population living in observation zones. Registration number 5753. Please be supportive. For 252. Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Konstantinovich Bronnikov. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Sorting of Nuclear Security Issues in respect of Financial Reserve Formation. Registration number 7785. Short-term procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u86	The honourable colleagues who proposed the bill to your attention appeared as a consequence of the National Bank's protest against the non-proprietary, against the non-proprietary. In 2004, at the hearings on the Chernobyl issue, we examined why the State budget was still burdened by the maintenance of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. In the end, we have adopted a law that obliges the operating organization to develop early drafts to make the EC an environmentally sound system and to create financial reserves for this purpose. We have committed the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure public public oversight of the process of training and halting the operation of the nuclear power plant for the use of funds from the financial reserve of the owner of the nuclear station. Traditionally, without trusting the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have also exercised control over the current activities of the Nuclear Power Plant and the National Bank of Ukraine, forgetting that the activities and powers of Ukraine are governed by the laws of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u87	I'm sorry, this is a report. Three minutes, please. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u88	Having forgotten that activities and powers are regulated by Ukrainian laws on the National Bank of Ukraine, on payment systems and the transfer of money to Ukraine by the Ukrainian Code of Commerce. As a result, there has been a legal conflict that has been eliminated by this amendment to the law on the regulation of food related to nuclear security with regard to the formation of a financial reserve, which Nazbank exempts from the responsibilities of ongoing control of the financial activities of the nuclear station. The bill was supported by the committees on TC, nuclear policy, nuclear security, the Committee on Finance and Banking, and European integration. The bill was also supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine. Since the bill is essentially technical, we ask that it be adopted both on first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u89	Yes, thank you. Shall we discuss it? We will. Please, according to previous tradition, Vladimir Yavorowski, microphone, minute. Vasil Nadraga is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, the idea of creating such a fund, it's long gone abroad and it's been wandering around here for a long time. It's just that we have this tradition of the Soviets that we've all come out of -- to live today. And to think that tomorrow we're going to have to shut down the nuclear station, and one day it's going to be. And by the way, Ukraine was in this situation literally before this bill was introduced. We really need this, because sooner or later, we're running out of resources and nuclear blocks, if not whole stations, we're going to have to close the blocks in turn. That's why I'm absolutely convinced, and Bronnikov here is absolutely right about what needs to be done. So let's support this bill. I think you can do it immediately both in the first reading and in the second reading, because it really is purely technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u91	Basil Nadrag, microphone, please. Mikhailo Melniczuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u92	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Of course, today, when we consider all issues to some extent related to both the Chernobyl disaster and, in general, nuclear energy requires the utmost attention. Unfortunately, I want to say that we have a lot of policies in the areas where there is to be a clean economy. And today, when we consider what we need to form or not to form a fund for the financial reserve, I think that the issue here must be decided. In any case, the members of the People's Block of Lithuania will support it, because, by creating a financial impact on the future, we are giving an opportunity not to run in the fire, to solve problems as we are now doing, but at least in some system to prepare ourselves and our economic situation to solve these problems. So once again, the law is normal, we support it, and I think the rest of the room is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u93	Mikhailo Melniczuk. Sergei Slabenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u94	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexander Moroz, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Socialist Party faction will necessarily support acceptance as a basis, and perhaps if there is no objection, it will vote in general. Of course, the author of the bill made proposals. Of course, this bill expands the operator's operating organisations' right to choose resident bank institutions to place funds in deposit accounts. This will have a positive effect on their financial activities. And certainly we will support, as I said earlier, the faction on this point has been identified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u95	Sergei Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u96	Sergey Slabenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, 19 constituency, Wallinsk region. I think it's only the first time I read it. I'll stop by on my notes to the bill. Accordingly, those proposals that deprive the National Bank of the right to approve the provision of special accounts of an operating organisation for the formation of a financial reserve are not fully consistent with the applicable legislation, namely the National Bank of Ukraine Act, in its respective articles. The project also does not define the term of validity of the law if approved by the Supreme Council. Instead, I would like to point out that by adopting the relevant State Budget Act 2005, the Supreme Council stopped articles six, nine, 14 of the corresponding draft law. The same draft law clearly changes these articles. So I think that this would have to be handled carefully, and when we accept it in the second reading, we need to correct the flaws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u97	Thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ordering of Nuclear Safety Issues, registration number 7785. [[on the formation of a financial reserve]] Please be supportive. For – 318. Thank you. Dear colleagues, no, there was a denial in the first reading. Dear colleagues, be careful. In order to fully resolve our hands with nuclear security today, we have a question about, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[on compensation for the settlement of a 30-thicylmeter risk zone for the deployment of nuclear power plants]] We need to put it in the agenda and make a decision. No objections? I'm betting on getting in the day-to-day. Please vote. Registration number 8123. Vote. For – 279 It's on. Please, Vladimir Bronnikov, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u98	Honourable People's Deputies, you have before you a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. Ukrainian legislation enshrines the right of the population to social and economic compensation for the risk of their activities at nuclear sites. In particular, article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security guarantees to the population in the area of the location of the nuclear power plant the right to accommodative energy consumption. In Soviet times, there was a 50 per cent discount for the use of electricity in the location of the power plant. But within 10 years of article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Safety of the Rights of the Population. The Government has not found an opportunity to pay attention to the issue of the establishment of a legitimate concessional energy regime. The drafters are nine deputies from most factions, who believe that 50 per cent of the benefits for the use of electricity in the area of the nuclear power plant should be provided with discounts, as was the case in the past. The profile committee on the fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear safety has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it as a basis, taking into account the basic provision of compensation to energy suppliers, the reduction of electricity charges in the area of nuclear power plants with the profits of nuclear power-generating companies. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine points out that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can also be adopted as a basis. I beg your pardon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u99	Thank you. Please, in a minute. Javorovsky I'd love to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u100	Vladimir Yavorowski, block of Julia Timoshenko Dear colleagues, we are indeed very, very positive about this law. The only thing that, for example, keeps me from voting for him is that there are no financial conclusions. It would still have to be known what this bill would cost us. What? Yeah, if by the arrival of an atomic station, not by the state budget, then I'm convinced that he just needs to give green light and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u101	Please, Basil Nadrag. Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u102	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the drafters of the bill are professionals, i.e. the people involved. Therefore, based on the logic of writing this bill, he is not proposing anything new. He suggested that the rule that had existed before 1991 should be restored. When the State, in favour of citizens living in the nuclear power plant zone, in the 20-kilometre zone, as I am rightly told here, gave me a 50-per-cent discount on electricity. It's a normal question. Unfortunately, in our circumstances, it is almost the only thing we can do for these people. Because once a sociocultural service, roads, transportation in this 20-mile zone, there's no point in moving here today. The question is, let's get something back to the people who are actually in a safe, dangerous 20km zone. From here, we will take a normal step to make our citizens feel that there is a policy other than our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u103	Vladimir Novak, please, microphone. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u104	Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The law is extremely important. I'll get the numbers. The Cabinet of Ministers has decided to allocate 42 million dollars for the development of the infrastructure of the 30km area of the Hmelnicka AES. This money had to go to the gasification of villages, the construction of roads, repairs and construction of schools, bridges across. But they didn't. Of the 29 million allocated, only half of the inhabitants of the 30 - mile [30 km] zone have reached the area. Paradox, but residents of the surrounding villages pay as much for electricity as others. Who took the benefits from them? Who are the beneficiaries of these people? I don't think it's such a big mystery for law enforcement. But they are silent. Today, the population is being fully processed in terms of the need to build a third block. It's practically coming. Once again, without fulfilling his old promises, the authorities promise the golden mountains. I think the adoption of this law will give us an opportunity to control it in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u105	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Next Hennaday Rudenko and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u106	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Alexander Moroz, Chernobyl Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, we will be supporting this bill, but I would like once again to draw attention to the fact that we would like the government and parliament to return to the fate of those people who, at their own free will, were relocated from the Chernobyl area. I've already set an example in the Sokirian region of the Chernivian region, and many examples are all over Ukraine, that these people, for them few, the state has forgotten them a lot of things, what was promised not to compensate them, they've run out of land, because most of the population is built in rural, rural settlements. And there was land. Of course, it was necessary for them to be included in the crucifixion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u107	Gennady Rudenko. Drachewski is getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u108	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, realizing that the election is coming, it is unfortunate to say that the entire hall will become carriers of some communist ideology. We will not be able to make some islands of happiness against the overall backdrop of the disaster in Ukraine. So 50, 30, 20, 10, we provoke consumer use, the task of atoms to pay a normal wage that would be enough to pay for all housing services, we have a lot of problems, we have a lot of benefits. So again, I didn't want us to have any dead bills that we would then cancel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u109	Please, Drachewski, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, today we must be grateful to Deputy Bronnnikov, who himself knows how people live today in such disturbing places as nuclear power plants. And he himself was the director of this Zaporozhye station. I know that today those people who live near Zaporozhye Station: the Nicopolis, the Morgans, the Nicopolsky region. Tamakowka, they will carry it in their hands because all of our proposals have been translated into this bill. Let us support it today, let us give to those who live in such troubled places today the unfavourable places to feel the care of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-13-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful. Dear colleagues, no extra expenses from the state budget, this law does not provide for this. We're talking about the next one, today we're regenerating electricity. She's nowhere to go. And here's what we're proposing is that, at the expense of this nuclear power plant production, nuclear power plants don't go for the full cost, but for 50 percent of electricity, those who live in a 30-mile zone near those stations that we want or don't want to, they pose some kind of danger to their lives and health. Is that clear? I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. [[on compensation for the settlement of a 30-thicylmeter risk zone for the deployment of nuclear power plants]] Bill 8123. As a matter of fact. Vote. In the first? Let's do it first. In the first. Take a friendly vote. For -272. Copy that. There's no denying it as a law? There's a denial. The leading and directing faction denies it. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 52, Communists – 53, People's Party – 28, “Our Ukraine” – 12, Block of Timoshenko – 32, Socialists – 21, Ukrainian People's Party – 19, People's bloc of Lithuania – 20, Social Democrats – 13, People's Trust – 0, National Movement – 1, “One Ukraine” – 7, “Reforms and Order” – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 6, non-fractional – 8. [[United]] Dear colleagues, all the problems that have arisen today have been related to nuclear safety, so we have dealt with you in a different way. Therefore, we have reason to conclude the meetings of the Supreme Council. This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00. Good luck.
