ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:45]] They registered in the 405 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, your attention. In accordance with article 13 of the Act on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Drought of the Tatyana Volodymyrovna into the composition of the Party's MP. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Demjojina Vladimir Anatoliyovich from the MP group “Trust of the People”. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zaiczek Viktor Alexandrovich into the National Party faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry into force of the National Party. Dear colleagues, now information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on November 16, 2005. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: Seven laws were passed, including six laws on the ratification of treaties, one bill was passed on the basis of which five bills were rejected. Dear colleagues, now the announcement is another, information. Tomorrow during his visit to Ukraine, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev will appear in front of us at approximately 12 o’clock for 20 minutes. I'd like you, my fellow Members, to be present to hear what is being done in this country in the process of transformation, in the process of reforming the Republic of Kazakhstan. Dear colleagues, the question of the election of national deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, yesterday the committee considered a statement by Ukrainian National Deputy Kobec Olga Seminovna, member of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko, on the election of her as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Considering that the calculated quota was not fully used by this faction, particularly in the committee noted, the Rules Committee decided to support the statement made by the Kobec People’s Deputy. So you have a draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kobec as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u3	Honorary colleagues, the committee's proposal is to vote on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Ukraine's national deputy Kobec Olga Seminovna as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations. Registration number 8466. Please vote. [[10:07:28]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists – 0, “Regions of Ukraine” – 7, National Party – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 15, Block Timoshenko – 33, SPU – 11, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, SDPU(o) – 6, National Block – 19, “Trust of the People” – 2, “Reforms and Order” – 8, “One Ukraine” – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, non-fractional – 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the committee also considered a statement by the national deputy Pavličk Dmitr Vasilović, a member of the Ukrainian National Party's deputy faction on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs. Taking into account that the calculated quota for representation on this committee of the deputy faction is one and today none of the representatives of this faction, i.e. the quota is not used, our committee has decided to support the application of the national deputy of Ukraine Pavlicka and has made a draft decision for the Supreme Council to elect the national deputy of Ukraine Pavlič as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign matters. Please determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavličk Dmitry Vasilovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, registration number 8467, is being submitted to your consideration. Please vote. [[10:09:36]] For 209 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Rules considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovic, on today's non-fractional day, on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in matters of law enforcement and law enforcement. Given that the calculated quota for representation on Parliamentary Committees of Ukrainian National Deputies, which are not part of any parliamentary factions, is now only 1.6, and the committee currently has two non-fractional National Deputies, i.e. the quota used, our committee has decided not to support Ukraine's National Deputy Marchenka's application to elect him as a member of the Committee for Legislative Protection. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, a draft decision on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Marchenka Alexander Volodymirovich, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. Please vote. [[10:11:24]] For-136 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider now the inclusion in the agenda of the bill and the decision-making process. May I have your attention, please? I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] Registration numbers 8445, 8445-1. Please vote. I say again, about making changes to some of the laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] [[10:12:13]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please, by the factions. The Communists are 44, the Ukrainian People's Party is 16, the People's Party is 15, our Ukraine is 23, Block Timoshenko is 6, SPU is 18, Ukrainian People's Party is 21, SDPU (o)-1, National Block is 0, “Trust of the People” is 0, “Reforms and Order” is 10, “One Ukraine” is 4, National Movement of Ukraine is 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 0, non-fractional – 6. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, while preparing for work, with a motive of three minutes, please. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Alexeyev, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u10	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that now, as it were, this is an organizational situation. And so I would like to ask you once again to put this question to the vote, because even our faction, by initiating this question, has not been able to vote on some of our colleagues. I ask you once again to put to the vote this question of inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u11	Jaroslav Suhi, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u12	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please give the floor to my colleague, Stoyan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u13	Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u14	Dear citizens of Ukraine, first of all, I address you. What happened to the high wages of the Prime Minister. Mr. President, the government did this to the minister. It was Timoshenko's government that, in June, passed a decree setting out large salaries for itself, for the President and for the minister of 17 to 18 thousand, for the judges. So he bribed the exact category that. It's got to work. That's why we think this government did, especially Pinzenic, who says today that the MPs are guilty. Let the government take it. At the same time, I would like to say that the MPs did not set themselves up, and even Litwin signed only in September to pay deputies. And when the MPs saw that it was big, they decided to give it up. I ask you one more question for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u15	Yes, Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u16	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party Dear Head, dear colleagues, we have everything going on the other way around. Instead of fighting poverty and raising the level of underprivileged people to the level of secure people, we're trying to fight those or those wages that provide a sufficient standard of living. Peace be to the cabins, and war to the palaces. Instead of sorting out the salary, we have an eralash like this, the President himself sets someone up, the government sets itself up. It is necessary to adopt a wage law and determine the order and system of wage tariffs, taking into account labour legislation. It's not like every department is setting itself up. And, of course, the labels stick to the MPs, but they don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u17	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u18	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd like to say the first few words here to one of the speakers who made every effort to rob and rob the unions. And so, of course, he doesn't need a salary. So I'd like him to think and say what he thinks before he makes any conclusions, not what he's told to get on the list. Now, about this bill. I, of course, believe that the employee's salary should be tied to the minimum wage, but the bond should be clear, transparent and understandable, rather than talking about raising wages, remember that the Supreme Council has voted in favour of submitting deputies from the faction of the Regions a bill that has given the so-called "output benefit" to the militia. And the Bilocon is now receiving 300,000 of this output benefit. So let's just take all the bills that have been adopted here and are going to be adopted in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u19	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u20	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The honourable head, the esteemed colleagues, the issue of voting, is extremely sensitive. If we want to build a socially just society, we have to take into account the standard of living of our citizens, and the level of welfare of their pension, and the level of welfare of some government officials, some officials or others. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party stands in the position that we do not have the moral right to have a great imbalance between wage provision, the pensions of our citizens and the proper provision of those or other officials. We ask you to put the matter to the vote again and to vote positively. The Ukrainian people deserve to be treated in a fairer way than the right to Ukrainian power. The Ukrainian People’s Party is asking for another vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of your suggestions, we will now return to the matter. But I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, of an annotation to the draft law of the Science and Experimental Authority. I will quote: “In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision of 11 October 2005, the number of such any restrictions on the size of the pension, including by establishing its marginal size, does not correspond to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.” It's to your knowledge. I'll put it to a vote. I read it. Dear colleagues, the vote is coming. I am voting on the proposals that have just been put to the vote: on the return to the consideration of the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the limitation of the maximum amount of pensions. Registration number 8445, 8445-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:19:33]] For 226 Decision taken. Let's get to it. Dear colleagues, this is a rule proposed: reporters - up to 3 minutes, answers to questions - up to 3 minutes, for co-reports - up to 3 minutes, discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u22	Aah! Excuse me, Your Honor, excuse me. This is what we came back to, and now I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] Registration numbers are 8445, 8445-1. [[10:20:29]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Please calm down. The Communist faction – 56, “Ukraine” – 7, National Party – 11, “Our Ukraine” – 25, Block Timoshenko – 5, SPU – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 20, SDPU(o) – 19, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, come on. One minute! One minute! Listen. Come on. Well, can I? Let's maybe do it this way. One minute! We have the next project on the maximum amount of wage to which insurance premiums are due. Why don't we take a look? Peter Mikolaiovich, and then, if we have the will, we will return to our consideration. Well, I'll put it to the vote again. Who's to it? May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to the vote again. Calm down! Who wants to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws? [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] Registration numbers are 8445, 8445-1. It's not on! It's not on! [[10:22:15]] For 210 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. The factions, please. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 7, National Party – 15, “Our Ukraine” – 27, Block Timoshenko – 5, SPU-25, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, SDPU(o) – 18, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, Postfraction – 7. With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Please sign up. From the motive of three minutes, write it down. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u23	You son of a bitch. Please give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u24	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u25	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters! The Communist faction introduced a bill to limit the maximum size of the pension. We came out that according to a secret decree or an order that issued its time in the government of Yushchenko-Tymishenko, the government's wages today amount to 20,000 or more. Some judges receive up to 70,000 or more. And for these categories, the amount of pensions is set by the laws of 90 percent. So the average wage today is for a worker who creates material goods and gives bread to a table, he has a thousand bracelets, and those who today, let's say, are involved in corruption, crime, and so on, they get 90 percent of those wages. The Communist faction therefore insists on limiting the size of the pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u26	The mosquito, please, is a faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u27	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, may I give the floor to the fellow head of the Pehoti faction Volodymyr Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u28	Vladimir Julius Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, I want to ask voters to understand what's going on here, what's going on here. That some in the populis have already counted themselves as deputies of the next Supreme Council and are not making any calculations. I'd like to ask the authors: How much do the pensioners receive? How much will he receive today’s salary, and what will be the amount of special merit? How can it be done? There's no calculation, there's nothing, there's total government populism and there's total communist populism. Both think that they can fool the population and deceive us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u30	Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u31	It's a walkie-talkie.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u32	Oh, Ratchet, I'm sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies and radio listeners, first of all, note the cynicism with which the Party of Power "Our Ukraine" makes these calls for a vote. They're not saying that it's Yushchenka's government, they've stressed that, in midsummer, they've decided to raise this huge salary. In the same month that was paid to the deputies, we were all wiped out in the dirt. That's the first one. The other one. No one said a prayer midsummer from the Communists. So stop doing this populism. The judges receive over 50,000, the President's press secretary over 15,000, the district district administrators 15-25 thousand, the bankrupt water canals pay the managers 15-20 thousand. And don't do that populism, tell the truth. You're up! They're all wet!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u34	Yes, dear colleagues, I do. What? Come on. Let's make a statement. Yes, dear colleagues, please! So let's do this: let's do more consultations to get on. Well, that's how I put it. Let me put it to the vote again, so? What are you accusing me of? What are you accusing me of? [[B in m in s a l in]] What? I'll put it, let's put it this way: now. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Wait, let's make a decision, then there'll be a break. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's put it in this sequence right now. Each minute, I will put to the vote a return to the parliamentary, then to the government. Let's go back, put it in the agenda. Sit down, vote, please. When the question is concluded, then the application. According to the Rules, when the matter is considered, after consideration. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, we're about to finish, we're not done yet. Let's do it now. Sit down, boys, let's do it. I'm asking you, let's finish, then we'll take a break. Please. May I have your attention, please? Take your seats, we'll vote now. Please sit down, please. I'm going to announce it now. I'll call it in now. But we're not finished. Why, then, were we motivated? Dear colleagues, I've already studied the Rules, please. It'll be all right. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, let's do this now, then we'll keep working. I'm going to ask you now to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of each individual bill. If the Supreme Council is to be determined, then we will put the vote to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. If we make a decision, we'll consider it. Is there no objection? Otherwise, we're working on it. I'm voting on a motion to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8445. The authors are national deputies Simonenko and Cibenko. On amending certain laws of Ukraine to limit the maximum amount of pensions. Returning to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda. [[10:29:29]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communists are 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 10, the People's Party is 11, our Ukraine is 3, the Timoshenko Block is 5, the SPU is 22, the Ukrainian People's Party is 19, the SDPU is 11, the People's Block is 3, the People's Trust is 0, the Reforms and Orders are 15, the One Ukraine and the National Movement of Ukraine and the entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of Ukraine are zero, non-fractional – 7. May I have your attention, please? There is now a motion for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the government's daily draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Pension Insurance Laws. Registration number is 8445-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, wait, please. Well, we're on. on inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] . One minute! I'd like to make a statement. Calm down, please. [[10:30:47.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one minute. Communists – 3, “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, National Party – 14, “Our Ukraine” – 32, Block Timoshenko – 16, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 25, SDPU(o) – 2, National Block – 3, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 15, “Ukrainian One” – 1, National Movement of Ukraine –13, industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine – zero, non-fractional – 6. Three minutes of motive, please. And now you will. Three minutes of motive. Please, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u35	Please give Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u36	Peter Cibenko, please. Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u37	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please listen to me. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons If we have any respect for our internal documents, such as the Rules and the Constitution, I would like to say that. Yesterday the government introduced this document, which is sort of an alternative to our document, there's no scientific expertise. At 15 hours, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour and on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons did not have a document. Very little has been said by government officials that such a document will be introduced because they have been circulated in the Cabinet of Ministers, they are going to distribute today, and we are voting on this document. Then in the end, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Vladimir Julius Pehoti. Infantry, pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u40	Vladimir Julius Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u41	I want to be understood by those who listen to us and watch us on TV. We would like to see how much the pension will increase to those whom we are protecting today and those who say much about justice. We want to see that bill that no one has ever seen from the government. We want the Communist Party not to speculate on equality, on justice, but on literacy. What they've given is populism is mixed up in the fact that we have to go to elections with populism. That's why we can vote so naked and stupid and not think.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u42	Boris Bespali. No last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u44	Please don't look! Please. There's no faction, show me the rules, and I'll show you. Please calm down. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u45	Konovaluku. I already told you, Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u46	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. I am. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want there to be no speculation about this issue, and, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, on March 24, I passed an appropriate bill, with almost the maximum amount of pensions and annual assistance. And unfortunately, the scientific expertise came to a conclusion. Legal authorities have made it, but the committee of Cibenk, the National MP, has concluded that the committee should reject this bill as unacceptable. So today, in fact, there are some speculations about elections. I want to assure you that the government actually offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u48	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for conveying the word to Andrew Skull.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u50	Thank you, Sergei. I would like to point out that the bill proposed by the Communist faction, I agree with the previous speaker, actually. Confused in populism and suggestions. And the government bill, at least the draft that was being discussed was proposed by the finance minister, is what can be used here as a basis. At least, to start a discussion and in the process of discussion, I propose to stop by supporting the government bill to discuss and expose, and to express all my thoughts on what is written there, or not. Because, in fact, of course, we have to respect the Supreme Council and hand out drafts on time. But we have common practice when we base those bills that are passed out during the discussion itself. That's why we need to follow better laws. Although there are some problems in both the government and the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u51	Responsibilities to Article 3.8.2. Simonenko has the right to repeat. I looked at the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u52	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radios, some gentlemen, my colleagues, accuse us, the Communist faction, of populism. What is it? The Communist faction introduced a bill providing for the exclusion of pensions of 16,000 and more people's deputies, judges, prosecutors, militias and so on. We assume that the minimum pension today and practically a pension of 332 bracelets is paid by the 47 million people of Ukraine. On the grounds that those who do not produce today do not create material goods, the Supreme Council uses a mandate to trade, speculate, bribe and other benefits in 16 bracelets. Is it faction populism, 16,000. Is that faction populism? This is a clear position to protect the interests of whoever works in the field today, and those who say and do not vote today, respected voters, here is your answer to the question of who you should support in the next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u53	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules, two factions, the factions of the Ukrainian People's Party, four even factions, the Reforms and Order Party, the National Movement of Ukraine, our Ukraine. Who will be speaking with you? Dear colleagues, we need to consider further legislation. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Is there a need to gather faction leaders? You won't? Please make sure you decide what you want to take a break for. Well, they were yelling for a break. That's what they said was called for. A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u54	Who will be the initiators of the break, dear colleagues? Please, Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u55	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The position of the Ukrainian People's Party and the Reform and Order faction was and remains consistent in the issue of the establishment of the upper limit for the high-level pension. We voted like that, by the way, reminding my colleagues on the left, on the third of November, when we didn't vote on that question. And the chairman of the committee, arguing to the deputies why there was no need to vote, referred to the Constitutional Court's decision. Today we vote a hundred percent so that these restrictions are set. Because we believe that this is a decision that we, the national deputies, are committing an immoral act of social injustice. What happened was why did you, members of the Communist Party, not support the draft government decree? Just because your last names aren't there? Now it's clear that pensioners have made it clear to you that you're not defending the interests of the working people. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party, which has consistently stood in this position, has begun a collection of signatures for the President's address: setting a ceiling for senior pensioners. We've also introduced a bill to the Supreme Council, which is somehow not supported by a profiling committee, about what needs to be solved and what needs to be done: we need to introduce new tariff networks for the salaries of high-income workers, because it's unfair, because this is actually a retirement account. We believe that this bill should limit a certain amount of wages and wages for all employees. With all due respect to the generals of the police, prosecutors, in today’s situation, it is not possible to pay several tens of thousands of dollars when the vast majority of citizens receive ten times less. So we stay in this position consistently. We're going to be doing this signing assembly. For us, the establishment of a pension limit for seniors, the Ukrainian People's Party and the Reform and Order. It's not some sort of pre-election gesture, it's not some populism, it's for some people when they vote once, it's another time, and it's half-vote -- half-no. This is our principle of position, because for our parliamentary activities, we are primarily guided by the interests of the ordinary Ukrainian, the simple electorate, and we are confident that this assembly of signatures shows who really protects the interests, social interests of Ukrainian citizens. So I'm talking to our voters, and let's give an assessment to those political forces that care about you here, not about you, but about themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u56	Yes. Thank you. One minute! Wait, please. From two factions: the factions of the National Movement of Ukraine and “Our Ukraine” have a word for Jaroslav Kenzior. Then there's the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! The faction “Our Ukraine” and the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, first of all, the electorate, the radio audience, the TV audiences who are listening to today’s session and who are probably confused about what is going on in the session room. So we want to explain what's going on. I want to remind you that another 3 November of this year at last plenary meeting here, from this rostrum of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Victor Pinzenik, among other proposals for amending the 2005 budget, was making a proposal to limit the top level of pension insurance. I'm going to remind all of the radio audiences, our voters, that this proposal, the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal, won as many as 106 votes against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against it, against 293 national MPs. Who, then, fully supported the offer? Who are these 106 votes that are supposed to solve the problem of limiting the top level of pensions and pensions? It was the faction “Our Ukraine” – 30 votes; it was the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party – 24 votes; it was the faction “Reform and Order” – 12 votes; it was the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine – 14 votes; the Postfactional – 4 votes. Who, then, did not support this offer? First of all, those who want to go out again today and talk about how they protect and care for pensioners. The Communists of 55 deputies alone, Mr. Cibenko voted in favour, the Party of the 50 deputies on board showed 0 total, the Party of the Social Democrats of 20 deputies - 0, the Party “Go, Ukraine!” - 0, the Party “Trust of the People” of 11 deputies - 1, the Party of the Yulia Timoshenko Party of 37 supported only two, the Socialist Party of 25-14. [[United]] The word, honourable voters, you must understand today, there is a government project for today's agenda again, and there is a project of those who didn't vote at the time. And it's immoral. The Communists today resented being accused of populism. It's a very mild accusation, it's a higher form of pharisaism and wickedness, when they didn't vote and feel people's reaction, the voter response, they want to take the linen log and move forward again today. In short, we, the factions of the People's Movement of Ukraine and “Our Ukraine” are calling for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u58	Thank you. May I have your attention, please? According to article 3.8.2, Simonenko’s reply followed by the name Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u59	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! We just heard two of our colleagues. I just want to say one thing. What they were smoking in 1991 still did not flourish over Ukraine. That's a first. Second. The Government of Nazi and Socialists, which began its work in 2004-2005 with a sharp increase in wages. No independent Government has done so. And they immediately made their wages of 20,000. Thirdly, they have deceived and failed to do what they promised on Maidan, on Maidan. For them today it is advertising, perhaps so to speak, and for us it is the life of hundreds, tens of thousands, of millions of Ukrainian citizens with a pension of 332 bracelets. We therefore reiterate that the Communist faction will insist on this decision to limit pensions. And with respect to this law now. Vladimir Mihajlovich, one phrase, please don't limit your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u60	Thank you. Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to the radio audience. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Communist faction, Cibenko. If any of my colleagues knew how to read and read the documents that are being submitted, he would have found out much for himself. First, after that government bill that was voted on a few weeks ago. First of all, Mr. Pinzenik suggested that the pension payment should be suspended for up to two months -- November and December and December. That's the first one. The other one. He proposed to limit the amount of pension payments under the Law on General Compulsory Pension Insurance. Think about it! The average pension was 370-380, and he offered to limit it. But it takes 200 years to live and 180 to work in order for a person under this law to get closer to the limit! And by the way, this is where the Chernobyl people -- the people who went through nuclear hell -- were included.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u62	Please, two more rights on the line, Rabbit and Muhin, and we'll work. All of it! Well, respectable colleagues, well, no, no, no! All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u63	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear voters, honourable deputies, you are now convinced that there is a great deal of populism in this room, because the Ukrainian People's Party sees the limits of the pension ceiling as an act of justice in relation to those who receive today's 350-380 bracelets. So our goal is to raise the lower limit today and lower the upper limit. Between. And what I see today in the hall, when the Communist Party doesn't vote for a government law that almost repeats your law, it means that you only think about one thing, just one thing, how to put yourself before the electorate. And you should be thinking about how to solve the problems of our voters. Just like the Ukrainian People's Party does. We consistently vote for a pension limit, and there's a wage limit for high-income workers. Because today we can't look at the poverty that consumes our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u64	Mukhin. Microphone, Mujin, faction of the Socialist Party. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u65	Mujin, Socialist Party. Simonenko, you're wrong. If you look the truth in the eye, that's the situation. Who's the first to propose a salary increase? Timoshenko – Prime Minister. What's with the socialists? Before this scandal started that you're now jumping out of your pants, who first proposed a bill to limit wages? So it was Stepan's offer, by the way, and Boki's. Look closely. A month ago, the bill was introduced. So there's nothing going on here to grease the socialists. Ask Stepanov when he passed the bill. Even before the scandals started here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u66	Simonenko's last name was a replica. Don't call it a name, let's work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u67	That's what I said. Please, a line. But let's not call each other's names.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u68	I'm not going to answer the question that Mohin just asked. For one simple reason. That he is today among those who do not think about the people of Ukraine. Today, serving the regime is, in fact, established by nationalists in Ukraine and serves them. I would like to respond to previous colleagues. We read government law. Article 58 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster adds to the new sentence: “A fixed pension of an age with respect to the Ukrainian Act on Employment of the Population Before the Age of Retirement”, provided for in article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, does not pay the pensioners who are employed”. I mean, the Chernobyls. They will receive nothing, nor will they be paid. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u69	Yes, please. Dear colleagues, please, Muchin. I'm just asking you to be higher. A fly, a microphone, please. And let's keep working, or we will. Let's get to the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u70	I won't say anything bad, I won't name names. I simply urge everyone, both the left and the right, who do not vote, to actually vote for these salaries and pensions to be limited. And it's not just the MPs, it's all the officials. Well, have a conscience, after all. Therefore, I think the Communists will vote in favour and the socialists will vote in favour. What do you want me to do? What do you want me to do? What do you want me to do? That's the life.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the maximum amount of wages to which insurance contributions are due is under consideration. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Change the vote. Then please, dear colleagues, please listen! Once again, about the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill, registration number 8441, of amendments to certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the maximum wage on which insurance premiums are paid]] Please vote. [[11:25:13]] For 266 Decision taken. Offered. The factions, please. such rules of procedure. The Communist faction is 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 47, the People's Party is 32, our Ukraine is 3, the Timoshenko Block is 23, the SPU is 24, the Ukrainian People's Party is 20, the SDPU is 13, the People's Block is 19, the People's Trust is 0, the Reforms and Order is 13, the One Ukraine is 0, the National Movement of Ukraine is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is 3, the Non-Factional is 3. This is the order: within 3 minutes, for the report, for the answer to questions, within 3 minutes, for discussion and decision-making, 15 minutes. Please contact the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The two bills that stand next to the agenda today, 8445, which today do not vote in the agenda in the Chamber of Deputies today, and 8441 are connected things. In this case, what are we talking about? We're trying to get the orange authorities to do their electoral slogan, which was a year ago in Maidan Ukraine, about the rich sharing it with the poor. Since they do not want to share, we want to help them share the rich with the poor. What are we talking about? And that's what I'm talking about, and I've been talking about in this room, that there are different dimensions of social justice, and including today, a person who works in the workplace and gets 300, 400, 500 dollars for his hard work, pays contributions to the Pension Fund, as well as to other insurance funds from every single copy of his hard-earned salary, and those people who get enough high wages or get high income as entrepreneurs, not enough to pay just part of their salary, and seven of the average wage, and all of the other things that don't pay the contribution, let's say, to the Pension Fund. [[Now it's 4100.]] Provided that an entrepreneur receives income of 1 million dollars a year, he pays to the Pension Fund, to other insurance funds a premium of 4100, and the last one goes to the pocket. Where is social justice? I'm told that's how we draw the business out of the shadows. Sorry, let's go, let's go, and he's not coming out of there. So I propose that every citizen of Ukraine who works and pays contributions to the Pension Fund, like other insurance funds, contribute exactly from the full amount of wages and from the full income he receives. That would be fair, that would be fair, that would be the fulfillment of the pre-election promise of the oranges, which sounded like the rich would share with the poor. During the week, the minister of finance was here crying about low working pensions. That's the only way to increase employment pensions. There is little limit to the pensions of government officials, although this is to be done, but there is a need to increase the income of the Pension Fund and in this way: increase the size of the employment pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the interview. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please, George Boiko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u74	George Buiko conveys the word Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u75	They gave me the word. Dear Peter Stepanovich, I'm very brief. If, for example, there is an unemployed person on the street, they come and say, “Why do you have expensive bread in Ukraine? ” And he says, “Wait, what am I doing?” I want to say that, people in power today say to the Communists, "Why low pensions, why can't you make peace?" I want to answer to the whole of Ukraine: give us power! We set the order. We had 16 copies of bread. But I'm asking you a question. These laws, which are passed by the deputies in caring for the people, why does the government not issue them, why does he not care about these matters? This is his sacred duty. Please tell me, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Olga Petrovna, for your question, it is indeed most fitting. And I also thank you for letting me clear up the government's position a little bit. Here, on this stand, the minister of finance for a week shed crocodile tears about the small working pensions. When, in response to this proposal, I passed an appropriate bill, the government denies its acceptance. They say that there are some warnings about deductions from other insurance funds other than the Pension Fund, but that we can completely adjust in the process of preparing for second reading. I mean, it's just that the government is, excuse me, deceiving people when, on the one hand, they're crying about low wages, low pensions, and when we're offering deductions from the entire salary and in this way filling the pension fund's budget, they're talking about it being inappropriate, it's inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u77	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u78	The distinguished rapporteur, the faction of the Regions, as well as you, fully shares ideology. There can be no gap in pensions and wages between officials, deputies and the people are calculated dozens of times. But we understand very well that a deputy who doesn't live on the salary he receives from the Supreme Council lives on envelopes from someone and something. We must find a reasonable compromise. We must understand with you that if we do not now consider this law in the complex peacefully, not to report to the voters who voted, who did not vote, but to bring wages to the real people, pensions to the real people, but to keep the MP from looking at the oligarchs in the pocket. Most importantly, your draft law takes into account the entire legislative framework and is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u79	Thank you for. Thank you for your support. I would just like to say that there can be a really different goal to vote on, but by initiating this bill, I didn't want to report to anyone, and I wanted to help fill the Pension Fund budget, because there's no other way to increase the size of the employment pension given to about 11 million Ukrainian citizens. And the compromise might be: we accept in the first reading, we work out all possible and impossible compromises in the second reading process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us be tolerant of one another. Thank you. Peter Stepanovich, time is up, sit down. I, my dear colleagues, before I go to the discussion, would like to address you: you, after you've all performed, take the transcripts and read what you're saying. [[Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?]] If you're talking about envelopes, name a national MP who gets envelopes. We've already humiliated the Supreme Council so much, all of us, and let's continue to compete to see who does it better. Come on, give me a call. Let us talk normally about the things that are bothering Ukraine today that are making people happy. Let's not compete, please, just please! Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare the Levcun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that very much time has been spent. Forty questions we have planned today, Vladimir Mikhailovich. But because it's a politicized question they put first, today our entire schedule is just going to go down, and you understand that very well. And they were aware of that on the Conciliation Council. And those who raised their voices today were aware. Now, about the value of the bills and how they're passed. Bill 8445, which was shouted at by many, governmental, registered only yesterday. No committees went through, nothing. And you are raping us today. Be the first to vote. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you, I am addressing Adam Ivanovich. Let's not do that again. There is a rule, and it is also mandatory for you. What are you doing? You are now drowning: “let’s give it up for inclusion”. Let's just make a decision right now, cut everyone down, or retirees, or wages! This does not raise such serious questions. These are questions that need to be considered. To this issue, which has now been discussed, they have also been sold. Let's see, 4441 and what? Is that a basis? Mr. Cibenko, I respect you very much, well, it's not based on the same page on all the questions and with such information about the financial and economic. I quote: “The adoption of the project foresees an increase in the income of the Pension Fund and a corresponding reduction in the budget expenditure to cover the deficit of pension funds.” Ladies and gentlemen, we're running calculations around. Let's do it, this calculation. We'll say it's about how much, it's about how much. Let's also ask the government, let him give us a calculation of this project, let him show why he denies it, and here we see this point of view. And now. Dear friends, if we are to do things for people, let us remember two things. First. We had to ask the question that the amount of wages that was set, not by law, but by such decrees, by regulations, by secret acts that pay the pension today, could not be counted. That should have been written. This is one time. And the second. We need to raise that minimum pension to 332. Pick up, pick up, and find this mechanism. This bill by Zybenko is the first tiny step in raising it. And I will personally vote in favour of this bill. But I want all of us to make the right decisions and that this should unite the hall and unite the country, not bring about the disunity and nervousness that has arisen today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u82	Thank you. Yes. Vladimir Levtsun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare to be overtaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u83	Honorary colleagues, draft Law 8441 proposed by Deputy Cibenko proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine: on scientific and scientific and technical activities, on public service, on mandatory government pension insurance regarding the limitation on the maximum wage of seven average wages that were made in the previous calendar year. What does this limit look like in numbers? From 01 C.E. 071998 is a thousand dollars according to Cabinet Order No. 1064; of 01.03. In 2001, it was 1,600 dollars according to the relevant Kabminu decree; from 01.05. 2002 is 2,200 dollars according to the Cabinet decree of 11–2004; since 01.06.2003, this is 2660 dollars in the Cabinet decree of 20.04. In 2003 But at that time, a large number of citizens received a much higher salary. And this situation, in my opinion, has signs of discrimination against these people who have been paid lower than the marginal wage on which insurance contributions to the Pension Fund are due. In addition, the second favoured the abolition of the existing restriction: an increase in the substantial arrival of the Pension Fund. The third negative that exists in existing legislation is creating conditions for abuse and avoidance of payment of insurance contributions. The adoption of the proposed draft law will significantly increase the coming of the Pension Fund and this will create new opportunities to increase the minimum pension in the future and to date reduce the budget costs to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is primarily concerned about the problem of increasing minimum pensions and will certainly support all the bills that create the least possible solution. That's why we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u84	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u85	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Respectable colleagues, the bill, as motivated by its authors, propose that all who receive more than 4100 salaries be paid for higher contributions to the Pension Fund. There's one little nuance. I say this as the head of the pensioner subcommittee. In our legislation, the current pension is based solely on the amounts that are credited to the Pension Fund. So today, to say that we will increase our income to the Pension Fund is not reasonable, because by increasing our contributions, we are actually going to give the same money to those who pay the money. I mean, to say that someone else is going to win, except for those who pay. No one's gonna make it out of the pensioners. Now for the next moment. I'd like to say today, well, here we are. Of course, with culture being weak, we have to listen to others hard, thank you. Guys, I want to finish anyway. We have 13 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that regulate the wages of all courts of commerce and the Central Electoral Commission and the Court of Auditors and the Cabinet of Ministers and all others. So again, I would like to say as head of the pensioner subcommittee. If these 13 decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, were to be repealed by the same Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, then all that we spent two hours with you, because the salary depends on the amount of the pension. And so when Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, deep down to me, says that he has the wages of the current civil servants, and he doesn't have the pension, I think it's a little tricky, if not immoral, because that's what happens to me, the current minister, today's money is in the budget, and for all those who were before me, there's no money. I think it would be necessary to say in this case that there is no money on either pension or salary, and that would be fair for both this room and the country as a whole. Therefore, once again, as head of the pensioner subcommittee, I declare that these problems must be addressed with the primary cause. First, there is a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which must be repealed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. Anything that sounded two hours here in this room will allow me to assess it as a election campaign. Because it started and ended. Look who's up for who's up against who loves this country more. You have to be responsible for what's right. The Cabinet of Ministers should repeal the Cabinet's decree, which blew up public opinion. And that's the truth of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, voters. As I go on with the previous statement, I'd like to say that really, just to make sense, what we're going to do is we're going to do a higher amount of income on the Pension Fund, and then we're going to say that the pension fund is going to be bigger. In this case, it would have to be supported by this previous law on restrictions and pension payments. Then it'll all make sense. And if we just really limit the salary and not limit the pension, then that's not the point. I'd like to say from this, from this whole thing, that we have this right now, that we've done all the government, and it's all gone to the Supreme Council. And the perpetrators of all these events are, as always, deputies. Too bad there's no Pinzenic finance minister here. I'd like to ask him a question. Is it not clear to the Minister of Finance that if the government raised wages, what did they not know about the 90 - percent pension laws and so on? You need to know. And it's a bad practice to eliminate that we have the budget laws next year to suspend or eliminate some kind of law. It's an abnormal phenomenon. And that needs to be done. I would not like to mention today some others and MPs so that they really do not engage in populism, or journalists know who to approach. And as I'm looking at it, only Chernobyl and Volkov are on the screens when they're assessing what the level of wages is and whether national MPs need it. And Volkov says he's ashamed to look people in the eye. After that, I'm ashamed to look everyone else in the eye. I think everyone understands, I'm not going to decipher it anymore. Dear friends, I understand that this whole plot is directed against the Supreme Council and the National Deputies. You know, we're often told that when we meet, you pay yourself so much, you've given yourself these benefits. That's what I'm saying to all Ukrainian citizens, because this is where we can't solve the question, in the walls of the Supreme Council in this Supreme Council: let's support the Communists, let's make the Supreme Council that it was with the Communists, so that the MPs would work in places, get a salary there, and then no one would poke their eyes out that someone had set up a benefit. But to do so, we must expel those oligarchs from the Supreme Council who do not want to return such a Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u88	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, please, "Regions of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Party welcomes the operation with which our Communist faction colleagues have responded to the provocative statements made by the finance minister and are apologizing to the factions for perhaps unthinkable statements from our mouths about populism. I'm sorry. I ask everyone to pay attention to the damage to the construction of the government apparatus that has recently been causing its irresponsible, demagogic comments by the minister of finance. I'd like to ask the government, who is he? He's an official in the public service or a political leader who, by abuse of his position of service, is trying to win himself and his supporters a questionable political capitalist? What is the goal of the minister of finance by spreading rumours about the fantastically high pensions of military personnel, scientists, paramedics, civil servants, national deputies, and their assistants, to bring negative results to this category of people. Ladies and gentlemen, have we had any opposition between the regions since the presidential election? Do you want to get those remaining respect and legitimacy for the authorities? I think that this whole mess that started and was supported by the press was one thing -- to distract attention from the collapse of the basic sectors of the national economy from the incompetence and incompetence of today's government officials, from the fact that there are no real steps towards getting wages out of the shadows. Here. Let's fill the Pension Fund with the necessary funds. It's not true that we're filming someone's life, and it's like we're giving someone away, it's impossible to do that today. This includes the full implementation of pension reform. We can't do it because pension reform is halted. Two examples. We're going to pay for these funds -- three of them -- we're going to pay in multiples, we're going to pay in limited terms, and we're going to pay in full at the Pension Fund. That's 30 percent of the pay. We've just begun to order up in the fight against wage tonings. Is it not clear what this will lead to?Oh, my God! And one more thing. The rest of the insurance costs, the rest of the money that a person earns, can be invested in non-state insurance funds. Today, however, there is a great lack of confidence in government institutions. I want to tell the government. You're the one who wasted it, you're the one who screwed up. Take a shiver, clean it up, because after your words it stinks all over Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. Now, please, the position of the government, then the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Please note what this bill foresees. First of all, I just want to point out that world practice shows that, in order for wages to not be dented, there is a need to set a reasonable level of wage to pay social security contributions. And it shows that this ratio should be one to seven, which is what it's done in Ukraine. Please note that after implementing this mechanism in 2000, we got a positive result when about 20% of the workers who got paid and hid it started showing it. And we got extra income from all the social insurance funds. Will this bill increase the income of the Pension Fund? No, of course not. Because the salary will go dark and for another reason, it won't balance the pension fund. Because those who receive income today, wages, for example, some businessman gets a salary of 50,000 dollars, under the terms of this Law, he gets a pension at 40 years of age, he gets 20,000 pensions. This will result in us rebalancing the ratio of pensions paid. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that these contributions are not paid, mainly by employers, this is going to be a blow to the national economy. Because the employer will pay more than he pays today. I also ask you to note that there are no calculations under this bill, no funds foreseen in the draft budget. Please don't vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u92	I'd like an honorary representative of the government to present his positions, and the Supreme Council will decide whether to vote or not. Let's stick to ethics. Peter Cibenko, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u93	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Dear colleagues, I can't add anything to what the representative of the Government has said, because you've come to realize that the government is absolutely against the budget of the Pension Fund, which means against the increase in employment pensions. This is all yours. This is all yours. The second thing I was going to say. Dear colleagues, unfortunately there is no other mechanism for increasing employment pensions than for increasing the budget of the Pension Fund. Unfortunately, it's not. Now, with respect to shadow patterns. Dear colleagues, in Ukraine today, practically 1 out of every 3 working men wear either weapons or pursuits. People who have to do shadow economy don't do anything. Moreover, they themselves help to steal the economy of Ukraine, and today I am being reproached as the author of the bill. Dear colleagues, I urge you, let's take a step to meet our citizens, 11 million citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, I would just like to say one thing that we are apparently witnesses today and to some extent participants in the conflict that has been provoked today. And the practice of finding enemies continues. In the past, our neighbors were advertised by enemies, and today we are looking for enemies in the middle of the country. Who won that? I think it's hard to answer today, and clearly we can say that today, Ukraine loses, loses in the sense that we are generously sowing despair in everything and everything. So I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, in view of the discussion that has taken place, to move on to making a decision. There is a proposal for a draft law, registration number 8441, to amend certain laws of Ukraine as a basis for voting. [[on the maximum wage on which insurance premiums are paid]] Please vote, please vote. [[11:54:45]] For-170. The decision is not taken. By factions, please, by factions. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 2, National Party – 17, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Block Timoshenko – 22, SPU – 23, Ukrainian People's Party – 14, SDPU(O) – 4, National Block – 19, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 1, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – Zero, “Afterfractional” – 10. I put it to a vote: on re-reading the draft Law registration number 8441, on re-reading the first reading. Please vote. I'd like to re-vote, please. [[11:55:42]] For 155 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 1, the People's Party 14, our Ukraine 1, Block Timoshenko 21, SPU 24, the Ukrainian People's Party 8, SDPU(o)-4, National Block 17, People's Trust, Reforms and Orders, Ukraine, the National Movement of Ukraine, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - Zero, Postfactional - 10. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Well, what about? For what reasons? The motives are recorded, three minutes. Three minutes, Your Honor, please. Three minutes, please sign in. Alexander Masenko. Then Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u96	Peter Cibenko, please. Oh, Peter Simonenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u97	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radio listeners! It is difficult for us here, the factions of the Communists, to convince the Presidential, ruling majority of the deputies in the Supreme Council about the state of Ukraine, how the people are begging today, how the people are living today, how they are now trading children and continuing to trade children, the people of Ukraine! And in this situation, those who are rich on the human mountain today do not want to regain justice in terms of retirement and the payment of a full - income pension. So those who get millions don't want to pay millions to the Pension Fund. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you once again, and I ask you again: let's go back to 8445 to limit the retirement of those who are undeservedly receiving them very large today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u98	Yes, please. Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u99	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u100	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u101	Jaroslav Suchy, town of Zaporozhye, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. I was surprised and delighted to hear Deputy Minister of Finance Vladimir Makarovich speak. I didn't know there were normal people in the Ministry of Finance, except Pinzenik. I think it's time to talk about the resignation of the Minister of Finance. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I am making an offer in order not to tear down the hall so as not to disturb the society before the parliamentary elections, and our people are still going to face enormous tests of imposing a moratorium on a similar kind of bill by March 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u102	Mikola Odinenik, please, “Our Ukraine” faction
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u105	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear friends, it is clear to all that the problem exists. But it is also clear that it cannot be suppressed. So we stand for, along with Nicholas Odynik, a slightly different concept of this law. It needs to be changed a little bit. We need consensus, we need to look for consensus with the government, we are doomed with that government to live what we have. And this government is doomed to live with this Parliament. And he must also understand and not dictate the will of Parliament. So we have to anticipate mechanisms to make sure that all payments are removed. But then there will be safeguards to prevent the pension fund from being destroyed, which next year, God forbid, but may have a deficit of about 20 billion. And I say to the Communists: “Don’t block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u106	I'm asking you, let's take a break from the Conciliation Council, let's work it out. Please don't block, let's work. And that's how you block it every time. Let's work at last. Please. Peter Stepanovich, I've put the vote many times, and I can't take it anymore. Where do you put it? Peter Stepanovich, please. I've put how many times, you'll insist, I'll put it again, just give me your word that you won't block again if you don't vote. Tell me you won't block anymore. How much can you do? Let's work at last. Dear National Deputies! We agreed now, please note that I will once again put to the vote the question of reintroduction into the agenda, one minute, of draft laws amending certain laws of Ukraine, so that the Supreme Council will be last determined, and then we will continue our work if it is not included. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] May I have your attention, please? I'm putting it to a vote. I'd like to ask you who would like to go back to the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, Registration Nos. 8445, 8445-1. [[concerning the maximum pension limit]] Please identify yourself. [[12:02:30]] For 193 The decision is not taken. It's being announced. The factions? Please. Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, National Party - 13, "Our Ukraine" - 27, Block Timoshenko - 11, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, SDPU (o) - 5, National Block - 3, "Trust of the People" - 1, "Reforms and Order" - 7, "One Ukraine" - 0, National Movement of Ukraine - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, non-fractional - 8. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a deal with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u107	All right, everybody, let's go! It's gonna be a break! May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? We agreed with you, and it was decided by a virtually unanimous consensus council that we would make such a decision today, that it was a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to promote the exercise of electoral rights by citizens, to ensure freedom of political debate, to ensure the unbiased treatment of the media to candidates for the electoral process. [[blocks]] We agreed that we would include this issue in the agenda, and then the chairman of the committee, Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko, who headed the working group that worked on the project, would inform about the major changes. After that, we will adopt it immediately as a law, and we will not discuss it, since everyone is familiar with it. I'm voting on the inclusion of this project in the agenda. [[Registration number 8313-4]] Please vote. [[12:04:24]] For 380 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, given that we know this project, perhaps we should accept it, because now we're going to have a debate. Sergey Makarovich, don't you insist? I am voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislative acts to promote the exercise of electoral rights by citizens, to ensure freedom of political debate, to ensure the unbiased treatment of the media to candidates in the electoral process. [[blocks]] Registration number 8313-4. Please vote. [[12:05:18]] For 396 The law is passed. I put it on the ground as a whole. It's the law. I voted on the basis of the proposal as a whole. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we still need it, and we've agreed to put it into the agenda and adopt a draft regulation to ensure the unhindered activity of the media during the pre-election period of 2006. Registration number 8254. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:06:06]] For 341 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this draft decree consists of two positions. I'll read them. First. Invite the Cabinet of Ministers to take steps to stop checks by appropriate executive and state authorities, media outlets from December 1, 2005, at the time of the election campaign for the election of Ukraine’s national deputies, as well as the election of local councils, rural, rural and urban councils. The other one. Recommend that the National Tax Administration of Ukraine cancel the media test schedules for the run-up campaign for the election of Ukrainian National Deputies, as well as the election of local councils, rural, rural and urban councils in 2006. I'm voting on approval of the draft ruling as a ruling. Registration number 8254. Please vote. [[12:07:14]] For 391 Decision taken. That would be the same for us in other matters. Dear colleagues, two factions -- a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united and a faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” asking for a recess or a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, let's work, we've wasted a lot of time, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u109	A statement by the faction of the Social Democratic Party regarding the round table on language rights for citizens. [[united]] During television meetings with students on November 11, President Viktor Yushchenko made a number of statements about language problems in Ukraine. He called the choice of the language of communication a fundamental human right, stated the State’s intention to take a careful look at the position of the eastern regions and promised that the authorities would not close or translate Russian - speaking schools and higher educational institutions into Ukrainian. The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine systematically and consistently protects the language rights of citizens, particularly Russian-speaking citizens, who make up a large part of the population of Ukraine. [[united]] That is why we welcome the President's statements and urge him to confirm these statements with real action. We have repeatedly called the attention of society to the discriminatory steps taken by today’s authorities in relation to Russian - speaking citizens. One recent example may be the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, which aims to maximize the compression of the Russian language from the air, including mandatory duplication of films and broadcasts in Ukrainian. A bill has been tabled by the Presidential authorities for consideration by the Supreme Council, which strengthens this provision by law. The same is true of the suppression of the language rights of citizens in recently adopted Ukrainian judicial codes and the attempt to reorient language legislation to the task of exclusively using Ukrainian and printing Russian in all public spheres. We believe that in Ukraine there has long been a need for the development of general principles of language policy and the adoption of laws to ensure that regional or minority languages can function and the rights of their bearers. We insist that such important problems for society should be discussed with society and resolved in close cooperation with it. It is in the form of a constructive, kind and nonpolitical dialogue that these problems can be solved in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the international obligations of European democratic values. Therefore, SDPU(o) supports the initiative of Russian Culture Associations in Ukraine and advocates the holding of the “round table” in the near future with a view to developing a plan to react quickly to the problems of ensuring the language rights of citizens. We have thought-out and prepared suggestions on these issues. We believe that the round table should be held with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council and the leaders of the parliamentary factions. It is time for all political forces to express their position openly on the issue of language. Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is calling for everyone to eventually put an end to conversations about Russian and move on to concrete action. [[united]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u110	Dear national deputies, there is such an offer. Given that we've already taken breaks, that we've spent a lot of time, now that we've continued our work, we have a lot of decisions to make. No objections? Thank you. A draft Order on Arrangements for Organizing the Activities of Temporary Special and Temporary Investigation Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. The rapporteur is Vasil Gavriluk, the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. Valentin Grigorovich, what are we going to do? Why don't we put this motion to a vote? A bill is being put to the vote by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on measures to organize the activities of temporary workers – please pay attention, Your Honor! - temporary special and temporary investigation committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've been discussing this. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Yes, there's a vote coming. 8416. Please vote as a general rule. Please. Please vote. [[12:12:10]] For 277 Decision taken. A draft Government Day Regulation is being announced in December 2005 and January 2006. Baeur Mikola Yosifovich. Is Mikhail Josefovich there? So let's see, what are the days of the government here in December? We have December 12th, yes. So let's put it off. One minute. I will now ask Adam Ivanovich here to find out by date. Now, let's go to the draft Ordinance on 14 February 2006 on parliamentary hearings on the current problems of irrigation and submerging the southern regions of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we discussed the problem. For what? For what? [[From the hall.]] [[do not hear]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u111	Now, dear colleagues, the 15th? Clarification: 15th. Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski. Catherine Semenovna, very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, please, there was a mistake: On February 15th, he proposes to hold a parliamentary hearing. You know that the problem of irrigation and submergment is relevant and has arisen thanks to the unthinkable short-term reform of the agribusiness complex. And the tragedy was not only that the peasants practically remained lawless, without anything from the land, the greatest wealth in our country, but also that, for example, the Water Farm had 32 thousand and a half units of technology, and now it's just 8,000 and that's it. And the last one went to Turkey like a colored metal. There was an accident in the fight last night. If we do not intervene now, the consequences will not be predictable. The Kakhov irrigation system, itself powerful in Europe, the design of the human mind and hands, not only works in the Herson region, but also in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zaporez region. The water-melioration complex is worth 20 billion, but 50% of it's government budget, and the rest is colgasys and raspberries that are not there today. The result is that someone uses irrigation as an assignment, and someone rips the pipes out, sells them. And especially here was the tax office, the D.A.'s office, the police. Taxpayers took the pipes and used themselves to turn irrigated land into a desert. Well, indeed, modern barbarians. There is, as we know, a state programme called The Development of Meliorization, but money is allocated only for exploitation. With regard to the reconstruction of the irrigation system, renewal, only one percent of the planned funds are allocated by this State Program “The Development of Meliorization”. Think about it. One percent. This is due to the problem of submerging and submerging. It's a technological disaster. In just one Herson area, nearly 250 settlements are submerged, with 100,000 inhabitants. The total loss here is almost 8 million dollars. But this was an example, just one example of an area. This is true of other areas operating in the Kahov irrigation system. And so the question is really urgent, it needs to be addressed and connected, and the problem of implementing a government program that unfortunately has zero value for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u113	written by Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko. From the committee. No, no, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has carefully considered the proposal made by the Ukrainian national deputies. We believe that, indeed, the reforms that have been undertaken over the past 14 years have caused much damage to our agricultural sector, including agriculture. One component of this damage is the practical destruction of irrigation. This is, well, an extraordinary tragedy for Ukraine, especially since irrigation systems have been destroyed, there has been significant flooding, especially in the southern regions of our country. The Committee supports the initiative and invites the Supreme Council to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u115	Please, Environmental Committee, Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u116	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Environmental Policy supports the holding of such parliamentary hearings, from the question of irrigation and submerging the southern regions of Ukraine. I remind you that we in the Supreme Council have already had days of government and had a decision in which we recommended that the government take a number of measures. We understand this problem well. On the one hand, we're submerging the land, which means that the land is being removed from circulation, it's going to go bad; on the other hand, we have big problems in the very settlements where so many homes are being submerged, and people have a big problem. And this problem is not just in the south -- it's also in the north. That is why we are asking questions today on the plane of land regeneration. I mean, on the one hand, we have to ensure that the land is built naturally, and on the other hand, we have to put the system in order in those irrigation and drying systems that are already neglected, which are now out of order. So I think it would be good if we focus on the South of Ukraine today. So there are very real problems in very large areas. And solving these problems will open the door for us to solve these problems in the North of Ukraine in Polissa. That is why the Ukrainian People’s Party and our committee today support such parliamentary hearings. But I would like us to prepare them very well so that we can financially provide the programs that will be planned. So that we can hear a real picture from the places, not just populism. So I speak for making this decision and listening to it, preparing it in the best way possible. So we're going to propose a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful. Dear colleagues! Catherine Semenovna, don't argue with John Alexanderovich, he'll back you up. Dear colleagues, during discussions and discussions, made some adjustments in the name of parliamentary hearings. Listen, please. I am voting on the adoption of the decree as a whole, the registration number is 8164, the authors of the National MPs, Samylik and Orzhachowski, to hold parliamentary hearings on the current problems of irrigation, submersion and floods on 15 February 2006, without indicating which regions this applies to the whole of Ukraine. Please vote. Vote. [[12:21:18]] For 280 It's been decided. Again, I remind you that the word “and floods” has been added here and the word “which regions” has been taken out and applies to all Ukraine. Yes. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning intelligence agencies is under consideration. Registration number is 8428. Reported by the Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, Malomaž Mikola Grigorovitch. Please prepare Kruczyk's Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is a complete draft of the bills that were submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2004 but were announced by reference to paragraph 5 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is designed to take into account the proposals and observations that have been made in the process of their consideration of previous options to the members of the National Security and Defence Committees of the Supreme Council, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council and worked by a working group composed of representatives of the intelligence bodies and the National Security and Defence Council. The purpose of the bill is to legitimize the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, created by the President's decree on the basis of the Ukrainian Security Service's intelligence bodies as a state-owned body. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian law on intelligence is envisaged: to identify the External Intelligence Service as an investigative body that inherits the powers of the former Ukrainian intelligence service; to identify the location of the service in the national security system of Ukraine and the counter-terrorism and organized crime subsystem; to identify the service as an operational and investigative entity by law; to amend a number of laws related to the creation of a service; and to improve the legislative provision of intelligence agencies to address the shortcomings of their practical activities. This is primarily the case with the following rules: the definition in a new edition of basic concepts, such as intelligence and intelligence, that will distinguish these categories from other activities and information, is more designed to organize the activities of intelligence agencies. The expansion of the consumer intelligence community, which is limited to only three senior officials in the current Ukrainian Intelligence Authority Act, will allow for the speeding up of intelligence to the final consumer, increase the efficiency of its use, more purposefully organize intelligence activities taking into account the needs of the relevant public authorities, improve standards on tasks and powers of the intelligence authorities, conduct of the service. Human resources, their legal protection. Taking into account the comments that have come, we propose to support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u119	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Please, three minutes. Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u120	Dear Rapporteur, we are now trying to reform the law enforcement agencies and, above all, to avoid duplication in the functions of these bodies. But in your bills here, on my side, you try to have the functions of the Ukrainian Security Service. In particular, these intelligence activities are carried out with respect to Ukrainian citizens in the territory of Ukraine. Do you think you should do this in the holy world with such a thing? Is there a B.P.A. that doesn't handle them or is there some other problem here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u121	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that the External Intelligence Service, according to legislation, is the first question, the intelligence agencies of Ukraine are targeting abroad. So it only does external functions. And the quick-search activity that perhaps involves working with various Ukrainian citizens is only taking place in the part where Ukrainian citizens take part in foreign political activities. And intelligence can only use their capabilities to provide for Ukraine's external interests, not the internal ones. This is provided for by the Ukrainian Intelligence Act and by legislation on the External Intelligence Service that we provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u122	Yes, please, Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u123	Dear Mikolo Grigorovich, the removal of the units of external intelligence from the law enforcement agencies is of political importance as an important step towards the realization of the principles of the rule of law of democracy. But please tell me, what functions will be placed on the regional intelligence unit in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u124	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to point out that the bill foresees the possibility of creating regional units. It's not supposed to be in every area, like the BSC or the militia created by the regional unit, it's predicted that the unit is at the site of regional surveillance to do more effectively overseas divorces. For example, he is in Crimea, where there are some appropriate external threats that are more active in this activity. For example, radio surveillance, which is located in Ukraine, is conducted only abroad. So we predict that these organs may not be systematic in every area, but only in places where they really need to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u125	Please, Chicken Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u126	Dear Mikolo Grigorovovich, it is wonderful that the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service has finally received its own law enforcement bill. And that's all we're saying. I want to ask you, how much is the demand for the results of the research work that has been done in the Ukrainian authorities for one year? And how much power does this work require of you? And other things. One of the points of number three is the law. I believe that it is necessary to separate the activities of the intelligence agencies of the Department of Defense Intelligence so that the external intelligence service does not carry out special military intelligence work. I mean, and that's not what this distinction was. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u127	Thank you so much for asking. I want to say that over the course of the annual period, I've just shown that progressive intelligence is increasingly needed by the leadership of the state and is taken into account in the decision-making process. In addition, critical programs for the state in the area of economics, in the area of defence, in scientific and technical intelligence, in the area of military and technical cooperation, in political relations with each day, are increasingly needed. And we feel that it's being used by the first people of the state, as well as by other consumers. These are ministries, departments and our representatives of the defence and industrial complex. As for the separation with the work of the Chief Military Intelligence Directorate, I find this to be a good observation. We're counting it. It already exists in the law. In line with the concept of “military”, I think it can be accepted that it may belong to the competence of military intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u128	Thank you, Milo Grigorovitch, please sit down. Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Head of the Defence and National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. What is the point of the problem that we are now considering? Finally, weak to God, there is legalization of a service that has been established, not by law, but by decrees of the President, and in such a quality, this service has existed for more than a year. The constitutional requirement for the approval by the Supreme Council of the structure of this service, which is in fact a military structure, is being fulfilled. The service was established on the basis of the relevant Department of Security of Ukraine. It was cut in the flesh. And so a number of issues need to be reconciled between the Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, the Department of Defense's Chief Intelligence Authority, and the foreign intelligence agency. Unfortunately, this was not done in the presidential structures, as the committee’s consideration showed. And this problem has been reversed to the Supreme Council. We believe that such a practice is wrong for the committee to deal with these issues, which should be agreed with the governing body by the legislative initiative. So the committee proposes to adopt the law in the first reading, so that the second reading of these issues will be dealt with and more consistent with the basic law on exploration that was adopted in 2001. Individually on the number of services. The Presidential Project proposes that the number of services be confirmed by a closed law, closed by article five. We have considered this issue in every way. Against a closed law, a closed law was expressed by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Institute of Legislation at the Supreme Council. Their comments merit our attention. It should be said that the Protection of Information Act, adopted in 1994, is not in line with the 1996 Constitution, which does not provide for the adoption of closed laws. Then what's closing? According to the law that was passed with regard to State security agencies, organs that provide national security. And it was just about closing the data on the workers doing the search and search. No, it's not. This law is not deciphered. So we propose to adopt a separate law number that exists now and to enact such a law. It's an open law. As for the next law that we're going to be considering right now, and what I'm going to say is that we're going to have to make changes more than before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u130	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u131	before we adopt the Foreign Intelligence Act. I mean, what's the point? First. Adopt the Ukrainian Security Service Act, the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service, the Law on Amendments to Legislative Acts in this regard, and adopt today the Law on the Numbering of the External Intelligence Service so that we can work on the budget. In conclusion, I wanted to say the following. The issue of reform of this system was raised. Indeed, reform is under way. An external intelligence service has now been established on the basis of the Ukrainian Security Service. There is a presidential decree that has just been issued on November 7, establishing the Ukrainian Special Liaison and Information Protection Service as the central authority of the executive branch with special status. All of this will have to be considered. And as for the IMF. As we can see, the Security Service is scattered, and with regard to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is suggested that it be transformed essentially into a Beroean - type supermonster. The Beroean times. To include border guards, including the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and others. This is very disturbing, and we need to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have learned from the report especially from the head report. Wait, please! Dear colleagues, have patience to listen to what you are offered, and then you will demand what you want. Because when the chairman makes proposals, you demand and do not know. You don't know what the chairman wants, and the chairman won't hear what you want. Let's listen to each other and everything will be fine. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that we have now now, as we discuss the first law, a law amending certain laws in connection with the creation of an external intelligence service, smoothly moved to the second law, the law on the outside, the service of external intelligence. So I propose that we now discuss these two laws together, because they are interconnected and we will immediately vote on each other. Yes, please show me. Sit down, Georgi Korniyovich. Shall we discuss it? Let's see, please show me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u133	So, dear colleagues, let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to discuss two bills. Yuri Carmazin, please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally begun to consider these laws. Because since October 14, 2004, more than a year is illegal, in fact, there is a structure. Because the President's decree says we can't do that, we have to make fuses in the state so that no President can issue such orders. And if I gave them to be automatically compared to macularity. Because they seem to be in violation of the Constitution. The removal of the units of external intelligence from the law enforcement body, in my opinion, has political significance as an important step towards the implementation of the principles of the rule of law, the democratic state. On the one hand, the law - enforcement agency is exempt from one of its insurmountable functions. On the other hand, safeguards are being created against the use of external intelligence for purposes not foreseen by Ukraine's laws. And we saw how it was during the Kuchma rule, when this unit, including it was mainly used to fight the opponents of the regime and in us, and abroad, this testimony of General Kravchenk and those telegrams that we then considered on the committees, and that is that the unit that was involved in the interrogation was also used for listening, including politicians, including us, the national MPs. There was even a list of 185 people who had to listen and regularly inform. I think that this project needs to be accepted and what's being suggested is that we define a general structure, taking into account the fundamental problems that we trust, I think we need to support this. As far as the secret article is concerned, the point I want to send you to the State Secret Act is the first. And secondly, I want to remind you that for so many years after the adoption of the Constitution, we have adopted and adopted secret articles in the budget law. Have you forgotten? Come on, come on, come on, come on, Then why are we having a double morale? The Americans are only publishing the numbers of the management body, the central intelligence apparatus, and we're going to open it up. In front of whom? Why? Why would you do that? Let's figure out, let's write, in an existing number. All right, let's do it. Existing numbers. What's the current number? Anyone who needs to know is in the state. We're not talking about increasing it. All of it. Or we'll take the secret, once again, we've passed the laws in secret, and we're always predicting these issues in the budget. I think it's very right that we're doing the definition of intelligence, intelligence that distinguishes them from other activities and that doesn't make it wrong to listen to citizens, and this, I'm going to vote in favour of both of these laws, and I'm going to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u135	Thank you. Yes, Michael Gladys, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Michael Glady, please. Michael Glady, please. Yes, Leonid Chernowitz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, those who listen to us, I believe that the law on “external” intelligence is, in principle, correct. Except for some reasons I can't vote for him. Well, first of all, I want to tell you that without defining the exact functions of this body, without you and I being able to analyze how they will work, so that corruption will not spread to them, as in other authorities, especially in the local authorities, we cannot issue this organ at all. [[This is the case with radio listeners.]] Because he's going to turn from external intelligence to internal intelligence, and he's going to start following decent people's deputies and others who are going to speak the truth. I am now working with General Kravchenko, who has cancelled surveillance of the former President of Ukraine, and today has been expelled from the bodies of the KGB or the new bodies, the BSS. So that's the problem, of course. And we're not supposed to release gin out of a bottle, because what these organs become, no one knows. The main problem that Ukrainian citizens should know is that, until all local authorities, starting with the heads of the district, the heads of various hospitals, all medical institutions, including judges, and local deputies, are elected, we will not solve the problem of corruption. Ukraine is a corrupt country and, of course, creating new bodies under such conditions is actually an attack on human rights. And this is a very big problem and a very big responsibility for those who will vote for it. But, of course, the law is noble. We will need it when we become a country with elected local authorities, when each station will be elected and can be revoked, and the hospital chief, who for money, the bastard, treats our voters, will call back, may be called off from his post, then we can begin to form such an important body. Otherwise, they will betray our secrets, which are that, especially local authorities, are corrupt and are not people's, in fact, representatives are a problem, and all sorts of other things. And with such a miserable salary, they will only work for foreign intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u137	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. You don't? Alexander Masenko, please. He's out. George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u138	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! These bills are narrowly specialized and require a professional approach, including discussion. The approach when everyone talks about everything here shouldn't work. First. Is it necessary to divide the Ukrainian Security Service, in fact, as a special law enforcement body of Ukraine that is also engaged in both counter-intelligence and law enforcement activities from its inequitable functions related to the conduct of Ukraine’s external intelligence? I think this question is rhetorical. And this separation does not have any political coloring at all. It's logical, it's the right scientifically based question. The intelligence authorities and special police authorities should be under one roof, as was the case in the system of the former Soviet KGB, because such structures belong to regimes that carry totalitarian signs. The other one. Should the External Intelligence Service be a military force? Maybe you should. But then we rely on the constitutional problem that the overall structure of numbers, including military formations, should be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's why there's a coalition that we have the operational number of the External Intelligence Service to keep a secret, but at the same time we have to fulfill the norm, the requirement of the Constitution that the Supreme Council should approve the overall structure, the number of Ukraine. Therefore, we need to think carefully about the Constitution, and there are no problems with the publication of the totality of the External Intelligence Service. Next problem. What functions should the External Intelligence Service perform? As I read the draft Foreign Intelligence Act, I can see that she's trying to add some signs of counter-intelligence. Nor should this be appropriate for the Ukrainian intelligence body. Next. It's about a name. If there's an External Intelligence Service, it's called analogous to the Internal Intelligence Service. We too need to think carefully about this matter. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the ideology of separating the intelligence agency from the Ukrainian Security Service and creating a separate intelligence body. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party says that the proposed bills should be adopted in the first reading and that the laws currently in place should be substantially revised, on operational and exploration activities, on counter-investigative activities, probably on Ukrainian intelligence agencies, but on the basis that the Ukrainian Intelligence Act should be fundamental to the activities of the Ukrainian intelligence community. Thank you for your attention. Please accept the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u139	Thank you. Sergey Žizko, "Our Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u140	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, the adoption of this bill is due to the need to legitimize the External Intelligence Service, which has been in existence for over a year as a single special state authority outside the legal field of the state. The exit of the External Intelligence Service from the HQF was a perfectly legitimate step in keeping with democratic traditions. At the same time, there is an urgent need to determine its status, legal principles of activity, tasks and functions, structure and composition, financial conditions, and social welfare. The draft law essentially defines the positions indicated. The bill does not eliminate a number of shortcomings listed in the findings of the National Security and Defence Committee and in the conclusions of the Supreme Council Scientific and Scientific Administration. In particular, a list of tasks that rely on the External Intelligence Service, article three of the bill, shows that there is no proper separation of duties between the External Intelligence Service and the Ministry of Defense Intelligence’s Chief Intelligence Directorate, that is, the conduct of intelligence in the military intelligence sector. Clearly, the actual number of the External Intelligence Service should be determined according to the tasks assigned to it. In turn, the task of the External Intelligence Service should be determined according to the need for information received by its consumers, namely the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council and other officials. And the degree of need for this information is not predetermined. Therefore, there is reason to believe that some of the information collected by the External Intelligence Service would prove unnecessary. So the work is going to be done, as it were, in idleness. Hence, taxpayers ’ expenses will be spent merely on the formation of archival materials. Avoiding such a situation requires proper clarity in state, functional, and task definitions. And appropriate control over the use of budget funds. The current legislation provides for the uniformity of social protection standards for workers in the force structure. The bill, article nine, sets out separate positions regarding social protection standards for fellow foreign intelligence workers who provide them with certain preferences compared to their colleagues from other intelligence agencies. And when the law is being redrafted, it needs to be settled. At the same time, the adoption of this bill is also necessary in view of the need to provide funding for the External Intelligence Service next year. So I think Bill 8347 can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u141	Tkalenko, please, the National Movement of Ukraine. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u142	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear colleagues, the bill that we are considering is a powerful example of when very often in our country we are creating some structural executive body that works for a time outside the legislative field of activity. Obviously, this is not quite right. I mean, if we're a respected and serious state, first we need to work on the legislative field, and then we need to make decisions about creating some kind of enforcement unit. Creating an external intelligence service is certainly a perhaps progressive step, but it is to some extent thoughtless, as I said, and I agree with those colleagues who speak of certain problems that may be created by this law. In general, by supporting such a creation, I would like to point out the shortcomings that are already evident in this bill. In particular, the Law on Counterintelligence in Article 8 proposes, in fact, duplication of the counterintelligence functions of the External Intelligence Service with the Ukrainian Security Service. We already have so many structures that duplicate functions today, as a result of both the issue of overcoming corruption and the abuse in different areas, we don't get out of place. So I think it's worth adopting this law in the first reading, but it's very serious to work with experts, specialists and all the committees of interest in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u143	Yes, please, that's where Glady is passing on. Gregory Omelchenko with motive, please, and we will determine. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u144	Gregory Omelchenko, the constituency of Julia Timoshenko Dear colleagues, two very serious and responsible laws. About the need for a separate state intelligence institution, I don't think it raises any doubt. That's the first one. The other one. But in furthering these laws in second reading, we have to write down laws so that external intelligence is not used as an internal intelligence, either against political opponents or against opposition or other statesmen. It must be a body that provides the State as an independent Ukraine, its higher political leadership with the necessary intelligence to make responsible political decisions that must be taken by the President, the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In large numbers, in every civilized country in the world, there are organs that appear, as it were, in the ears and eyes of the state, so as not to be blind or deaf. That's why I'm asking you to support these two bills in the first reading, and for the second reading to lay and guarantee that this is a truly civilized intelligence body and that it has control and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! It is put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the External Intelligence Service with the clarification of the 5th article, as follows: “Approval the special composition of the service in the existing number”. [[Registration number 8437]] Please vote. Based on the base. Vote. This is consistent with the President. I beg of you, dear fellows, let's vote. [[12:53:28]] For 310 The decision is based on the decision taken. It is now put to the vote for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the intelligence bodies]] First reading. Based on the base. Please vote. [[12:54:03]] For 304 Decision taken. You were working just now, I'm looking at it. Dear National Deputies! For 304, the decision is made. We're going to check your credit cards or not. They're gonna check it out. Dear colleagues, the draft rulings on the selection of judges are being announced. Registration numbers 8423, 8424,8425. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u147	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u148	The Committee on Legal Policy considered the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s head Vasil Malerenka, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Dmitry of Pritika, the head of the Supreme Court. the administrative court of Possenyuk, the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Dmitry of Pritica, to elect judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine to appeal courts, local courts, and advises you to choose the draft rulings accordingly. We've considered the submission of the Higher Qualifications Committee, all the materials for judges. And where there have been problems with the judges, the committee does not take up the Supreme Council. We bring to the attention of the Supreme Council those judges to whom, at least on the committee, there were no claims. The materials were sent to you a long time ago, on October 12th and 21st, you have them on your hands. The draft Decree 8423 on selection is now being issued on an uninterrupted basis: To the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Soboluk Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava district of Onishchenka Vitali Ilarionovitch; The Court of Appeal of Ternopil district of Dercert Lydia Ivanovna; and the local Rosius District Court of Zaporozhye district of Koržov Anatolia Vasilovich. The Committee supports the submission by the Head of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u149	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 8423, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[12:56:50]] For 376 I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u150	In accordance with paragraph 27 of the first part of article 85 of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, candidates for election shall also be submitted on an open-ended basis to: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Veselska Tetjana Fedorovna, Gončar Ljubov Jaroslavnovna, Gorbatuk Sergija Andrievich, Karasy Alexander Vasilovich, Kostenka Mikola Ivanovich, Liska Tamar Aleksiyevna, Lipski Dmitry Volodymyrovich, Marinczak Ninel Evgenovna, Stepashka Aleksandra Ivanovich, Čumachenko Tetjana Anatoliyevna; Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal Badakhov Tamar Panasovna, Heratchenek Igor Volodymyrovich, Shaptal Natal Kostinenovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Belov Ludmila Vasilovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal of the Street Vasil Zinovitch; Sevastopol Administrative Court of Dadinsk Tamara Viktorovna, Kucheruk Oleg Vasilovich, Sherenin Yuri Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u151	A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 8424, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[12:58:31]] For 365 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u152	The draft Decree 8425 on the election of judges is also before: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Catherinechuk Lilia Josephovna, Kota Alexander Vasilovich, Samusenko Svetlana Sergiyovna, Shargal Viktor Ivanovich; Donetsk's Court of Appeal, Stoyk Oksana Volodymyrna; Kiev Interdisciplinary Economic Court of Melnik Sergey Mikolaiovich; The Lviv Economic Court of Appeal Gnatuk Galin Mikolayevna, Kravchuk Natalija Mironovna; the local courts of the Donetsk Region of Jemelyanova Artura Stanislavovich; the local courts of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Škinder Pavel Anatoliyovich; the local court of the Kirovograd district of Mohonka Kostin Mikolaiovich; the local court of the Luhansk district of Kornienka, Ladislav Valeriyovich and Ryabtsev Olen Viktorovna; Local Economic Court of the Mikolai district of Greenow Tetjana Vitaliyevna, Seminovo Anatolia Kostyanović; the local court of the Hersonian district of Zakurin Mikol Kostinović; the local court of the Hmeljna District of Matuszák Oleg Ivanovich; and the local court-martial of the Cherkas region of Douganya Konstantin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 8425, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:00:24]] For 364 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the judges who have just been elected to office on an untimely basis and wish them success in their fruitful service to the rule of law. Yes, now the release order, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u154	Order, draft decree 8427. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 9, part 5 of article 126, article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is issuing a draft decree, which is supported by the Committee, for the appointment of the Head of the High Council of Justice on discharge on general grounds. Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Fedorizin Panas Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Kasapov Aleksija Semenović in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv District of Begin Tamara Fedorovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Odessa Region Bondarenko Lev Mihajlovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Tajniredne Mikhail Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of Kyiv’s Court of Appeal, Kuz Mikol Matviyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the South Ukrainian City Court of the Mikolai District of Lithuania, Vasil Prokopovich, in connection with the application for resignation; And Judge Leonid Leonid Leonidovich of the Hmelnitsky District District Court of Starosinjav in connection with the application for resignation. The committee checked the data, there was no pressure on the judges, it was their will and circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges, registration number 8427, is being voted on. Please vote. [[13:02:57]] For 314 Decision taken. The draft Law on the General Structure and Number of State Protection Administration is being announced for consideration. Registration number 8356, 8356-1. These are the rules of procedure, honourable colleagues: for the report, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, and up to three minutes from the committee. Then hold a discussion for 15 minutes. The rapporteur is the head of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority, Pluta Petr Vasilovich. Please, Peter Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the people, allow me to present to you a bill prepared to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Act of Ukraine on State Protection of the Government of Ukraine and Officials. The purpose of the adoption of the law is to bring the existing structure of the State Protection Authority into line with the direction of service activities defined by Ukraine’s legislation. As of November 15, 2005, almost a hundred officials and entities, including administrative buildings, state residences, and other facilities located in Kiev, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and in Ukraine, are constantly being protected. The number of government authorities was determined by a decree issued by the President of Ukraine in 1999. Since then, it has remained unchanged, although there has been a steady trend in increasing the number of subjects and officials under State protection. The employment of military officials in protective measures increases by an average of 10 percent each year. This leads to the forced overload of a staff that carries the service continuously. In addition, the amount of pressure exerted on military officials depends on the internal and external political activity of the State, the level of organization of State protection. For example: During international meetings, there is a 3-5 increase in workload on some branches of government. At the same time, there is a problem of specialized training for the Department of Public Protection. At present, none of the schools have been trained to do so. Therefore, this question also needs to be resolved. The bill proposed for approval takes into account the comments and proposals made by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, as well as the results of the discussions at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on national security and defence. It is proposed that the structure and size of the administration be approved in accordance with the bill. The implementation of this law will contribute to the achievement of the main objective of State protection: to ensure the security of the Ukrainian authorities and officials and to enable the administration to carry out its tasks in the clearly defined Constitution of Ukraine in the field of law. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Peter Vasilovich. Sign up for questions. Please, three minutes of Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u158	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Peter Vasilovich, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u159	On the left.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u160	In their information, it was said that the number of people being protected was constantly increasing. Every year, we have a growing number of presidents, prime ministers. How does it grow? What an order of growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, this means that the international activity of Ukraine is increasing. The number of delegations arriving in Ukraine and protecting persons who are protected abroad is legally bound to protect them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u162	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u163	We've got it now. And objects. And objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u164	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of "Ukraine". Dear Peter Vasilovich and I and the faction will be determined in the process of discussing this bill, whether we support it or not, because we don't understand what functions you're preparing your employees for. Remember when employees, coworkers of the Ukrainian State Security Authority took part in a mortuary near the CSA and personally guards, the government people of Alexander Zinchenka twisted their hands and tried to shove a national deputy of the Ukraine of Shufric. I don't understand what functions you're preparing your people for. So have you drawn any conclusions from the disgraceful fact that took place in the fall of the 2004 C.E.C.C.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Yes, of course, we concluded. The conclusions we came up with. But the Department of Public Protection protects and protects officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u166	Please, Rajkov Boris. Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u167	Dear reporter, please tell me the expansion of more than 800 members of the State Security Service. To the extent that you are willing to find qualified personnel, that is, the level of their legal culture and special training. Is there such a frame in Ukraine to complement? The other one. Please tell us if you are working with the Ukrainian Security Service antiterrorist centre to handle your tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u168	I'll answer the second question right away. Yes, we're involved in working with this center. On the first question. Not for more than 800, but about 400. And this is divorced by 2010. But what we're going to do here is we don't have a training base in Ukraine that prepares bodyguards, bodyguards. And that's why that's also the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u169	Rudkovsky Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u170	Dear Head of the State Security Service, please tell me. Michael Melnichenko announced that he would return to Ukraine. In view of the great interest of individuals, including those who are now in power, he should not speak much in Ukraine. Will the Security Service provide him with adequate security to deal with all matters? That's the first one. The other one. I personally met with the Security Service, but Leonidas Kuchma. When I was taken from the city of Chernigov as a national deputy, I was attacked by guards. I'm asking you to investigate who did this and return the National MP's certificate. And next. There was an accusation that some members of the Security Service seized North-Denmark 'Nazot' a few months ago when there were material disputes. Is it true or not? If not, tell me the truth, and it's slander. And by removing the charge in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u171	The Administration shall protect under the law and in accordance with the decrees or orders of the President. If there is a protection order for Melnicka, the authorities will carry out this order. On the other hand, I have no record of being caught or caught. Maybe it's the State Security Service, the structural unit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, not the Department of Public Protection? The authorities of the State have not been involved in such matters and will never do so. I wrote it down, I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u172	Thank you, Peter Vasilovich, sit down. From Valentin Zubov's Committee, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u173	Valentin Zubov, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! On 16 November 2005, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Number of the Office of State Protection of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 85, paragraph two, of the Constitution. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to bring the existing structure of the Office of State Protection of Ukraine into line with the direction of service and to ensure the safety of officials, and the state protection of cities of their permanent and temporary residence, and the protection of appropriate facilities. In general, in support of the draft Law, the committee finds it inappropriate to determine the number of administrations by 2010, since it is impossible to predict the number that the State Protection Authority will need at that time. The Committee proposes that the Supreme Council approve the number of Ukraine’s Department of State Protection for 2006 in the number in which it currently operates. With this in mind, it is proposed that the draft law should be clarified in an editorial form proposed by members of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Khruchkov and Zubov in an alternative bill, to adopt it as a basis and as a whole as a law. Yesterday, distinguished colleagues, we considered this bill very seriously and carefully at a meeting of the Committee. I have to be clear that we have not received clear, convincing answers to the questions, first, why is it that this service now has about 3,000 people? Secondly, why, on what basis does the bill provide for an increase in the number of employees by almost 500? On that basis, we have decided on the committee to introduce an alternative bill, which in fact repeats the bill passed by the President today, but excludes items that include an increase in the number of the State Security Service until 2010. As this bill is very relevant and should be considered in such a rapid manner, we ask this bill of our committee to support and adopt it as a basis and as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u174	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Let's start the discussion. Yuri Karmazin, prepare Gregory Omelchenko. 15 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have to adopt such a law, and we should have long since confirmed the totality of the Department of Public Protection. But the question is: look at the form of a law on the general structure as it is written: “Approval of such a general structure of the State Protection Authority: management, units of the protection of the authorities of Ukraine, officials and entities, regional units of state protection, units of security, enterprises, institutions, organizations, educational institutions”. Period. Is that how the law is written? Guys, what are you doing? But be amazed, and have respect for this body. It's called the Supreme Council, it's not an ass. And as you put it, enterprises. There's no more law where we've ever written it. I'm just surprised that we have this approach to normality. I understand what the Headmaster wrote, which is made up of remarks. True, he didn't give us a choice as to how to do it, but we had to do it, you know, because we're embarrassed. I am ashamed when this law is published in the media. What do people ask us? They'll say, what did you guys write? I will be ashamed to meet with army representatives who will say, “What are you doing? You cut us every year, you cut us half. And there is no reduction, there is going to be an increase.” What should I explain to them? And I meet them every time and talk to them. What will I explain? What is a very important post near Zinchenko and there must be a flag that does not miss the national deputy Carmazin?Oh, my God! What's that? That's what we need to figure out! And no one even apologized. To this day. Is that why we fought to put up extra fasts? So let's look for where we can cancel out. We need to adopt the Dentist Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u176	George Omelchenko. Prepare Alexander Bandurzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u177	Gregory Omelchenko, the constituency of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, when we consider such bills as we are considering today, what concerns the number and structure of the Ukrainian State Security Authority or what has touched Ukraine's external intelligence, there is no need for emotion. We need a reasoned approach to the structure of the number composition and every unit of increase in quantity needs to be justified, because these are the national funds that are being invested in the State Budget, which are being paid from the taxes of our citizens. On our faction, we discussed this bill and concluded that the bill prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputies, particularly the Zubov, who are members of the Defence and State Security Committee, is more acceptable for adoption in the first reading. And first of all, because the bill presented by the head of State Security, Peter Vasilovich Pluto, could not even explain why this important state structure was increasing. That's the first one. The other one. On the second reading, you can do that and what I suggest. The two parties involved should give serious reasons if they want to increase some more than 100 people so that we can do so, for this will be a binding, respectful friend, by setting up a budget to be adopted by the new year of this year for the following year. And if we can't do that, there's a question with money at the expense of these workers. Therefore, there is a proposal to adopt the bill in the first reading, which was proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. This is supported by the Committee on Defence and State Security. Do not reject the positions and observations that were contained in this bill, which was presented by Peter Vasilovich Pluto, who commented on the minister of justice of Ukraine. And in a week, when there's a plenary session, we have to adopt this law as a whole as a law, so that, if we increase by some amount this state structure so that it can be written into the budget that is budgeted. So I would like to support you in your first reading on the basis of a bill prepared by the people's deputies from the relevant committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u178	Please, Alexander Bandurka, follow him Vladimir Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u179	Dear Chief, distinguished national deputies, I wanted to speak on three points. First, the law on State protection of the authorities of Ukraine and officials was passed in 1998. And he's very much out of date. Today, this service has taken over both the police and the Security Service and the External Intelligence Service. It is necessary to make it clear, taking into account the present, to amend and supplement this law and to define the State Protection Service as a law enforcement agency. And in general, we have law enforcement agencies that no one knows how many there are in the state? Because there are different laws that define this concept and their lists are different. And to distinguish in the name of the State Security Service and the Administration or the State Protection Service, oil oil, is constantly in conflict with this issue. He's going to be protected -- and that's the second question -- the head of the Supreme Council, the President, the Prime Minister. This is what is required. The rest applies to self - help, except for foreign guests, again, the first ones. What happened in the state that we're asking about a 25% increase in this service? Both the President and the government are telling us, and we certainly have to assume that the situation in the country is improving every day. The mood is good, the prosperity is growing. Whom should we protect from? Crime is shrinking, it's okay. And we've been increasing our service thousands of times. According to reports recently received from literature sources, the President of France protects 36 people, and the rest is done by the police. We will also have the police involved if someone leaves the office and the State Security Service. And certainly, we need to clearly define the authority and competence to stop this cracking, which is now so densely flourishing in law enforcement agencies: both the IMF, the Security Service, and the State Security Service. I can see that I need to adopt the law that is proposed by Khrütchev – the Teeth, as clearly defined by the competence, the number of today's day, not 2010 when we're going to have a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u180	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Next, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u181	Dear comrades. Fucking Communist faction. It should be noted that the history of this issue is the Ukrainian Act on the State Protection of State Authorities of Ukraine and Officials. This law was passed back in 1998. And according to article 11 of the law, the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the submission of the President of Ukraine. And that's the question that we're already considering today, but I'm asking a question before the law that I've announced is the number of officials that this law applies to. We were told that the protection of persons and objects, the reporter, was over a hundred. How this law is implemented to protect officials, if we know that the current legislation is up to 10 persons. And we're watching when the President's office comes to the Supreme Council on four cars, the guards come out and escort him. Whether the Secretary of the National Security Council, who existed today, is also protected by this service. On what basis? Who gave the right? The Supreme Council did not consider the matter; the Supreme Council did not make a decision; rather, it was budgeted for the use of funds and for the protection of those officials. I think this is a gross violation of the constitutional rights of our citizens. This money is taken away from them and illegal actions are made against officials who are not under the protection of this service. I think that we should take that into account today when these documents are presented to us, so that we know, by voting here, that we are not going against our Ukrainian people. So, as a faction of Communists, we once again claim that such laws should be carefully discussed on committees and presented with the lectures that I have announced today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u182	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u183	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Honorary colleagues, Bill 8356, may need to be supported in bringing the number of Ukraine’s Department of Public Protection into line with those tasks that have certainly changed and that Ukraine has undertaken, including security commitments for foreign representations, diplomatic missions, and so forth. This is certainly not doubtful, perhaps. But first, I support my colleague Karmazin, and I have also been alerted by this negligence in the drafting of the law. This is certainly not Peter Vasilovich Pluti's fault, it's the President's bill. This is a problem with the President's Secretariat. And I would like to say in general today: “Every day, it is getting worse and worse than norm-technics and the quality of drafting drafts that come out of the President’s Secretariat.” The president of Ukraine should pay attention to his apparatus. If there are no professionals and some revolutionaries in the field, this situation needs to be changed. The other one. To understand quantity, we need to understand functions. They're changing, there's some new features, maybe functions, that's what the colleagues have been talking about here. Perhaps there are new commitments that will be made by the Ukrainian State Protection Authority, since I am once again claiming from this rostrum, it is unacceptable when state guards, coworkers of the State Protection Authority perform or engage in the performance of their inequitable functions in political divisions. We have before March 2006, an extremely tense time of political opposition. We can't let any more of these people get involved in these different kinds of collisions. And one more thing. I'm going to those fellow MPs who are making proposals to vote for an alternative, and he's not in the daytime. There's 8356, 8356-1 doesn't have a bill like that, so we're going to have to ask now about putting it into the agenda and voting for this bill. And last remark. As a former officer of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I believe that this consideration of intelligence and security should certainly be considered in a closed regime. There are things we'd like to ask are things we'd like to talk about, but we, the national deputies of Ukraine, have no foreign ears. Therefore, in a further request to the profile committee, insist that such bills be considered here in a closed session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u184	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u185	Deputies! Dear radio listeners! First of all, I want to support my colleague Jaroslav Dryhog in that the issue of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence, the State Security is really, really, there are some state secrets that we don't all necessarily know, we have closed sessions and we really need to decide on them. As to the substance of this bill. I don't know if Mr. Pluto has agreed on the need for an increase in the number of State Security Services. But unfortunately, there were no valid arguments in the Supreme Council Hall. And because of that, the approval of this bill seems more than questionable simply. It seems to me that we really need to be more balanced about this. A fairly normal outcome was indicated in the course of the discussion of the bill. In principle, there is absolutely no need for an alternative bill, because it actually duplicates the first part of the bill. We have enough to accept in the first reading of the bill and if the service continues to adequately prove the need to increase its numbers, and the time has passed, since 1998, we have indeed changed circumstances and perhaps there is a need for it, we will be able to do so, and accordingly we will be able to bring this number up with the cost of the budget, which we will be considering, as we know, December 1st. So my proposal goes back to that. In order not to work with the rush of conclusions, to adopt the bill proposed by the President in the first reading, it was once again weighed down to discuss, count and accept in the second reading that it was the basis for the adoption of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u186	Thank you. Yes. Manchulenko one minute, please, and we'll be clear. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u187	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! In September, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported and sent my parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine to submit draft laws on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Department of State Protection. This requirement is the Constitution, a direct requirement. Now we're looking at this very bill on the overall structure and number of the Department of Public Protection. And it's not about the functions, it's not about who this structure protects, it's about a completely different law. And let's change that law. What is the overall structure and size of the Department of State Protection? By the way, the number 2993 is this year, and it's proposed for next year. Please tell me, in which country of the world does Parliament or society in general know about the overall structure and number of secret services that protect the presidents? Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party supports the adoption of the bill as a whole proposed by Kručko and Zubov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question is closed. Literally, a few replicas of the problems that were raised. I draw the attention of Jaroslav Suhogo that, according to the Rules, if there are alternative bills, they are automatically considered together with the main ones and they do not need to be added to the agenda. It's an alternative bill. Major inclusion. There may be ten of them, and all of us are obliged to consider them. Next. For closed sessions. Dear colleagues! I think that for the 427 national deputies that we do not hold a closed session, there is no doubt that someone will share with journalists what we considered at that closed session. And not only will he share, but he will give papers. So there's nothing we can do in our society and there's nothing to hide here, everyone here, everything and everyone knows, so we're going to vote on the open session right now. I support Yuri Karmazin's proposal for law enforcement. I think the time will come when we recommend Yuri Anatoliyovich to the President's Secretariat to help those who prepare the bills there, and that's the right thing to do, and we'll have fewer problems in the Supreme Council. One more. I support Manchulenka here, who says that, dear colleagues, there is a basic law. Article 9, if I am not mistaken, requires this basic law to be confirmed by the Supreme Council. And everything else is in the basic law. Who's protected, who's protected, what functions they perform, is completely different. And that law requires that we confirm the number. Unfortunately, we do have a mix-up. In fact, we have very few people who distinguish between the two services. Because one service is called the Department of Public Protection, it's a separate service, and it's the State Department of Internal Affairs. And there's the state and there's the state. You probably have to get those names out so it doesn't happen. Because, indeed, Mikola Rudzikowski correctly said that his government service was doing something there. But whether it's the State Security Authority or the State Service. Let's change the names someday, and it'll be more clear. And basically, your colleagues, believe me, those who accuse you of being one or more of those who serve in the Department of Public Protection. Trust me, they don't interfere. They clearly obey the law that we have passed with you. They clearly obey the law. This should be asked of those whom they protect, why they give such instructions. And the business of those officers who carry out their service is to fulfill these standards. And last but not least, dear colleagues. The miner, what's the line? You've just been to the rostrum. You've just been to the rostrum. Remove your hands and press the buttons. And last but not least, dear colleagues. And last but not least, dear colleagues. The proposal was made to really confirm the number until 2010. I think our profile committee did the right thing making a proposal. And he's agreed with by the State Security Authority so that we can confirm the numbers for the following year. And then we'll eat, we'll see. So I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law on the approval of the total number of Bill No. 8356-1 on the approval of the number for 2006 alone. On adoption as a matter of law, please vote. [[13:37:12]] For 288 Thank you, the law was passed with approval for 2006. And then we'll see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, dear fellows. What procedure? Wait, sit down. Then make comments. Do you have a lot of notes? You need to calm down first. Yes, Your Honor, we need to come back with you to one of the issues that we talked about in the government days. Listen, please. We had decree number 8458, where it was about changing the government's days in December and January. I'll let you know what's going on. Dear colleagues, pay attention because we need to vote consciously. You and I, unfortunately, in violation of the Government's Day, have appointed two Days of Government for December. There can only be one day of government in line with the situation. And so it's suggested that, in December of the government Day of December 13, we consider two issues: this is a question related to the preservation of cultural monuments, and the next question is the fifth anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl power plant. And the second question, which was in December, about meeting the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine regarding the acquisition of quality education in rural areas, is to move to January 10th, because there, well, excuse me, the Chernobyl AES supports because it is the fifth anniversary of December. So in December we'll consider two questions in December and in January two questions in January. With such explanations, I ask to vote in favour of Decree 8458. Please vote. [[13:39:30.]] For 272 Thank you. 272, decision taken. Let us go to the section “Second Reading”. Please sign in from the procedure. Some people can't take it. There'll be a break soon. Three minutes. Yes, show me, please. Dry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u189	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I am addressing the Ukrainian national deputies. Let us somehow force our own Presidency to respect us. Adam Ivanovich, I don't need your comments at all. I've known you for a long time and a lot of respect, I think. Please don't comment on me, don't give me advice, whether I'm patient or impatient, I can stand it, I can't stand it, I can't calm down. I've got another psychotherapist! Keep an eye on yourself! And stop commenting on the Ukrainian national MPs, we have not authorized you to do so! You're in session while you're sitting in that chair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Suhi! Please read the Rules, which say “if the speaker makes any amendments that do not correspond to the reality, the right of the chairman to comment”. You said you had to put the law in order of the day. I explained, in accordance with the Rules, that it should not be included because it is an alternative. And take it all quietly and you won't need any psychiatrists. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u191	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! I would still ask you, talking about the procedure, to consider the sequence in which they are and not to be distracted, I beg your pardon, for election or for some other emotion. There is 8148 today, this is a draft decree to improve the provision of public, social services to the population at the local level. Author Fomenko Ekaterina Alexandrovna, colleague of the faction of the Lithuanian people's bloc. My dears, let's instead say that we don't understand why, let's look at this kind of order, take them, and it'll make it a little easier for our citizens, who we're all so passionate about when we start talking about our political wishes in March 2006. Let us make it easier to do what should be done by the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u192	We're going in the daytime, we're going to come, we're going to take a look. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u193	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”, Block Yushchenka. Dear Adam Ivanovich, here is a group of deputies around me from various factions, including Eugene Gorenik of “Reform and Order”, who are still asking attention to the fact that there is no need, especially before the elections, to comment on the elections and in this part with the speeches by Jaroslav Dryog all the deputies who are here, they agree. But I think there's a more important question than our internal parliamentary problems. These are the problems of millions, more than 14 million pensioners, of whom 13.5 million receive pitiful pensions under the solidarity system, and there are a million, well, fewer than a million, who receive higher pensions. Well, whoever worked harder is supposed to get a higher pension, but those people who worked well get a small one. That is why we propose, “Our Ukraine” and the People's Movement, and “Reforms and Orders” to take a break in order to negotiate and consult and, after a break, to return to the issue and vote in favour of the draft laws on maximum pensions, because it is in the interests of everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u194	Thank you, dear fellows, for speaking out of procedure. The question is, really, we have a pretty responsible day today, so there are emotions, we can understand them. Let us now consider the question of second reading. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking. [[on branches of foreign banks]] Registration number 7274. Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u195	I would like to remind you briefly, Mr Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, that these changes are aimed at legal settlement of the issue of granting foreign banks the right to open a branch in Ukraine and to carry out banking activities, as well as an important condition for resolving Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization and to Ukraine's membership in the European Union. I emphasize that there are now nine banks in Ukraine that are fully controlled by nonresidents and 14 with a partial share of foreign capital. But mostly these banks serve foreign companies operating in Ukraine. Banks controlled by nonresidents account for about 14 percent of the assets of Ukraine’s banking system and about 1.6 percent of the statutory capital of the banking system. That is, the current ban on opening branches of foreign banks in Ukraine did not prevent them from taking up a certain part of the banking market in our country. Those foreign financial institutions that wanted to come to Ukraine had already come, so that's a reality you can't close your eyes on. And we need to create, in our opinion, clear conditions that will benefit us. Therefore, with a view to ensuring the arrival of branches of reliable foreign banks to Ukraine, Bill 7,274 provides for the establishment of a number of conditions necessary to obtain a permit for the opening of branches of a foreign bank in Ukraine. In particular, such conditions are: a State in which a foreign bank is registered should not belong to States that do not cooperate in countering the legalization of money acquired by criminal means and to a group in the development of financial measures to combat money-laundering. Bank supervision in a country where a foreign bank is registered is consistent with the Basel basic principles of effective banking supervision. Availability is the third, the existence of a written obligation by a foreign bank to fulfil its obligations arising from the operation of its branch in Ukraine. Fourth, the foreign bank’s statutory capital should be at least 500 million euros. That's a pretty high billboard. The minimum size of the subsidiary capital at the time of its accreditation should be at least 10 million euros and something else. The second reading, I report, came up with seven suggestions, all taken into account. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to support this bill in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u196	And generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u197	That's right, as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u198	Okay, thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Banking and Banking Act, registration number 7274. [[on branches of foreign banks]] [[13:47:32]] For-183 The factions, please. Communists – 1, “Regions of Ukraine” – 0, People's Party – 26, “Our Ukraine” – 33, Block Timoshenko – 25, Socialists – 7, Ukrainian People's Republic – 24, Social Democrats – 0, People's Block – 14, “Trust of the People” – 11, Reforms and Order – 7, Ukraine – 11, National Movement – 13, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 6, non-fractional – 5. [[United]] What's the committee's offer? Who's in charge of re-reading, please make up your mind. [[13:48:29]] For 184 One vote more. The bill was rejected. A draft law on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration, registration number 3586, second reading. [[on the debtor's liabilities]] Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Budzihan Philip Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was adopted at the first reading on June 30, 2004. I would like to remind you that it is proposed by this bill to grant shareholders the right to participate in cases of bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings in order to protect their rights. The Committee received 17 amendments from the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 6 were taken into account, whether editorially or partially 7, rejected-4. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general, although I think Adam Ivanovich, we will follow the rules. Or whatever.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u200	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one who made the amendments is, in principle, all taken into account. Doesn't he insist on repairs? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u201	None. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u202	Then I put to the vote the second reading and generally as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the debtor’s obligations. Registration number 3586. Please vote. [[13:50:15.]] For 124 It's a government bill, by the way. What are the suggestions of the committee? Overruled? Overruled. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act "Recovering the Payability of the Debtor or Recognizing It as a Bankruptcy". Registration number is 4432. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u203	So 4,432 went to the committee, 7 amendments from the National Deputies – 2 counted, 5 counted in an editorial manner. Is there a proposal from the Supreme Council Committee, Adam Ivanovich, which 3586?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u204	4432. We considered 3,586 on the debtor’s liabilities, and now 4,432 on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u205	Similarly, the committee considered the bill, part of the amendments included, some taken into account editorially, four rejected. The committee also proposes to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u206	Do those who make amendments and who are unaccounted for not insist? No, it's not. Then I am referring to the adoption, as a whole, of a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Payment of the Debtor, registration number 4432. Please vote. [[13:52:01]] For 276 Thank you, the law has been passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 4584, is being complied with. [[on compulsory pension insurance]] Aloshin Valery Borisovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! I'll remind you that the bill was already under consideration on September 6th, and then the Supreme Council made a decision to re-direct the second reading. After that decision, the committee organized the work and mainly took into account the observations made by the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the bill is to bring individual legislative acts into line with the law on compulsory government pension insurance. During the process, 62 proposals were considered, the absolute majority counted, and seven were rejected due to the removal of the standards of change to which those proposals were addressed. There is a proposal to support the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! Those who made offers are unaccounted for, don't you insist? I then vote on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of amendments to some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 4584. [[on compulsory pension insurance]] Please vote. [[13:53:50]] For 262 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, second reading, 7710 is under consideration. [[on the promotion of the production of petrol, motor mixers]] Seven-foot Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u209	Dear fellows, dear Head! Ukraine's draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is designed to create economic incentives for domestic enterprises to produce petrol by using bioethanol. [[on the promotion of the production of petrol, motor mixers]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u210	Anatoly Ivanovich, I'm sorry, we've already reported in the first report, you tell me that we're not counting, we're not counting and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, 25 amendments have been made by national deputies. They're practically all accounted for or partially accounted for. It is proposed that the committee adopt the bill in a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u212	Yes, thank you. Are those who are unaccounted for insisting? No, it's not. Well, then, we have two draft decrees, but in fact this is one draft decision, just signed by, as it were, the same project as different authors, but it's absolutely the same. So I'm sorry, I'm only going to put it to a vote once. This is a draft decree signed by MPs Karmazin, Ljapina and Grigorovich on the inadmissibility of this bill. According to the rules, I will be the first to make an inadmissibility order. I am voting on draft decree 7710-P-1 and P-2 of the People's Deputies of Karmazin, Ljapiny and Grigorovich on the inadmissibility of this bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:55:50]] For-33 Please state for one minute, we'll re-vote. Well, three minutes, three minutes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. I repeat, they're not different decisions, they're comatose, dot-to-dot identical. Various authors, but you're all three. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u213	From three to nine minutes, plus the minute you sent me to the Secretariat. This is Yuri Karmazin and another national MP, Adam Ivanovich. And you're sending me to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u214	To help the people remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u215	No, thank you. Yashchenka's due, then we'll go work there, don't worry. Dear friends, Bill 7710 is probably not exactly what we expected. Society was waiting. This law to amend certain laws on the promotion of the production of motor gasoline, which we believe is contrary to part three of article 95 of the Constitution, paragraph two of the first article seven of the Ukrainian Budget Code and article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which establishes that the laws of Ukraine that affect the formation of the income part of the budgets should be officially published by 15 August of the year preceding the plan. This reduction will result in the government budget coming into line with the balance sheet of the Budget, the underfunding of socio-economic development programmes. That is why we believe that it does not conform to article 95 of the Constitution. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine did not provide an expert opinion on the value of the impact of the bill on the income and expenditure portion of the budget and on the appropriateness of its adoption. There is no such evaluation by the Budget Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukraine’s legislation on motor gasoline remains virtually unchanged. And we wanted to change it with you by adopting this law in the first reading. So the production of high-octane oxygen supplements is bioethaneol, regulated by valid legislation. With regard to the change in the name of the very component of the high octane oxygen supplement, it is the same bioethanol, or active name. is in line with Directive 2003/30EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 8 May 2003. And you can use any one of these names that doesn't have any effect on its production in Ukraine. However, the bill does not simply refer to editorial changes in the name. And unfortunately, it's not meant to create conditions to increase fuel production with the content of biologically renewables components to provide, firstly, the agricultural sector of Ukraine, to ensure a reduction in its value, etc. The changes made to the laws in force in the proposed bill will not provide an opportunity to stimulate the production of motorized, mixed petrol and will not contribute to the capacity of domestic enterprises. This will only lead to negative consequences for Ukraine, which will reduce the budget for the reduction of excise collection by half, i.e. from 60 to 30 euros. I'm asking, who's in favor? What Will the State Budget Win? Let's look at their conclusion, let them give it to us. They don't give us anything. And this is for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u216	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatolyovich! Yuri Anatolyovich! Come on. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u217	The most important thing for Ukraine is that only 38 percent of the capacity of companies in the production of alcohol is used. Therefore, all restrictions aimed only at the production of biotenol, the introduction of quotas, and so forth will not lead the sector out of the bankrupt and do not meet the needs of Ukraine. This question requires a completely different conceptual approach with 100 percent of all these capacities being used. It will be in the interests of the agricultural sector, it will be in the interests of our people and in the interests of filling the State budget. And now we're just going to lose. So, dear friends, I asked you to reform this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m0.u218	Yes, thank you. Once again, I'm putting in a motion for an inadmissibility order. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:37]] For-48 After Yuri Anatoliovich's speech, the voices were added. And I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law to amend some of Ukraine's laws to encourage the production of motor-mixed petrol. Registration number 7710. Please vote. [[14:01:09]] For 214 What suggestions? Another second. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to re-route the second. Please vote. [[14:01:39]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two small laws here. If you don't mind. Listen, please. It's half-pages. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption actors]] And the Second Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption and other offences]] I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Registration number 5315. Please vote. [[14:02:28]] For 135 Clearly, there is a resistance. Let's call it a break. After the break, we will return to these laws. A break of 16 hours is announced.
