ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:09:37]] Ladies and gentlemen, 409 national deputies have been registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! In Ukraine, with an official visit, a delegation of the Irish Parliament is headed by Speaker Rolli Henlon. The tall guests are now in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, let us welcome our guests and wish us a fruitful stay on a hospitable Ukrainian land. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies, today is the birthday of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Goslovsky Vladimir Sergiyyovich. Let us also welcome our colleague and wish him success. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you some information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on October 6, 2005. Thirty-three questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: four laws and 18 regulations have been passed, eight bills have been adopted on the basis of two bills, eight bills and one draft decree have been rejected. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, three laws have been passed in a new edition. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. People’s Deputies Asked About Ukraine Mikhail DOBKINA to the President of Ukraine on the use by the US resident of Kiyanichenko and other heads of the State Enterprise, the “Ukrainian polygraph” service to implement shadow schemes for State funds, the use of these funds not for the purpose of purpose, but for the satisfaction of their political ambitions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:36]] For 121 Request not supported. OLEXIJUCA to the President of Ukraine on the criminal seizure of strategic enterprises in the production of documents of strict reporting by senior State officials of the Council of National Security and Defence, Cabinet of Ministers, Secretariat of the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:13:12]] For-157. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:13:33]] For 196 The decision is not taken. Vassil GORBAL to the President of Ukraine regarding the use of the office position by officials of the Attorney-General's Office in part of the failure of the President of Ukraine, resulting in significant losses to the economy of the State. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:14:07]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the elimination of the principles of freedom of expression, censorship and pressure on journalists in Ukraine. [[W. ZAJEN, KRAVCHUK, GAVRISH]] I mean, Vladimir the Rabbit. Not you, not Ivan. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:14:46]] For 214 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:15:09]] For 258. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the realisation of the property of the Open Shareholder Society Photo, which has occurred with numerous violations of legislation. [[VERNIGORA, BLUEWORK, GLASS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:15:42]] For 122 The decision is not taken. OLEXIJUKA to the President of Ukraine for causing particularly large-scale government budget losses by the U.S. resident of Kianichenko, former director of the Ukrainian polygraphic combination, who now works as the head of strategic development of this company. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:16:17]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the threat of “black” archaeology to Ukraine's national historical and cultural heritage. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the provision of disabled persons with a special vehicle. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification work of the villages of Lisovici and Mikolayevka of the Vishgrad region. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister for delaying the execution of the decision of the Court of Appeal in the Cherniewsky region. DAVID’S people to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of pipelines and the gasification of Kharkiv rural areas. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the financial situation which has had a devastating impact on the completion of the construction of the high-pressure gas pipeline from Novomirgoroda to the small viska of Kirovograd. Anatolya MOROZA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of rights violations to citizens who worked in the economic field from 1958 to 1991 in the matter of recalculation of pensions as at 1 January 2004. Mr. KARMAZINA to the Prime Minister for the violation of the right of a national deputy to receive reliable answers to a parliamentary request to the authorities and their officials in connection with the irresponsible write-off of the Rector of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenko Skopje. Vladimir NICHIPREK to the Prime Minister regarding the ignoring of the rights of residents of the Balzak street in Kiev for housing and rest, as well as the illegal construction of the surrounding area. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for partial compensation for the value of mineral fertilizers for farmers. Vladimir Pechotti to the Prime Minister for the recalculation of pensions for citizens who worked for harmful manufacturing. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister on the legality of the use of the ex-secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of the Department of State Protection, as well as on the investigation of road traffic accidents involving the car from the Petra Prašenk cruise, in connection with the loss of life. Mr Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Prime Minister for the review of the budgetary indicators of the Ternopil region in 2005. Mikoli Komara to the Prime Minister for the repair of the “Severski Donec – Donbas” channel. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister on the organization of children's education in Romanian institutions. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the appropriateness of the positions held by the head of the Romanian District State Administration of the Jítomir Region of Valerija Yasinski. [[CHEVCHENKO, TRUSHTUK, SAMPLAVI AND OTHERS]] LUKJANENKA left to the Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification of the village of Serbinjka Hmelnicka. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the property claims of the Open Association “Concern “Electron” to the West Ukrainian Institute of Information Technology and Management. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Poltava District Administration, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the ecological and health-epidemiological situation, problems of water supply of the villages of Karabaziwak and the City Mills of the Zinkov district of Poltava, as a result of illegal activities of the “P o l a t a t a t a t a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t h a t a t h a t h a t h a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a t a Mr Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the villages of the Zastavnov region of Chernovets region. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Prime Minister on the cessation of the cultural, spiritual and linguistic genocide perpetrated by the Russian authorities in relation to the Ukrainian diaspora that resides in this country. Jury DYDENKA to the Prime Minister for the support of Innovation Technologies, which is the result of the cooperation of the Mikolai Institute of Technology and the Frolova Movement. YOURY OF THE ORBS to the Prime Minister for the restoration of funding for the purchase of medicines for children with hypophysic nanism. Dmitra Świataša to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the use by the resident of the U.S. Kiyanichnik and other heads of the State Enterprise of the “Polygraphic combination“ Ukraine” service with the aim of implementing the shadow schemes for State-owned funds, the use of these funds not for the purpose of purpose, but for the satisfaction of their political ambitions. Igora Nasalika to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of the United Nations. Melnik in connection with the failure to implement the Supreme Council Order of March 3, 2005, following the parliamentary hearings held on February 16, 2005. Yuri FOYKA to the Prime Minister for the establishment of justice in the payment of savings to the villagers, who, unlike the locals, do not have debt for housing, but should receive their savings. Jury KROWROČKA to the Prime Minister on the cessation of cultural, spiritual and linguistic genocide by the Russian authorities in the person of the President of the Russian Federation concerning the Ukrainian diaspora that resides in that State. Anatoly of Korczynski to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, concerning the violation of legislation by the Sokirian regime of the Montenegrin Region to the director of the agro-industry company, RIF Agro. Victor MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister on the 2006 budget forecast for the State budget, which provides for the benefit of veterans of the Great Homeland War to pay for residential services. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister for bringing the officials of the Kirovograd District Administration and the District Administration of Justice to justice for failing to execute a decision on the renewal of the post of Head of Education and Science of the Kirovograd Observatories of Prilepko. Oleg KARATUMANOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the criminal seizure of strategic enterprises from the production of documents of strict reporting by senior State officials of the National Security and Defence Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. Efima FIXA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the use of the post of office by officials of the Attorney General's Office as part of the failure to perform the tasks of the President of Ukraine, resulting in significant losses to the economy of the State. Mr Dmitra Świataša to the Prime Minister, Prosecutor General, Minister of Finance, Minister of Internal Affairs, Ministry of Internal Affairs, particularly large-scale government budget, President of the United States of China, former director of the Ukrainian polygraph, who now works as the head of strategic development of this enterprise. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the purpose of deliberately incurring the bankruptcy of the Shramkian sugar plant and for drawing the criminal responsibility of the officials responsible for the theft of its property. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria SAMOPLAV to the Prime Minister on the need to transfer the task of the relief organization to the citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster to the local executive authorities and local self-government authorities. Andrea POLIETA to the Prime Minister for the organization of medical examination and the provision of assistance to the convict. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on financing the completion of the construction and reconstruction of socio-cultural sites of the village of Velika Lepeticha in the Hersson region. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the verification of the abuse of power, the theft of state funds, the corruption of individual officials of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Committee on the State Material Reserve in the disarmament and implementation of low prices of ferrospile and colour metals. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] Gennady GORLOVA to the Prime Minister on tariffs for the transport of scrap metal by rail. Alexander MOROZA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the Radiation and Social Protection Programme of the City of Yellow Waters in 2006. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Comprehensive Economic and Social Development Programme of the city of Sudak. Mr Wojša to the Prime Minister on the difficult financial situation in Simferopol. Tamara Proscuratou to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the village of Drabov in the Cherkas region. Eugene HYRNIKA and Michael KOSIVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the social hospital in the village of Savior Rožnetov. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Head of the State Property Fund for the re-examination of violations of legislation in the rental of the entire property complex “State Enterprise “Terreske Electrotechnical Plant”, which, by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 December 2002, has been attributed to enterprises of strategic importance. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] SERGEANT SASA to the Prime Minister on the use of the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development by the State Enterprise “Centre of the State Land cadastre of the State Committee on Land Resources”. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Prime Minister on the procedure for the implementation of the military assets of the Armed Forces. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the improper financing of the “Programme of Information for Public Schools, Computerization of Rural Schools” and the acquisition of school buses in the Kitzman constituency No.203 of the Cherniewsk Region. Jury KRUKA to the Prime Minister on land reform issues in the Saratsk district of Odessa. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of gas pipelines in the Tachiv region of Zakarpat. Mr. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Fund of State for the abuse of office by the management of the Open Association of the KIC “Criminal” and some of the National Deputies. MICHELLE TO THE Prime Minister on the inadmissibility of raising the price of natural gas for the population and for utilities. Vitalia HOMUTINICA and Mikola COMARA to the Prime Minister for bringing the previous Ministry of Finance benchmarks into line with the budgetary needs of the Costa Rican region of the Donetsk Region. Anatolia Rachánské to the Prime Minister on gasification in the villages of Molochny and Suvorovsk Sachské district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. KRUKA’S Jury to the Prime Minister on the development of the vocational education system. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister on the insufficient financing of subsidies provided by the State Budget for the 203th constituency of the Montenegrin Region. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the return of funds to the Mashewski Inter-economic Incubator-Breeding Company of the Potava Region, which was currently accounted for in the branch of the bankrupt bank “Ukraine”. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Liaison on the Obstacle to the Development of Maritime Transport, the Cancellation of the Order of the Ministry of Transport and the Liaison of 4 April 2005 “On the Approval of the List of Maritime Commercial Ports of Ukraine which conduct the State Registration of Ships” for reasons of its inadequacy with the Constitution. [[CARMASINE, DELIVERY, CUTTER, AND OTHERS]] Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the elimination of the imbalance in wages in the centralized accounting offices of local self-government. Mr. Paul TUTCHANA to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko on the violation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine by the Kyiv Medical Academy of Postgraduate Doctors. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko on the provision of information on the terms of the pension index in 2005 to pensioners who worked as civil servants in agricultural bodies. Victor MIRONENCY to Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka for the request of the organisation of veterans of the city of Kerch for the financial provision of payment travel in accordance with the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection. Anatolya Rachánské to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko, Minister of Finance, Head of Finance, Ministry of Justice, on the restoration of jobs for blind European entrepreneurship. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Minister of Transport and Liaison concerning the activities of the Director of the South Airlines airline, the improper use of the certificate for the departure/flight of Angolan aircraft from the airports of Ukraine in the territory of other States, the illegal transport of military and dual-purpose goods without providing insurance coverage through the presentation of false insurance policies. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] Larissa UZACHENKO to the Attorney-General on the misconduct of the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv district of Poltava in the investigation of a criminal case involving the abuse of office by officials of the Open Shareholders Association “Poltawaz”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General for the unlawful conduct of the management of the closed-circuit association Malva and the guard company Bezan. Alexander KARENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the requirements of the Law on Citizens' Appeal by the head of the Suma District Government Administration of Lavrik. OLEXIJUKA to the Attorney-General for the criminal seizure of strategic state-owned enterprises for the production of documents of strict reporting by senior State officials of the National Security and Defence Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Office of the President. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General for violating the rights of the religious community of the Ostróg Rivenské region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General, Deputy Minister of Justice of Emilianova, on the situation that took place in the TEC team 1-2 of the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd district in connection with the failure to pay wages for eight months. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Attorney General on the criminal activity of General Rybosapko Tax Police, published in the U.S. newspaper “Ukraine and Time” from 2004-2005. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General regarding the unlawful actions of the head of the farm “Klepka” concerning residents of the village of Pristina in the Kupyan district of Kharkiv. Ms Aleksandra CARENKA to the Attorney-General for information on staying in search of the case, which bears the mark of the economic crime of a citizen of Lopushinski prior to his appointment as the first deputy of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General to ensure that the murder case is properly investigated. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the corruption of individual officials of local authorities and local self-government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the irresponsible attitude of prosecutors regarding the protection of the interests of the State in the illegal removal of the land-use fund of the Lower Orange Sanatorium. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney General on the mass violations of the Criminal and Procedural Code by the Prosecutor of the Ordjonikidev district of Zaporozhye. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of residents of the ‘Himselište’ city of Cherkasa from the management of the ‘Region’ in the construction of a gas station with a complex of road transport services on the street of Engelsa. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on information on the implementation of the pressure by Dustenkom on the head of the Chamber of Economic Affairs of the Supreme Court with a view to making the necessary decision in the case on the frequency of the NTN television channel. [[V.ZAJEN, SHUFRIC, SURMA]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General on the implementation of the assets of the Open Shareholder Society Photon with violations of the law. [[REDOVSKI, KROWROKE, GLASS]] MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the facts of unlawful persecution by the internal affairs authorities and the prosecutor’s office of the chief physician at Ravenna district radiation protection. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney-General, President of the National Academy of Sciences for the violation by officials of the National Academy of Law Sciences during the transfer of the residence building on the street of the city of Vladimir Kyiv to the balance of the merger of the owners of the apartment building “Operan”. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the abuse of the official position of prosecutors and police in the city of Kupyanska Kharkiv district in criminal proceedings. Igora ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors, Minister of Environmental Protection, Acting Minister of Health, Chief State Sanitary Officer, on the situation of violations of the laws of the FT and SMR on the treatment-diagnostic centre and on the disposal of capsules with radioactive fuel in the town of Sosniuka Lvivsk. Mr. Tamara Proscurator - General, Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the pressure of the leadership of the Donetsk district administration on a team of the head of education and science in the Donetsk region. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the grounds that the actions of the municipal authorities regarding land ownership belonging to the Pushkin High School. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General regarding the circumstances of the former First Deputy to the U.S.S.A. Department in Kharkiv district of Cheriomukhin’s involvement in the commission of crimes. Eugene HYRNIKA and Michael Kosiv to the Attorney General on new facts in the investigation of the “Lviv archive case”. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the U.S.A. on the violation of the criminal case in the case of the Holodomor in 1932-1933, which was recognized by the genocide of the Ukrainian people, a crime to which no period of time has been applied. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the destruction of the principles of freedom of speech, the imposition of censorship and pressure on journalists in Ukraine. [[The rabbit, the duck, the raven.]] Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General for a criminal offence against the Head of the Old Village of Borispolski, the district attorney for the Kyiv region. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the National Bank on the illegal actions of the liquidator of “Ukraine” in estrangement of the former hotel “Niva” in Chernigov. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General on the legality of the alienation of property and property by regional consumer associations in the Kyiv region. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General for refusing to allow land rations to be taken from the villages of Happyvé, Gora, Gnydin in the Kyiv region. Anatolia GREZJEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on measures taken to react by prosecutors and internal affairs agencies of the Donetsk Region on the rape and sale of a minor to Russia. Mr. Stéphane HMARI and Mr. Kiril POLIŠČUK to the Attorney General on the grounds of the conviction by the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Yaschenka. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the Attorney-General of the district of Suma in connection with the review of the court case of Ananchenk. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, who are responsible for the Ministry of Health’s duties regarding the fact that the authority has been exceeded, the official falsification, the corruption of the Chief of the Kharkiv District Office of the Medical and Forensic Expertise of the Instructor. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] JOURIA SHIRKA to the Attorney General for the cover-up of crimes committed by the former head of the Mikolai State University of Sukhomlinsky during the presidential elections, the prosecutor of the Mikolai district. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the legality of the criminal case against the former head of the Montenegrin District Authority of Butka. [[RADIO, CORRESPONDENT IN LUKE]] VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION to the Ministry of Health regarding the mammograph's enumeration of details at the Denishi Radiation Protection Center of the Žitomir region. THE Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the continuation of the work from the reconstruction of the energy cloud No. 1 of Tripoli’s TES. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for the Reconstruction and Refurbishment of the Bortnicka Station of the Aeration. To the Minister of Water Protection and Water Tariffs for the People of Military City No.12, the city of Priluka, Chernigiv district. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the provision of road transport to group II disabled persons who participate in hostilities. [[TOMICH, TKALENKO, TKORNOVLENKO]] To the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Vladimir CHAPPETINE paid a one - time compensation to citizens who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Minister of Education and Science on the allocation of funds for the capital repair and updating of the educational and material base of the Žitomir district pedagogical fly. Paul MATIWIENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of predicting the cost of carrying out work on the gasification of radioactively polluted areas of the Žitomir region allocated for the implementation of the Chernobyl Construction Program in 2006. Vladimir SIMONOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding dissatisfaction with a criminal case involving the death of a person. Ms. FOMENKO, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health for delaying the adoption of the order to order the conditions of payment of work and the approval of tariff schemes for health - care workers. Mr. Wojsza to the Minister of Finance for the Financing of the Crimean Tatar Programme and the People of Other Nationalities, who returned to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for permanent residence. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Minister of Defence on the actions of the Žitomir District Military Commission in violating the citizen’s right to become a participant in hostilities. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Coal Industry on the return of the basic funds to the state-owned company Luganskwogil. FOMENCO to the Ministry of Finance for non-indemnity to the local budgets of medium-term interest-free loans in the absence of accounting for income, which is included in the determination of inter-budget transfers. MICHELLE’S to the minister of internal affairs in connection with the recalculation of a former police captain’s pension. Vladimir Paka to the Minister of Education and Science, the Attorney-General, on the possible facts of the unlawful actions of the Director of the Demidiv School of Education and Science in the Kyiv region. Anatolysa ORJAHOVA to the executive responsibility of the minister of health to provide for a person who has heart failure, an artificial stimulus to the rhythm of the heart. Igor ŠURMI to the first deputy minister of culture and tourism regarding the increase in public funding for the museums of Lviv. groups of national deputies to Kiev City in connection with detected violations of legislation in the organization of illegal commercial activities in the area of the cultural park and hydropark recreation. [[WOMEN, MOYSIC, CLIMINCO]] Igora KALICZENKO and Mikoki Komara to the Head of Government of Naftogaz Ukraine for the financing of gasification objects at the expense of state budget subsidies. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration for the deterioration of sanitary and environmental standards for residents in building a multi-story window of truth. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Head of Kharkiv District Administration on the gasification of the village of the Great Burluk of Kharkiv. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Head of the Board on the need to stop activities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the People's Front, Sevastopol-Crim-Russia, which is causing a violation of the territorial integrity of the State. MICHAYLA MELNIČUCA to the Head of the State Committee on Water Management for the Restoration of Water Supply in the village of Krestatík Zastavnovský district, Cherniewec region. Mr. Alexander EDINA to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities, the Kyiv City Head, the head of the Kiev City Administration, the prosecutor of Kiev for violations of the constitutional rights of Crotenko. Anatoly of Korczynski to the Head of State Judicial Administration concerning the unjustifiably reduced number of judges in the Kielmeneck region. Igor KALICHANK to the Head of the Pecher Reservoir of Kiev in connection with the construction on the street of Starnavodnička. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund for the irresponsible attitude of social security officials toward the pensioner. MICHAEL CATHERINCHUCA to the Head of State Tax Administration for illegal tax compensation for added value in September 2005 to individual subjects of entrepreneurial activity. A group of national deputies to the procurator of the Hersonian district for obstacles to the provision of post office facilities in the Hersonian region. [[TOMICH, TKALENKO, TKORNOVLENKO]] Levka LUKJANENKA to the prosecutor of Odessa for failure to execute a court decision by the former CEO of the “Odeski” Interenina market. Vassila ONOPENKA to the prosecutor of Kiev for violating the law enforcement of the Dniprovsky District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kiev. Mr. John KURAS, Mr. Aleksandra ZAVOZNI, Mr. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine for the objective examination of the facts of unwarranted criminal liability. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the application of measures to prevent mass violations of labour law and to bring the guilty to justice. Mr. Stanislav PHYDENKA to the Minister of Education and Science, the Attorney-General for Political Disposal and Gross Violations of Actual Legislation during the discharge of the Director of the Laski School, Volodymiro Volinsky District, Volinsk Region. GREGORY OMELČENA to the Attorney General on the verification of information regarding the abuse of office and the improper performance of the service duties of the district attorney’s officers. VICTOR MIRONENA to the Minister of Education and Science on the demands of young Kerchi, who insists on increasing the funding for education in the 2006 State Budget project to bring free form of education to 90 percent of educational institutions. Thus, honourable colleagues, 142 parliamentary inquiries have been made. By factions: Ukrainian Communists 26, Ukrainian Regions 13, National Party 9, Our Ukraine 15, BUT 10, SPU 11, Ukrainian People's Party 10, SPDU 18, Go, Ukraine! - 6, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 2, "The People's Movement" - 9, "Reforms and Orders" - 4, "NDP" and "True Ukraine" - 2, "non-factional" - 4. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the national MPs who signed up for the speech using the electronic system. I'd ask the National Deputies to take into account the nature of the recording and not make notes for the performances, they can't be implemented. Michael Kossov is invited to the presentation. The Reform and Order faction. Prepare Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! I have a task from the Reform and Order Party faction to read the application. So: The Reform and Order Party opposes attempts to restore free economic zones, priority development areas and other tax gaps. Harmful practices cannot be resuscitated when someone has to pay taxes, and someone can be relieved of this obligation. Taxes in Ukraine are to be paid by everyone. And they all have to be in equal conditions. This consistent position has been maintained by the PRP and its leader, Victor Pinzenik, for all the years of the party’s existence. And that's the principle that the entire civilized world lives on. It should also be recalled that the equality of all subjects of property right before the law establishes the 13th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Law on Protection of Economic Competition establishes that granting individual aids or other advantages to competitors is illegal. It is wrong to think that the existence of free economic zones promotes investment. Because who's going to invest money in the Ukrainian economy if you can't pay VAT when you export imported goods to Ukraine, while a domestic producer sells its goods with this tax. It's better to invest abroad from abroad to import products through the free zone and avoid paying VAT. That's how you get imported. Were investment commitments made in free economic zones? No, it's not. And it's about profit companies. Free economic zones guaranteed nearly a billion dollars of investment in Ukraine. Instead, the country received only $306 million, or three times less. Priority areas were obliged to invest $5.7 billion in the domestic economy, with only 1.8 billion, and three times less. The PRP faction emphasizes that this annual elimination of tax holes was one of the government’s most successful decisions. The abolition of the tax regime in free economic zones has become a condition for the implementation of a difficult budget this year, especially its social component. If we want to re-establish a system that, in our view, has nothing to do with the market economy, where someone may not pay taxes, we have to be honest with our electorate that tens of millions of our citizens will pay for the benefit of the chosen. Because the restoration of free economic zones will strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u3	Grigory Bondarenko, Faction Forward Ukraine!, prepare Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u4	Grigory Bondarenko, Kyivščina, Faction “Go Ukraine!”, Block Lithuania. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider this as a question of parliament to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the city head of Kiev, and I would like to draw your attention to the problem that is extremely painful and affects millions of Ukrainian citizens. You all know new things to buy people hard. Many have to repair previously purchased items rather than simply, sometimes impossible, even in the center of Kiev, to repair an electric razor or a vacuum cleaner, sharpen it than there, burn something, and so forth. Is it possible to adjust with clothing and shoes, but under what conditions? In the courtyard of House No. 46, you stand in a chickenhouse, not a workshop, but a dirty pit, and nothing to breathe. I can't believe it's somewhere on the top of Kiev's beauty, its center. But visiting others is indignant. Earrings on a erased belly cost between 10 and 15 grubles, for the entire belly 20-25. It's the same thing with a fashion studio across the street. For the simplest operation, shortening the sleeve of a shirt requires at least 20 bracelets. And the new one costs 32. Why is that so? Because the shoe shop is all over Christian territory and the Swiss workshop is all over it. There are other reasons. To start a business in the yard of 14 houses on Black Army Street, a shoemaker took almost six months to pay, but note only for documents worth more than two thousand dollars. And business didn't open up, it changed. Under such conditions, we cannot wait for the promised five million jobs. I want to be heard by the mayors of the city. We need 30 benefits, maybe 50 percent rent discounts and so on. Today’s work on the State is countering the story of billions more, the financial well - being of the State. In fact, there is nothing to pay for higher pensions and salaries. There's no money for energy, no drugs, no utilities. Even in the prosperous Kiev, the Chernobyl payout was stopped. Unemployment is not decreasing, even on the contrary, and it is increasing. The solution to the problem in the field of services seems even more important in this context. By the way, there's no need for big money here. There's only one thing you need to do is take state action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u5	Yes, thank you. George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. John the Rabbit will speak for Stupak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u6	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, my fellow Members, I want to raise a problem that concerns many of the deputies of the same-mandatory: the allocation of subsidies from the State Budget, the failure to implement investment projects, and the gasification of rural settlements. On 9 September of this year, I again asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the improper financing of investment projects and the prejudice of technological catastrophes in the 203th constituency of the Montenegrin region. I received a reply on October 3 at the signature of Prime Minister Yehanurov, which says that the composition of the Mineconomy objects and those objects that I had submitted on April 14th of this year are less than 70% ready, so there is no funding at this point. It's just bullying our voters. Why was it necessary to collect data in April? Agree to them, conduct them through the budget committee to now, in October, say that there is no actual funding. Yes, when we receive money for these objects. Even if the relevant Cabinet Decision No. 639 of July 20 is reviewed. It's the end of the year. There's no money. People are waiting for them in places to build a school, repair a farm, or similar facility. I hope that the government will respond properly to these appeals, and yet in the near future, these funds will enter the Chernobyl area in general and in the 203 constituency in particular. Because the way we treat our constituents right now, it's just bullying them. The next problem is the computerization of rural schools and the acquisition of school buses for schools. The situation in response to my parliamentary request of September 9th, the answer came on September 29th, and once again, under the signature of Prime Minister Yehanurov, is inconsolable that there is no money for these programs, and the Ministry of Education and Science has a large creditor debt, so at present there is no money. Once budgetary funding continues, the Ministry of Education will provide further computerization of rural schools. But who would care about financing? Isn't that government? Does it turn out to be government in itself and funding in itself? I don't think we should accept that approach. The letter of the Law on the State Budget 2005 must be implemented. The Ukrainian People’s Party requires adequate funding for investment projects in the regions and for computerization of schools in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, Stupak is handing over the right to speak to John the Rabbit. Kafarsky gives Calinchuk, Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u8	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ukrainian People’s Party is concerned about the disheartening state of the fight against corruption and bribery. And that's where all the power came from. Many words, but there was little work to do to eradicate this scourge that terrorized citizens. People’s good is stolen; without bribes, man can take no action. Today, the Supreme Council will hear a report by the head of the Parliamentary Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party expects a thorough analysis of the problem of corruption and the search for effective means of overcoming it. But right now, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party wants to draw your attention to the institutional component of the fight against this evil. We have recently witnessed a war of compromises by the high officials of the new government. The charges against the parties were quite serious -- corruption. But what came of this? Nothing. Only the old authorities, whose hands were created by systematic corruption, were happy about the conflict. They were simply forgotten during this conflict. Why, though, did nothing work out? And because we don't have an institution today to effectively fight corruption. In democratic states, it is not simple for a prosecutor to deal with these issues. And there's a whole institution of special prosecutors. We've been here for 15 years in this room talking about the establishment of a special prosecutor's institute to investigate the corruption of senior officials. And the car is there now. That's how we national MPs want to fight this mob. We don't have the same special investigation committee institute. There aren't even any bills that have laid the groundwork. Again, there's no way to talk to each other, please, what you want to say, and there's no one to investigate. In legislation, we did not introduce whole authorities into the legislative process. Neither does Parliament have the Rules as the Law, so we, as a breather, are in charge of this regulation today. Neither does the Cabinet of Ministers have the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and whoever wants to does it. There is no law on the President of Ukraine that would fit today. So if we don't immediately, in haste, create these institutions, don't provide legislation, there's nothing to talk about what we want to fight, about mafia and corruption. I'm going to say one more problem: I, John the Rabbit, and Jaroslav Jodzik have submitted to the Supreme Council a draft law on the declaration of revenue and expenditure of senior officials of the civil servants of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd categories. What do you think? This bill has been walking the corridors of power for almost a year, and it does not even have a scientific and scientific conclusion on this bill. So if we don't declare expenses, what kind of mafia and corruption can we fight for? Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party insists that we take this matter seriously, create mafia institutions and appropriate legislation. And then you can talk about something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u9	Basil Calinchuk, a faction of the People's Party, then Taras Czarnovil passes on the right to speak to Kruglovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u10	Kalinczuk, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the faction of the People’s Party of Lithuania repeatedly drew the attention of the Government of Ukraine to one of the most important issues in our nation’s functioning of education, health, culture, and other budgetary institutions in the region, especially rural ones. As we know, in the State Budget project in Appendix No.6, the budgetary transfer rate of the grant. and funds transferred to the State budget for inter-state and local budgets are set up to calculate the amount of income that is included in the determination of inter-budget transfers. Grants from the state budget, funds transferred to the state budget, which are generally not applicable to virtually all rural areas. These figures are set by the Ministry of Finance in what is called the formula. Regrettably, the methodology given is not complete, and in many cases, as the interviews at the Supreme Council Committee on Area Budgets have shown, it does not take into account the specificities of rural areas at all, and therefore, as a rule, the calculated amount of income that is set by Appendix Six is too high and the corresponding grant of compensation is determined that there is barely enough funds to pay the salaries of teachers, doctors and employees of other budgetary institutions. Accordingly, no timely payments are made to these facilities for energy, no cost of repairs and maintenance, equipment, and so forth. As an example, in the State budget for the Odessa district of Odessa, which is part of my 144 constituency, income is 19 percent higher in 2006, and the grant is 42 percent lower. According to law enforcement experts, the cost of paying local self - government employees is not taken into account. Health facilities do not provide for the real cost of medicines, food, and equipment. The same in education and culture. The same is true in other rural areas. Why so? In rural areas, most of the population is not gassed, there is no transport connection, there is no telephone service in many villages, no district hospitals, and no ambulances. The solution to these questions requires considerable funds. Therefore, the Budget Committee, along with the Ministry of Finance, has to take this into account when working on the State Budget project. The working group at the head of the Supreme Council, Volodymiri Mikhailovich, led by a member of our faction, Catherine Fomenko, has made concrete proposals for improving the relationship between budgets. I would ask that the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council take this into account and that the National Deputies support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u11	Mikola Kruglov, faction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the National Deputy of Crnrowil with the appropriate statement that he requests his right to speak to Nicholas Kruhl. I announced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u12	Mikola Kruglov, Party of Regions, faction of Ukraine. Honorary colleagues, honourable voters, the Ukrainian Party of Deputies, claim that today the operation of the management of the state-owned VAT firm "Kretelekom" is in grave violation of the Constitution. Following the adoption of Cabinet of Ministers Order 720 of 9.08.05, the leadership of the Shrine sent telegrams to the regions of Ukraine signed by the deputy head of the Government of Orotenek Igor Vasilovic, who indicated that the workers of the field of communication had been deprived of the aid. Moreover, since September 2005, the payment for the apartment phone and the hourly payment for the use of local telephones has begun to be made to veterans on general grounds, regardless of the continuing operation of the State Liaison Committee’s order number 25 of the year 98. The faction of the Ukrainian Region Region Region resents the fact that there was no reaction from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Transport and Communications — the successor of the Statecommunity, which is authorized to provide clarification and regulation of the provision and delivery of telecommunications services. It is right to stress that VAT is a state-owned enterprise. Then his decision could not fail to reach the government’s point of view. On August 9, 2005, the government of Yulia Timoshenko issued a decree approving the rules for the provision and receipt of telecommunications services. According to the document, an income operator who remains at his disposal after tax may fail to make a subscription fee for local telephone services when using a telephone from telecommunications workers and providing postal services that have an appropriate job in these areas. Such an approach is perfectly logical with regard to enterprises of all forms of ownership, but the management of the state of the "Silver" is allogeneic and unacceptable. In other words, there has been a substitution of concepts today, resulting in at least 77,000. Veterans lost their benefits and their constitutional rights were violated. In view of the scale of the threat in Ukraine as a result of the unprofessional actions of a part of the executive branch, the faction of the Ukrainian Region requires that the Cabinet of Ministers order that the VAT requirements for the “Scarletman” be immediately rectified, and that it be applied to its management with a view to returning the benefits to the staff of communications and mail. Please consider the application to be a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u13	There's a statement by Peter Stepanovich Cybenka about the right to address Lechenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich. Please, that's what I'm handing over.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u14	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro A statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the failure of the sowing of ostrich crops. The Ukrainian Communist Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly warned the people and all branches of our country's state authority about the inescapable consequences of anti-national reforms in the agro-industrial complex, which have been imposed by the bourgeois regime of Kravczuk, Kuchma, Yushchenka for the past 14 years. Sadly, the results were not delayed. Ukraine has virtually lost food security, turned from a powerful manufacturer into an importer of essential foods. The continuation of the two most recent nationalist and socialist governments in relation to the village and agriculture has led to the collapse of the sowing of winter crops this autumn. Once the optimal agrotechnical periods have been completed, their area of sowing is one and a half times that of this year. Ukraine faced a real threat to the 2006 bread crisis. This is followed by a sharp rise in prices for bread and other food products, a further decline and so low living standards for workers. This has been made possible by the President's self-removal from addressing the pressing problems of society, by providing business officials with the interests of speculative media structures, and by discriminatory policies towards agriculture on the part of the State. The government has forgotten the social priorities of the village and the agro-industry complex, the promotion of agricultural engineering, the provision of cheap loans to the agricultural sector, subsidies, technology, fertilizers, and other resources. The governments of Yushchenka, Timoshenko, Moroz, Yehanurova, instead of the real help of the village and the protection of our agricultural producer, have been able to manipulate customs tariffs, create artificial crises with fuel, sugar, and meat, and finance agriculture in accordance with the rest principle. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy does not address specific issues of the development of the agro-industry complex; rather, it deals with political demagogies. Uncontrolled by the Cabinet of Ministers, purchase prices for grain and other agricultural products have caused damage and disrupted the economy. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, a peasant has found it unfavourable to cultivate the land. The faction of the Ukrainian Company demands that the bourgeois authorities of nationalists and socialists immediately stop the abuse of the village and agriculture, take up the reconstruction of the destroyed, hold the perpetrators responsible for the collapse of the Agro-industry complex and the collapse of the winter crops in the fall of 2005. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u15	Sergey Ratushniak, please the faction of the People's Party. Prepare the fly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to our President, to millions of citizens who, like me, have been deceived by the thesis of Maidan, and to the world community that has invested a great deal of resources in changing power here in the interest of Victor Andryovich Yushchenka. I want to turn to all of you from the fact that from 1999 to 2001, Drapping suffered from floods and was robbed of tens of millions of dollars by one person who was then the head of the district administration, called Balogah. At that time, the Social Democrat was united and because of his Barva company, which he is now both the director and the founder of all the Carpathians in a year and a year and a year and a half, he received salaries, subsidies, subsidies, products of 300 percent of the value of the market and time-consuming use, as well as flood money that was mostly converted to AZS, hotels, supermarkets, including real estate in Hungary and France. Now, this experience has taken Mr. Balozy to become governor again, but it's already orange to continue to go to the MCS, to move from 10 million blocks to billions of MCS and also to turn them into AHS, supermarkets and their own assets. I would also like to draw your attention to our prefix, which is radiochemical waste, which has been brought to the territory of the Berovian region, the Carpathians. The bribe license, as we know, was given to Victor Balogo by the then governor, today's minister of the Ministry, and what was done by Hydos, then the Social Democrat, and then they were their own brothers in this party. I would also like to point out, Victor Andryovich, that Carpathians are interested in how those who, therefore, cooperated with Mr. Baloga, Mr. Kirol, shot from a machine gun, Mikhailo Tokar, shot from a machine gun, which for his money, by the way, gave you and created Barva, Vasili. – the ex-head of the town of Mukachev, where the flood funds were washed away, was killed, but it was confirmed that he had hanged himself, although he had 8 fractures and his head was wide as his shoulders. Next. Tiger Akopian, who worked with you on the vodka, was shot. Next. Family. A few years ago, who had been involved in cigarette smuggling, both men and women were shot. No murders have been solved. Now this experience of flood control, premixing and co-operation on smuggling -- cigarettes and vodka -- is now needed to lead the MCS. Right now, his brothers and his coven are claiming to be governor of the Carpathians. Long live the Democrats! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u17	Vladimir Muhin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please. You don't? Then it's George Buiko. Buiko's handing over the right to speak to Sergio Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u19	Prepare Stealth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u20	Sergey Gmira, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! For almost a year now, Ukraine has been under the control of an orange horde. I am, of course, far from comparing Victor Yushchenko and Julia Timoshenko with Genghishan and Bati, we are far from comparable. But this does not make the fight against the orange-ordinary yoke less relevant. I am firmly convinced that on 3 October of this year, it will be an important milestone in the chronicles of this struggle of our people. On 3 October, the Communist Front of Lugansk was established in Luhansk. Here I am in this congregation, where half the people who couldn't fit into this huge hall had not entered this hall, and a front like this was created. I would like to point out that, dear comrades, this is the situation. The Communists proposed to name the Left Front of Lugansk. But the representatives of the 45th, and now the 50 non-communist organizations that entered this front, demanded that it be called the Communist Front of Lugansk. Since all the parties except the Communists who call themselves left today, they each entered a separate oligarchy den. The left front of Luganskina, the Communist Front of Lugansk, as an integral part of the left front of Ukraine, will never compromise with that authority. He will never support the corrupt orange power that came to Kiev for American money and for the money of his great friend, the international con artist Boris Berezowski. He would never support the Government of Nationalists and Socialists, which had been ruled by the votes of a party in the regions. This opposition will never sign memoranda with the current authority to divide the spheres of influence, whether it is unconditional to capitulate in return for personal security and property security assurances. This will be the real opposition that will fight against this regime. So please remember, dear colleagues, this day is October 3rd. The sun always rises in the east. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u21	Yes, Strebko, please, the "Go Ukraine!" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u22	Stanislav Strobko, 139 district, Odessa district, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We all understood the role of the economic basis for Ukraine's continued development and its integration into the European world society. In turn, the state of the base and its capacity to provide social services and other institutions of the State depends largely on the state of the basic production funds and their ability to restore them at the right time, to stimulate businesses, to reduce tax payments for all those who generate material benefits in the country. And here we are, unfortunately, thoroughly and together, witnessing that the tax system, instead of regulatory and stimulating functions, is acting as a oppressive factor that inhibits the development of production. In April 2003, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to make 15 percent of the profits made in government and treasury enterprises attributable to the budget. State enterprises sighed bitterly, pulled up their belts, and lost their overall lives, and endured that blow. The impact is that the possibilities for development and restoration of the fund have been reduced by 1.6. The new government of Ukraine seems to have set itself a goal of establishing a record of decommissioning profits. On January 15, 2005, Kabin, by decree No. 50, imposed the removal of 50 percent of the profits derived from the activities of a community of state and casino enterprises. This is a decision that cuts in the laws of Ukraine on businesses, on property, on income, on taxation. Thus, at the Ilchiv Seaport, between 50 and 85 per cent of the core fund is used for the benefit of the Ilchiv Sea Trade Port, and the cost of rebuilding and repairing it was between 3 million and 6 million, and in 2003, 2004 and in the current year, 25 and 32 million dollars. At this time, the company is looking for loans, investments, and so forth. Although in general it would be possible not only to keep their incomes in order, but also to develop according to promising plans, self - income calculations. The decision to delete a portion of the income is not equal to the fact that the government places enterprises of various forms of property in a situation that violates the provisions of the Constitution, the Code of Lords. I would like to point out that this elimination of profits is definitely not allowed in transport companies, primarily seaports, which are strategic objects, tolerances, and control over which foreign investors are not desirable. And changing the form of ownership is not possible. Realizing that the calendar year ends three months later and today it's too late to change anything about it, I'm addressing the national MPs, the central authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time taken we have already spent more than twice to announce requests, statements, messages. Two factions, please. The two factions, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko in accordance with the Rules require a 30 - minute recess. So maybe you can make a statement about that right away. Please. A statement? Please. Rudzkowski will make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, journalists, citizens! In the walls of the Supreme Council, there are many words that speak correctly about the protection of human rights, the desire to become a European, a democratic state. But yesterday's session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe showed that we are not yet considered a civilized state and politicians in Europe. And the more often the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litwin, will travel to Europe without redwashing the lie in the face of the European MPs, the less confidence the Europeans have in Ukrainian democracy. PACE’S decision proved to be offensive to Ukraine. Europeans do not believe in Ukrainian democracy, in Ukrainian justice, in openly and honestly making known the names of the organizers of the murder, George Gongadze. And we know that if it wasn't for the tragedy of Georgia that struck Ukraine, we wouldn't have had an orange revolution and a victory. Litwin told all over Europe that the records of conversation in Leonidas Kuchma's office were not reliable. For five years, the same was confirmed by the old Qutshma authorities. This is a disgrace to Ukraine because five years ago, in the whole world, the apparent involvement of Kuchma and Lithuania in serious crimes was required by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The leading international experts, the U.S. FBI, the Ukrainian Security Service have confirmed the authenticity of the records, where Lithuania is discussing with Kuchma how to shut their mouths to an innocent person and how to hide crimes. Me and my socialist friends, we demanded and require only one to have Gongadze's case brought to trial as soon as possible. Let the court decide who the contracting party, who the organizer, who the contractor, how the recording was made, what was the motivation of those involved in the crime. So that no one can speculate on this long-standing matter during the election. But Litwin is afraid of the court. At first, the dealers dismembered George’s body, and now under pressure, the Attorney General’s Office has divided the Gongadze case into several episodes and is going to judge only the perpetrators of the criminal order. This disgraceful decision was strongly condemned by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And while I have to go to the Supreme Council for slander and for the false newspaper of the People's Party. Mr. Litwin said he was ready to sue me. Beautiful. I just want Litwin not to be afraid, not hide behind the lawyers, but come to the meetings myself. The materials of the Security Service, the materials of the Attorney General's Office, should be presented in court. The leading experts will be invited. Perhaps this court will be a prelude to the Georgia Gongadze trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's keep working, you understand the political eunuchs, they don't know what to do next. I want to say that my fellow Members, I have every reason to report on my stay, my stay and my performance in the Council of Europe. I want to inform you responsiblely that this hysteria was being prepared so that I wouldn't be afraid and go to Strasbourg, and then there was a reason to blame him for not leaving because he was afraid of the case. I was welcomed, although some of our colleagues were doing the right job and agreed to accuse me of not allowing President PARJE to speak in the session room. And you know what happened. And so they asked me not to be spoken to in this room. But, dear fellows, once again, I want to tell you all, obviously everything has become clear to all that this hysterical, these attacks that are being demonstrated today, are evidence that they are very close to those that have organized the case. And that you have to answer. I've been accused of being illegally elected Head of the Supreme Council, but I'd like to remind you then of the illegality of 226 votes and less than 170 votes for one person when the vote was taken, and quite another difference. And let's be honest about this. Hysterics won't help you. And when they claim that the Security Service has already established the truth, I feel as if some are in charge of the Security Service, not the Security Service. Where did these statements come from? Where did these statements come from? I'd also like to ask your colleagues to arrange for the commission you set up yesterday to take a quiet look and identify who arranged the hearing of Kuchma's office? Who, in which apartment, and this is set up by the investigation, since September 18th, please remind me that on September 16th, Gongadze disappeared, no one knew, but on September 16, one file was formatted until October 5th. This has been fairly established, and the other has been formatted until October 15. Why and for what purpose? And the truth will certainly be established and where we need to meet. But in the third election, there will be no possibility to build a company on this issue and dance to tragedy. Two factions require: The People's Party – Draga signed, and “Go ahead Ukraine!” also half an hour for a break and the right to speak. Who will speak from you? They have the right to do so, please calm down and read the Rules. It's not me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's me, it's
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, my statement may be brief, but I will say it specifically. I would like to refer to those members of the Commission who were approved yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 335 votes and to Rudzikowski. You are a member of our commission today, and no one has given you the right to speak on this matter today, because we are only going to hold our first meeting on the 3rd floor at 12 o'clock. And to allocate responsibilities and powers among the members of the Commission on certain matters. Let us therefore be tolerant in this regard. And if I'm in charge, I'm in charge. And believe me, it's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u27	It's being announced. Your last name wasn't yours. Calm down. There was no last name. Calm down, dear fellows. A draft law on the order of forced alienation of privately owned property objects is being announced for consideration. [[Nationalization]] These are Laws No. 7701, No. 7701-1. Such a rule is proposed, dear colleagues. Reporters should be given up to five minutes, answers to questions within three minutes, statements from the committee to three minutes, and a 15-minute discussion. There's no objection. Please report by Mikola Rudzkowski. Bill 7701.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u28	I wanted to say a brief line to the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u29	Please turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u30	Thank you. So I was speaking on behalf of the faction, not. But he had the same idea. This means that the law on the order of forced alienation of private property objects to the property of the State is 7,001. According to 41 articles of the Constitution, the compulsory alienation of private property objects can be applied as an exception to the motivation for social necessity on the basis and in the order established by law. And so we need to adopt a law that would give the state the opportunity, in a difficult situation, to bring a public object back to the state’s property. We offer a proven, complex mechanism based on world experience, including Great Britain, for the return of some enterprises to the field, including shipbuilding. The mechanism proposed by the following person, who makes a decision on a particular subject, then meets the National Security Council, discusses the matter, makes a positive decision, submits a bill to the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council makes a decision. And only after full compensation from the State Budget will the object be owned by the State. It seems to me that the adoption of such a law, by the way, does not seem only to me, but also to the property experts, will allow for the guarantee that ownership in Ukraine will only move on legal grounds. I don't understand the people's deputies who are firm against the adoption of this law, because this law clearly states that only under this law can property pass to the state and no other way. We're seeing a lot of trials going through right now. We see that sometimes the courts do not make decisions under pressure and so on. All of this will be legalized, it will provide guarantees for investors that they will be confident that they can invest in Ukraine and have property in Ukraine, which is protected by law. And when property is transferred to the state, there is a clear established procedure. On the other hand, in matters of social necessity, the State will have the opportunity to restore an object to state ownership. I gave an example during my previous consideration. If there is a natural disaster in some region, such as in the United States, in Orleans, whether we have snow or freezing, Oblenergo has ceased to function because of the downfall of both the towers and the power grids. The state is considering this issue at a government meeting. President, the Supreme Council has made a decision. They bought into government property, thus ensuring the vitality of the entire region. Failure to enact this law does not guarantee that ownership will not be taken or returned to state property in any other way, by making judicial decisions. But this does not protect, again, the nonadmission of the law from a certain period of time from any personal decision of an official. I think that the adoption of this law is a guarantee for both the Ukrainian investor and the external investor. And frankly, I don't understand the factions that don't support it. First of all, this is an article of the Constitution. On the other hand, it guarantees ownership for all citizens in Ukraine. If you are standing on the issue of property protection, accept the law. If you want chaos, which has been in Ukraine for some time, let's leave everything as it is. But I'm sure the law makes everyone more comfortable. Thank you. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u31	If you have any questions, please sign up, dear colleagues. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u32	Dear reporter, well, you're saying that your Law provides for nationalization when there are some extreme conditions for it. And please tell me, do you, as a socialist party representative, not notice that our country is now practically living in extreme conditions for 15 years? There's nothing normal about us. We have, as far as we live, we exist on our own, we have extreme conditions all the time. So wouldn't it be better for you to give up this position at all as an extreme condition and support the Bill of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka in general to conduct nationalization and even illegally acquired enterprises in the basic sectors of the national economy? So, as a representative, I would like to stress once again to you the Socialist Party, which declares this position in its programme?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. It's hard not to agree with you. Indeed, the period of instability and privatization sometimes undermined trust on one hand in the State and on the other hand in the people who acquired ownership. Me and our faction support the position that we need to have a real mechanism for returning to state ownership of strategic objects, is meant to mean, I think you're in that position. You won't nationalize the laurels. But if we're talking about adopting such a law, then, from my point of view, we need to move in two ways: on the one hand, we need to adopt the Law on the Situation of the Great Community Need, which I propose. And on the other hand, we need to adopt the Law, a separate law that would consider the possibility of a return to the State of Strategic Enterprises. I think that's going to be a tough law to pass in the session room right now. Perhaps if the Socialists and Communists in the Supreme Council were 250 people, then the matter could be considered. In the meantime, we can only consider what is possible: the adoption of a law on the return to state property, based on social necessity, at one time or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u34	Vladimir Bronikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u35	Bronnikov, Party of Ukraine. Little question: Will Minchaes be able to manage the crisis situations that have been discussed in the Hall? And the second. May I have another question, Pecklusenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u36	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u37	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of “Regions”, Zaporozska oblast. Nikolai Nikolaevich, first: do you think this law will improve the investment climate in the country or make it worse? Second question. There is no person in this room who does not consider that anything illegally privatized must be returned. But where does the President come from, Parliament? This is decided by the courts all over the world. Maybe it's better to improve the legislation? Perhaps it is better to improve the work of the courts? Today it is a caste of untouchables, today justice is being done in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u38	Alexander Mikolaiovich, this is about adopting a law that, this law, which will set clear legal rules as to how property is passed. Because, really, I agree with you that sometimes decisions are made in the judiciary that are hard to justify, until it reaches the Supreme Court. And that's why I think that the adoption of this law will improve the much-investment climate in Ukraine, because it will only be possible to return to government property under this procedure and no other. Because the Constitution states that if this law is involved, the 41st article of the Constitution says that it is only by this procedure that property can be returned to the State if there is law. If there is no law, then this part of the 41 articles of the Constitution does not work. And that's why they're coming back because of the decisions of the courts and so on. You look at more than, let's say, not so long ago even the Ministry of Economics has opposed this law of getting a state mechanism in order not to have a legitimate mechanism of return to state ownership. So I think the adoption of this law will remove all the issues that now exist, eventually bring about a legal order. The courts will be governed by the law, not by anything else, a violation of the procedure and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u39	Yeah, time's up. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please give your reasons for Bill 7701-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Nine months later, an orange mist disintegrated, and a white and blue soapy bride burst. At the same time, the rest of our people’s hopes for a return to justice in society have also been shattered. The timing of this issue and the project I have put forward is also caused by new threats for Ukraine: the first is funding by the United States of America and the Berezov electoral campaign and today the election of the President and his team in power, the government as a puppeteer's team. Secondly, the transnational clans -- the Berezovsky-Colomy-Timoshenko -- are actually influencing the economy and politics today. Today, a new threat has also arisen because the new authorities are preparing pre-sale preparations for Ukraine’s economic space and are proposing to privatize the Odessa Porting Plant, the Skretelek railway. Today, the issue of “Cruvoristal” and many other objects are not being considered. In conspiracies with Ukrainian and foreign oligarchs, prices have been sharply raised, and all this policy has been used to continue to destroy the economic sovereignty and independence of our state. Conclusion: The sale of national interests to Ukraine today once again poses a real threat to national security and the independence of the state. In order to stop talking about political independence and transition to real economic sovereignty and from wild capitalism to social state, I suggested that we consider today a project on the nationalization of basic industries. The savvy plots, as you know, respected friends in conspiracies with the leaders of the IMF programmes and under the direction of Americans in accordance with the appearance, so-called, radical market reforms, have taken advantage of the credibility of the population and the imperfections of the legislative base and the thieves through inflation, certification, voucheration, artificial bankruptcy have committed an affair of the millennium, illegally privatized state property – the general acquisition of the people of Ukraine. As a result, 90 percent of the nation’s property is in the hands of the so - called new Ukrainians, who make up not more than one and a half percent of the population. They usurped 85 percent of the major production funds, which produce more than 80 percent of their industrial production. From such privatization to the State budget, a little over 9 billion dollars have been paid, and the principal means of production have been stolen for more than 60 billion dollars. I mean, you and I have really faced the problem of losing our nation's economic independence. This has led the vast majority of the population, 90 percent, to be outside the poverty line. What are the reasons, and what are the reasons for the urgency of this law? It's illegal to assign public property to private individuals. Another reason. The need for nationalization in view of the fact that the illegal concentration of property rights on the basis of industry in the hands of a limited number of private persons poses a threat to political independence in general. The third reason. The need for nationalization is also due to the fact that illegal privatization has dropped Ukraine to 20-30 years, or 50-60 years. The fourth reason. This is the poverty of our people. There are many reasons for this. What we Communists offer to do. First of all, we are proposing to understand that this is not about nationalization of areas of service, trade, light, food and other industries, but, first of all, those that are part of the list of basic industries. In my opinion, progressive is just a nationalization that is not only driven by the need to develop productivity, but also carried out in the interests of the whole of society, that is, the people of Ukraine. And that's the key to our project. We're proposing to society through the nationalization of the creation of an independent public acquisition fund, a real social project, a new socio-economic development strategy that takes into account the interests and interests of society and each individual. All the other options and offers of our political opponents are based on private-owned exploitation of the basic industry, socially unfair and pillaging. You can't talk bitterly about the processes that happened to Ukraine after the capture of the national acquisition of ours is the basic industry. That's why we're proposing nationalization to restore ownership to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u41	Yes, dear colleagues, questions to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. If there is, please sign in. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u42	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Petr Nikolaevich, the principle position of your law is understandable to all and is particularly supported by specialists, economists. Today, the filling of Ukraine's budget is a major problem, and everyone knows that large industrial enterprises, the steel industry in particular, are the main contributor of the budget. But we've just heard the bill Rudzkowski passed. On the other hand, the question is also nationalization, the return of the State, but for money. Do you not think that the approach, when businesses previously illegally privatized for money are returned, is an absurd situation? Any owner of a large enterprise leads to bankruptcy and then raises the legal question of the return of the business to the State. Do you feel that such an approach is wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Our position as communists is that, when we begin to implement the law on nationalization, if we accept it in order for the national indivisible fund to establish the foundations of the State's economic independence. The first thing we're going to do is we're going to do an inventory. How was privatized property used? We were told for 14 years that they were effective owners and that the light upon which the Soviet power stood, which all that the Soviet people earned returned: housing, prices, tariffs, everything returned to the people, i.e. to a man of material value. Therefore, inventory should be carried out and the effectiveness of the use of the new owners of this good people should be determined naturally. That's the first one. Secondly, through property inventory, it is necessary to determine whether all the conditions that have been established have been met, whether we like or not the previously adopted laws, in terms of investment programmes. First of all, from the point of view of strengthening our independence, new technologies, imported or not, new equipment, whether this is the object that makes it possible today - jobs for young people, opportunities - jobs for a Chernobyl, for a disabled person, provides an opportunity to support social programmes today, provides an opportunity to approve today, not in a shadow economy, but works in a transparent economy of an independent State of Ukraine. At the same time, it creates all the prerequisites for enhancing Ukraine's economic potential. This is a key, second question on which we will rely before we commit ourselves to the implementation of this law. And third. It is certainly necessary, through the will of the people and the will of the people to elect deputies, to determine what is today the target of national interests, national security. The chemical enterprise, I am deeply convinced that they are different, of course, one toy company makes and is called a chemical enterprise, which is an enterprise that produces strategic raw materials, provides an opportunity to provide national interests outside Ukraine. Here we must have, first of all, national interests through public, public property, because it is ecology, it is human health, it is exploitation or, so to speak, normal work. We must understand today that nationalization is also needed in order to preserve social programmes for the protection of human rights today. Because there are seven hours of working for the owner and one hour of working for the current business. This is what must be done today because of what we would like to return to the State, to the people of Ukraine, to create the prerequisites that these are jobs for a person. This is an opportunity for the development of small and medium-sized businesses today. Indeed, small and medium-sized businesses will only develop when they work for the people of Ukraine, not for the benefit of a certain oligarch. And around a large enterprise, the core enterprise will necessarily be implementing State infrastructure development programmes. In this, small and medium-sized business will find its niche stable, protected by the State, without the mockery of the law enforcement system and the mockery of the judiciary. It's a whole complex. Dear Alla Alexandrovna, you asked the right question. It is no coincidence that you have correctly defined the notion that specialists and scientists support exactly the state approach that we, Communists today offer to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u45	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Please sit down. The report invites the Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u46	Committee, I'm asking you to increase my time a little. Because they're two bills, they're different.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u47	Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u48	The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 21 September 2005, reviewed the draft Law on the Return of Property of the Basic People's Industry, which is owned by citizens and legal persons, property of the Ukrainian people. Registration number 7701-1. And the draft Rudzikowski Act on the enforcement of private property rights to the property of the State of Nationalization was introduced by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Rudzkowski. First of all, as a result of the vote, which had practically split the committee into two parts, and one and the other draft legislation was proposed by the Committee to be rejected. Although the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, proposes to adopt draft law 7701-1 as a basis for its first reading and subsequent integration in the second reading into a single draft with draft 7701. What is the essence of such differences? During the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting, the opinion of the people's deputies was literally divided into two parts. In their statements, members of the Committee recognized that the State to date had virtually lost control of most enterprises, entire basic industries such as energy, coal, steel, machinery, military, defence industry, construction, chemical and sugar industries. As a result, as we see today, the State has developed a situation where the monopoly dictates its prices directly and inconceivably. The refinery's enterprises are almost at the same time becoming repairs, fuel prices are rising. Sugar prices are suddenly increasing several times and so on. Privatization of public property has neither improved the efficiency of the use of property nor increased the standard of living of people. Privatization in Ukraine took place without regard to the strategy for the protection of national public interests. How can a State influence such a situation? Under existing legislation, almost none. There are no relevant laws. Today, only through means of nationalization, i.e., the redemption of factories into State influence, through government orders and through public policy can the problems of the State now exist. This was the way the progressive thinking part of the committee considered the bill. The difference in legislation is that if the bill proposed by the People's Deputies Simonenko, Sirenko, Tkachenko, the Communist faction allows justice to be respected, i.e., the return to the common property of individuals and groups of persons who have been illegally allocated. It prevents illegal, unjust, illegal concentration of property on the basic sectors of the population in the hands of a limited number of individuals. Allows the financial and financial framework for the existence of an oligarchy in Ukraine to be eliminated. Allows the State to concentrate material and financial resources, to combat poverty radically in Ukraine and to improve the material well-being and quality of life of citizens. It guarantees the prospects for Ukraine's development and the ability to realize its political, economic and national sovereignty. Allows the flow of capital to be stopped, the mass flow of capital abroad, and the investment of domestic production. All these values of the bill, which were proposed by communists Simonenko, Tkachenko and Sirenko, are not in the draft law proposed by Rudzkowski today. This bill is aimed at strengthening oligarchs and maintaining oligarchic groups. Therefore, these two main differences between the two draft laws led to a heated discussion at the Committee on Economic Policy. Regrettably, the committee had decided to reject both bills. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u49	Vladimir Josephovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed to take 15 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? Please put the name of the national MPs who signed up to participate in the debate. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u50	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, radio listeners! Today, before the beginning of the main session, you've heard about the number of MPs we have in the country. And it's not just today. It's twice a week, and it's all those who have contributed to all of this, that we have these problems, and they're all saying the facts that we have. At first we thought it was such a failure that Kravchuk led the country. Then they thought it was the corruption of Kuchma. Then they all went out to Midan. They went to Midan and went with the bants, and the orange pens brought in another authority, and it turned out to be the same and there was absolutely no improvement. What, then, is the reason for all these problems that we have? At first glance, good plans were made by Ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko, the President, who would lower fuel prices, lower prices for meat, but you can see what this is leading to, she gave a feedback, and vice versa, prices went up even more. Why did this happen? And because the state, not the Cabinet of Ministers, not the President, has no influence on all the processes that are going on in our country. You see, you said you were going to build a new state-owned oil refinery. People were good, but we had five of those factories. Of them, and powerful ones like Cremenchuck and Lysician, they were stolen for nothing, and now there's an idea in the new power, let's build a new factory. Well, if that's smart, it's not smart. So we can see what this is all about. You're not getting much of what the government doesn't get, but we all know very well and already in the media at all levels they're finding that the forgery will be complete. But what we do is we put it in our private hands. So in order to solve all the issues that we talk about every day, we need the basic sectors of agriculture to be state property. We're constantly equal to Europe, at all times, all of Europe's world structures. And let's see, we're talking about the Swedish model of socialism, but in Sweden, 65 percent of the basic sectors are owned by the state and only 35 percent are privately owned. Why are we not following the example of Sweden? So, dear friends, if we're not talking, but we really want the good of our long-suffering Ukrainian people, we need to vote in favour of Bill 7701-1. Authors Simonenko, Tkachenko, Sirenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u51	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u52	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The objective and comprehensive assessment of the current state of the economy, the social sphere, the population of processes in the country, gives the right to a clear conclusion, in the country of national and state catastrophe. Under the dictatorship of American uncles, the most powerful industrial potential and highly developed agriculture are being criminalized. Total privatization, against which Communists, businesses, and industries are constantly taking sides, which are strategically important for national security, has led to a sharp weakening of the country’s economic potential. The state is practically alienated from economic governance, and its functions take over the oligartic clans that are close to the Head of State by deceiving the people with wicked slogans, the construction of a democratic legal state of Europe. The average citizens should be convinced that privatization is treason to the public. Which caused a few billion dollars worth of damage. For example, since 1992, the entrances to privatization have changed the form of ownership of 90 percent of enterprises. Since the privatisation of the state-owned property of 600 billion dollars into the state budget, only about 6 billion dollars have been made, and the rest have gone to the pockets of today's patriots, who cannot be reconciled in any way, that one has less and more harmful consequences of privatization are incomparable, even with the losses caused by German-Fashistic invaders. [[in quotes]] Where it is evident that in such and once powerful Soviet Ukraine, gross domestic product will fall by 60 percent in eight years. Similar proportions of the economic disaster in peacetime were unknown to no country in the world. We Communists are constantly fighting this criminal privatization. And we propose a specific strategic programme for the recovery of the country’s economy, and we demand that a number of strategic objects be immediately nationalized that are absorbed by international sharks at speculative prices. And it's enough for the State Property Fund to be beautiful on TV screens to get to specific things. For reasons of social necessity, as required by article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, it is necessary to regulate the relationship between forced alienation of private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u53	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party, prepare for Seminozi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u54	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, we are considering two bills. The only thing that bothered me was when the author of the first one, Rudzkowski, said that they could actually be combined, and if there were more communists and socialists, something would start with ownership in the state to help us all. I personally read both laws, and I can say that they are conceptually opposite. And if Act No. 7701-1, authored by Simonenko, Tkachenko and Sirenko, is fully understood because the party has a clear position. Law No. 7701, which is sponsored by Rudzkowski, has raised several questions for me and I would like to share with you. First, and most principled. It seems to me that the bill, which was quite right here, expressed the opinion that was discussed on the Committee, represents an oligarchic approach, that is, the approach of those who already have large property and, accordingly, try to protect that property, despite the fact that the Law allegedly indicates that this property may be prohibited. Let me give you some examples. First. The conditions under which property may be taken from the owners in the interest of the State are specified. Of course, it's military action, it's natural disasters and everything else, which is, in principle, understandable. But look, there is absolutely no reason why, for example, and what has been said when buying such large objects. It is the preservation of jobs, the development of the social and residential sphere, respectively, the recovery, the recovery of children, health, education, all that these enterprises, when they were public, brought to people living, not only the workers but also those living in the region. Unfortunately, the Law that Rudzkowski is proposing does not. It is understandable that this bill is not intended to benefit the people of these territories from whose hands these enterprises are in. I have to say that, in a similar way, in general, it is possible to say that it is the reason. For example, seizure of facilities if the owner has property claims. I can explain to you how it's going to be the Owner who's going to make a debt to the state, defraud the business, then say it, and now take this mess away, because I can answer to you, and the money will go off. Therefore, I think that when we speak of 7701, the author of which is Rudzkowski, this bill cannot be considered. The expert, scientific and expert board was absolutely correct in saying that the bill could not be taken as a basis. In general, speaking of this, it may be worth listening to the opinion of the Committee, which said that both bills should be postponed, developed a common approach and that the approach should already be taken in the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u55	Anatoly Seminoga, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u56	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. The need for adoption of such a law is evident. It is due to a lack of legislation in Ukraine that regulates the procedure for the return of private property to the State. In the meantime, article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be used as an exception to the grounds of social necessity and on the basis and order established by law and provided that they have been compensated in advance and in full. It should be noted that a list of the reasons given in these bills for violating the nationalization procedure is not sufficient to take account of its exclusive impact on the functioning of the economy. So the nationalization procedure should be more perfectly prescribed. Moreover, bills do not provide for any responsibility of authorized public authorities, whereas even a violation of the nationalization procedure can cause a financial crisis. At the same time, the rights of owners are not guaranteed that, together with the lack of a clear formulation of grounds for nationalization, additional uncertainty will be added to the economic sphere. Note also the article 4 of the Rudzkowski Bill, which states that if the nationalization goal requires the application of exclusive rights. The State has the right to exercise such rights without permission from the Lord of Rights. Such formulation, without any clear indication of the substance of exclusive rights in the future, could lead to the excess of the powers of the public authorities. Article eight, which regulates the payment of compensation to the owner of the nationalization object, is determined by a separate line in the State Budget, which provides for nationalization expenditure, is classified. Such a form is contrary to the requirements of budgetary legislation and the requirements of international law for disclosure. The questions raised in the bills are very important. And such a law must be passed for our nation. At the same time, both bills are actually underworked. And we support the position of the committee, and we propose that we send both bills for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u57	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u58	Crimea, Mironenko. Respectable deputies. I think you will agree with me that there are no questions for the people of Ukraine who have suffered from universal privatization, especially from the privatization of the strategic sectors of the economy, to support the Bill of Petr Nikolaevich Simonenko, Tkachenko, Sirenko or not to support it. The people are convinced that a bill on the nationalization of strategic sectors of the economy must be supported. Is there a legal basis? Yeah. Article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution emphasizes this possibility. That's more. There are the following words. The use of property cannot harm the rights, freedoms and dignity of citizens. As much trouble as this universal privatization, in particular the privatization of strategic areas of the economy, I think nothing has brought anything to the people. And all freedoms, freedoms, rights — the right to work, the right to normal human life — are violated for the vast majority of the population. Do we have experience abroad in nationalization? Sure. That's what we've already said, and in Italy we've nationalized electricity because Electricity, the strategic sector, the basic industry works for the whole economy, for the whole population. This was also nationalization in Britain, and in France, in all developed countries. This experience can be used as quickly as possible. I don't agree with those MPs who say let's postpone. Yes, please remember. How long can the adoption of the bill be delayed? The people demand of you, from each of you peoples, the peoples of Ukraine, if you are truly peoples. Support this bill, strictly necessary to the people! And if you say to those who want to appeal purely economic concepts, at least consider that strategic industries produce products that are included in all prices, in all tariffs. And if we accept this bill, this will allow us to develop all sectors of the economy, because, you know, the same shipbuilding industry, why does it need State support? Because now for all prices, the tariffs are huge. The shipbuilding industry cannot, let alone other industries, be more science-related. Dear People's Deputies, each of you, all factions, I ask that if you are the People's Deputies, vote. And I call upon you, dear fellow countrymen, to control: as every faction has voted, every national MP. And if they support it, it's a national MP, if they don't, all right, they express the interests of the oligarchs, the interests of the thieves who robbed, robbed and robbed the people if the law does.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u59	Honorable national MPs, discussing draft laws on the order of forced alienation of private property belonging to the State, nationalization has been completed. Time's up. With three minutes of motivation, please write it down. I beg you not to scream, please. Eight people are enrolled, but not all will be able to speak. We finished the discussion. With a motive, please. Where? Oh, Andrew Polit, the Communist faction. Then there's Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u60	Thank you. Andrey Pollit, Company faction. May I have the floor to Lechchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u61	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u62	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I call on all MPs to support the bill of the leader of the Communist Party, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Indeed, the people of Ukraine have been robbed in the last 14 years of thoughtless privatization. All that was built, well, such a triumphant, honest work, was taken away and found in the hands of a bunch of oligarch privatizers. We need to nationalize those enterprises and those sectors that make profits first, and in order to fill the State budget, in order to develop our economy and solve all the social issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u63	Vladimir Bronnikov, Ukraine, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, our task with you is to ensure a normal, natural economy in Ukraine, an economy that would ensure the economic security of each of us, the economic security of the Power, the environmental security of each of us, the environmental security of the Power, an economy that would prolong life. These laws don't take that into account. There is a concept of “accidental planning”. These laws do not take that into account. The responsibility of the person who led the enterprise to environmental poverty is not taken into account. And the pathetic ones we've heard a lot over the past year. The “Regions” faction therefore calls on all not to vote in favour of any law, to send them to the finalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u65	Basil Nadrag, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u66	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Our faction fully shares the view of the fact that there is a problem and needs to be addressed. On the other hand, we also agree that the approaches proposed give rise to a lot of doubts. In particular, a bill that we cannot simply support, the author of which is Rudzkowski. Well, in fact, this is an attempt at an oligarchic approach: on the one hand, to talk about the fates of the people, and on the other hand, to quietly protect property and not to legally allow the interests of the people working in those enterprises to be taken into account, what I talked about from the rostrum, to protect them and to work for them accordingly. Therefore, the bill, which Rudzkowski is the author of, cannot be supported, I will repeat it again because support for the oligarchic approach is not a national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u67	Yes, Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u68	Mikola Melnik, a socialist faction. Of course, our job is to ensure the growth of the economy. The problem is, of course, but we need to support the bill. I'd like the last few seconds left to give to Síkko Vitalia Jakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u69	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u70	Thank you, Mikolo Eutychyevich. A fast, socialist faction. Sadly, I was unable to ask a question to my colleague Matthew when he informed the committee. There was said to be a progressive part of the committee and there is, so I realized, another part, it wasn't named. So I'd like to know, what's that nonprogressive part, that's my saying, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. And I think that the project that was proposed under the heading of one, it has to be consistent with the Constitution, because then we have to change constitutional positions, and that's what we have to predict in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u71	Yes, dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. What? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Stepan Ilkovich is the last speaker, despite the fact that the time for the performances has ended, and the time has stopped before you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u72	Ukrainian National Party, Stephen Cloud. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the Ukrainian People's Party is in favour of such a law, but it must be a full-fledged law, which must be rejected by the principles of national security and national interest, rather than be demagogic and utopic, as proposed by the Communists and not by the Socialist Party's representative. I'll just take a moment to pay attention. For example, one of the reasons for nationalization is illegal privatization. Ladies and gentlemen, if illegal privatization, criminal privatization, is not necessary, but it is necessary to confiscate those who have broken the law, to be punished in accordance with the Criminal Code. It's all in order, just to enforce these laws. That's why the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The authors ask for the closing word to be given. Please, Rudzkowski, then Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, if there is a law, then all work by law: both courts and officials and law enforcement officers. If there is no law, each one acts out of his own sight and interests. And I believe that the adoption of a law that gives a clear understanding of privatization, strategic objects in crisis situations, will enable Ukraine to live, first, more securely, and owners to be more protected. I am convinced that a bill should also be supported that would allow for the return of strategic objects to the state proposed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. This is another mechanism that gives Ukraine the possibility of a legal mechanism for the transfer of ownership to the state again. Lawlessness.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u75	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, microphone, please. Will you be from the rostrum? Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! I want to thank you very much for expressing your thoughts. The other one. I urge you to be superior in making decisions for your own interests and to stand in positions of state. Third. I would like to invite colleagues from the Ukrainian People's Party to stand in the position of true patriots of the Communists and, first of all, to protect the future of Ukraine, to leave something for our young people, for children and grandchildren, so that they can live in our country, because joining the WTO will ultimately destroy our independence with you. And last, fourth. I urge all of you today to consider that the main problem of this law is to protect the state and state. The land of March, as promised by President Yushchenka, will begin to sell the government of nationalists and socialists, factories and factories have been stretched out, and where is the state? The people do not have what is in the sense of statehood, their property does not exist. That is why I call upon the honourable ones to defend the interests of the people of Ukraine and the State to accept the project we are proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The first is Project 7701, by Rudzikowski. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Forced Deprivation of Private Property Property Property. [[Nationalization]] Registration number 7701, by Mikola Rudzkowski. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:16:36]] For-34 Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Please, by the factions. Come on. The Communist faction, the Ukrainian People's Party - Zero, the People's Party - 2, Our Ukraine - 0, Block Timoshenko - 2, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - Forward Ukraine! - Zero, SDPU, Reforms and Order, One Ukraine - Zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, NDP, Labour Ukraine - 1, non-fractional - 2. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 77-1 on the return of property of the basic sectors of the national economy, which are owned by citizens and legal persons, to the property of the Ukrainian people, to nationalization. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:17:43]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Communists – 56, “Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 2, SPI – 14, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Go, Ukraine!” - 3, SDPU (o), One Ukraine, Reforms and Orders, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, National Movement of Ukraine, NDP "Trudova Ukraine" - 0 and non-fractional - 3. So, respectable colleagues. Wait a minute! So if there's no other proposal from the committee. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the committee if the committee proposes, we'll send for the first reading again, we'll propose, no, we'll take it off. Then. Committee, please. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u78	We propose a draft law that has gained more votes and that is supported by the Scientific and Expert Office to re-read.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u79	I'm proposing to the committee to re-read the draft law, registration number 7701-1. Please vote. [[12:19:14]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, according to our agreement, we must now consider the report. May I have your attention, please? Report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption Since we have about 15 hours to complete the consideration of the question, it is thus proposed So it's suggested, at 13, excuse me, that something should be moved for about half an hour, at least, from different angles. Then we'll make up, let's say, by 2:30, by 13. Dear colleagues, I'm making an offer. Thus, it would be possible to do so. For the head of the committee, as the report has already been given, there are now a number of new moments, and the head of the committee would like to focus on them, let's say within 15-20 minutes, the answers to the questions are up to 10 minutes. For reports, since there are no reports to the report, as provided by law, from the Department of Security and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General’s Office accordingly, say, do five and three minutes. What's left is time to spend the discussion. Is there no objection? Please sign in for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u80	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Vladimir Mikhailovich, a matter of some serious concern for the session of the Supreme Council. But it can be dealt with in a hasty manner, and it will not be effective for the national deputies or for our electorate. And I think even those who have been preparing to report or inform us about the actual state of the fight against crime and corruption will not understand for themselves how they will be able to present the relevant material. That's why there's an offer. Perhaps it would be better to move it today for the next time, so that both the reporters and the committee and everyone else would be able to inform on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u81	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Everyone knew this would happen today. We were preparing for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u82	Vasil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Respectable colleagues are certainly in need of a report. And a subject that concerns society. However, I think that because everyone who was supposed to speak today, including the main rapporteur and the co-Rapporteurs, they knew about this in advance. And to ask the question that we let them add another day or two, I think there's nothing radically different. There is an agenda, it is agreed, it has not been heard today and is therefore perfectly natural. Plus, look, respected colleagues, there are rapporteurs, co-rapporteurs with their information, that is, everything. The only question I have is, what will change if we postpone the hearing for a day or two? Nothing. That's why I don't think there's any point in changing that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u83	Xenia Leapina, please, your reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u84	Please pass the word to Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u85	Vladimir Stretovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u86	Vladimir Stretović, Our Ukraine, the Christian Democratic Union. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we asked for two and a half hours on the score. Nine deputies were enrolled. I told the Conciliation Council that this problem is now relevant in Ukraine and that it needs to be discussed on a multifaceted basis and expressed to everyone, to raise it to the level of the social consciousness of the discussion. We want to put in 40 minutes what happened. So please put it to the vote. Parliament will decide not to tolerate - we will listen. He won't decide to move. We'll listen today. Well, that's what happened. But I think it's a completely inappropriate course of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u88	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, in view of the fact that, according to the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, a representative of each reported faction has the right to speak on every issue, so it is necessary to provide for this time for statements by national deputies from the faction. Nine people signed up for the performance today. I think now we need to solve the issue so that they can speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. The thing is, we've got regulatory disagreements here. That it usually takes 45 minutes to consider the matter. We have 14 factions today, if I'm not mistaken. After three minutes, you can't, even if you don't have time to think about it. But since we've included this issue in the agenda and in the schedule of meetings and the proposal has now been made to move, so I can put this proposal to a vote, but that requires a decision of the Supreme Council. So I'm putting to the vote the motion to postpone the consideration of this matter, and I'm asking the National Deputies to identify themselves. [[12:24:57]] For-52 Thus, the pro-52. The decision is not supported. The Supreme Council has confirmed that it should address this issue. The factions? Please. Let's not delay time, but let's go essentially on the question. Communist factions, Ukrainian Regions, National Party - 0, Our Ukraine - 21, Block Timoshenko - 4, SPU, Ukrainian People's Party, Forward, Ukraine! - 0, SDPU (o) - 0, Reforms and Orders - 14, One Ukraine - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 9, Trudova Ukraine - 2, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues, let's now agree to the Rules, because we can't invest in 45 minutes here, so it's suggested that we do so, if you don't mind. Within 20 minutes, the committee's chairman asks for an answer to a question of up to 10 minutes, then 5 and 3 minutes, respectively, for the heads of law enforcement, then discuss it in such a way that we will work until 1:30, and then at 2:30, we will continue the speeches in the "Variance" if there is no objection. You don't? Thank you very much. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u90	Thank you. The High Head of the Supreme Council, honourable colleagues, members of the government, are invited! On the eve of a professional lawyer's festival to be celebrated tomorrow. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, together with the most sincere greetings of Ukrainian lawyers, is presenting a report on the state of the fight against organized crime and corruption in Ukraine. Note, then, that according to the law, such a report should be heard by the Supreme Council not less than once a year, but only once in November 2002. Three years ago, the report was called "Corruption Ruins State". Today, it can be rephrased and claimed that corruption destroys the state. This pessimistic conclusion is prompted by the processes that have taken place in recent years in the state machinery, including after the orange revolution, a vivid confirmation of what is the recent corruption scandal. During his activities, the committee, in accordance with the above - mentioned law and committee law, monitored the development of legislation against its crime, prepared appropriate legislation, and, within the limits of its powers, controlled the activities of the special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The committee's activities find support in the population of Ukraine, as evidenced by the number of mails that come to our address. If we received a thousand and a half letters in 2002, this figure rose threefold last year, and in nine months now 5,000,200 of our fellow countrymen have turned to the Supreme Council Committee for truth. People often turn to us for their last hope, hoping to defend their rights and freedoms that have been violated by the authorities of the State. A systematic analysis of the state’s situation, based on law - enforcement statistics, scientific research, publications, changes, and appeals, allows for the following conclusions. First, organized crime combined with corruption has become a real threat to national security, the constitutional system, and politics to state forms of security, both for society as a whole and for individual citizens. The interaction between power and business has reached such a level that it leads to the abuse of power to ensure the interests of certain business groups, including the obvious criminal nature. Here we should remind ourselves of the events of the year when the pressure on the Supreme Council allowed for the decision to privatise the “Cruvoristals” and what came out of it today. As well as recent developments surrounding the reprisal of the Nicopoli Ferrospile Plant, when we Ukrainians once again looked at the world, it became clear to everyone that a bunch of high-ranking civil servants had landed in corruption schemes, namely, the opposition of financially oligarchy groups had served as a catalyst for the political earthquake on cave hills. Despite the constant declarations on the need for delimitation of power and business, effective institutional and organizational measures are not being taken in the State. What's more, the corruption schemes, the success of bribes at higher echelons of power. Otherwise, how to assess the discovery of our colleague Diminsky in the newspaper “Ukraine Young” of his acquisition of a card in another national deputy to vote in favour of Januković's candidacy for 200,000. On the basis of the above, the Commission notes that the amount of aid granted by the State to the State in the form of aid to the State is estimated to be EUR 20 million and six votes in support of the constitutional reform in the amount of EUR 20 million. That's what I'm talking about. As they say in the people, "come." Yet such facts are not unique, random. It is known that according to the law, our committee is obliged to give consent to the appointment of the head of GIBZ, the Ministry, the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the first deputy minister. However, the IMF, in an effort to avoid such a form of parliamentary control, has introduced a bill depriving the committee of such a right. Now we're looking at a picture where because of our well-deserved personnel in the former, and now the current deputies of the Supreme Council are going around the established procedures and leaving our position out of the way, the IMF is trying to implement this law through parliament. How can we talk about the opposition to corruption, organized crime, if it is used by a higher representative body of the State? The following conclusion follows: The higher political leadership of the State, its representative bodies, executive and judicial authorities lack the political will to organize a proper fight against these negative phenomena. In support of this, let us note that during 2003-2005 the Supreme Council did not support any anti-corruption bill that was tabled in the session hall. The Cabinet of Ministers sent a draft law last year on prevention and anti-corruption measures, which the previous government had called off but was not introduced again in the new edition. The Supreme Council's decision on the previous report of the Committee proposed that Kabmin, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, together with the committee and other interested executive authorities, the involvement of leading professionals, establish a centre on a permanent basis for legislative proposals to counter crime. This decision of ours has not been implemented. In the current year, no anticorruption act has been adopted in the country despite numerous allegations of the need to increase the fight against organized crime and corruption. However, Ukraine is an integral part of Europe. And yesterday we celebrated the 10th thing about joining this organization that continues to monitor processes in our country. This month the Council of Europe will review the implementation of the Istanbul Plan of Action to Combat Corruption for the Post-Radians countries. Apparently, on another occasion many officials will have to borrow eyes from Sirca. It is known that organized crime and corruption are a kind of disease of the state that performs its functions through the bearers of will and consciousness, namely, government officials and law enforcement officials. Hence the following conclusion: The extreme corruption of law enforcement agencies, police, prosecutors, tax and customs services, the existence of a rigid management vertical, allows for the handover of teams from the centre on the telephone, which are automatically carried out at risk of being released without wasting time to study their legality and to reflect on the need to comply with the law. Let us illustrate this by illustrations. The committee was asked by the Ukrainian National Deputy for the protection of its electorate, claiming that the Deputy Attorney General K. was involved in ordering private structures and removing six John Dair combines from the criminal case during the harvesting period of the sunflower. Earlier, the committee received complaints from other citizens about the likely corruption of the procurator - general. However, at the request of the committee of inquiry, an influential lawyer responded by refusing and spread rumors that Stretovic was working the money. Honorable officers in uniforms, in many cases, well stained, do not judge, please, from your own personal beliefs, but think of what you will leave to your children and grandchildren as a result of your successful activities in your pocket? Although it is difficult to appeal to those who yield to principles. How can substitutes be required when the activities of the Henprocurator, as an organ of the State and its leader, need a separate analysis and cannot be carried out within the framework of this report. Without touching the issue of the investigation into the murder of Georgia Gongadze, assessed by the Council of Europe, the Supreme Council informs us that we have established the involvement of Henprocurator of the Ukraine of Piscona in illegal schemes for the possession of farmers and farmers through our relatives, together with the children and wives of other high-ranking officials. It has been investigated that a limited investment plan company, one of the founders of which is the wife of Henprocuror, unlawfully entered into a contract a year ago for the lease of a state-owned enterprise "The New Ukrainian Combine of Agricultural Products", which resulted in the application of shadow schemes to this company in millions of losses. On September 29th of this year, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyrovograd District for the actions noted has committed a criminal offence. On the following day, September 30, the Attorney General reduced the prosecutor’s position and relieved him of his duties. The Committee’s decision of September 7 to examine these facts created an appropriate commission to inform the Supreme Council’s decision. And now, not from the report. In countries of permanent democracy, in similar cases, officials are resigned to preserve honor and dignity. And in Ukraine, they're suing to defend their honour, which, in fact, they don't. Please indicate the objectivity of the court’s proceedings in a situation where the plaintiff has corporate interests with the prosecutor. Another point to be drawn by the committee is the corruption of the judicial system, its corporateization and, in fact, the lack of any public control over the activities of the courts and judges. The famous theory that living in and being free from society is impossible. So could the courts remain an "island of well-being" in the context of the "epidemic of bribery". While it should be noted that, according to members of the committee, the proper organization of the judicial system, with adequate material and technical security, social guarantees for judges, can quickly contribute to many anti-corruption and crime tasks. It is no different than by interfering with the irresistible force, if not the money, that the Polish investors of the Levian shopping center Magnus, who were illegally trying to dispossess the property of a million and a half dollars that they had invested in the reconstruction of the shopping centre. This illegal action was carried out in a premeditated scenario for the active participation and promotion of executive, law enforcement and judicial authorities. Customers and organizers of these actions are in favor. A number of lawsuits have been sent to the courts in various fields. For six days, the same question was decided by 5 approvals, and the Kyiv District Court of Borispil was in such a hurry to execute the order that it was approved as early as the day of the court’s application. Not only were the rapid speed of the work of the courts impressed, but also the geography of Kiev, Zacarpathia, Chernigus, Lviv and Kyiv regions. The analysis of available materials shows that the actions of individual judges show the signs of crimes provided for in the articles of the Criminal Code, but the Office of the Attorney General did not respond. Another example. The judge of the Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva, I., refused the prosecutor’s office to select a precautionary measure of detention for a person charged with three murders on the ground that the court had not been given any evidence that a serial killer would be hiding from the investigation and the court, which he had successfully done by leaving the cell and the courtrooms. In the case of smuggling, the judge of the Borispilla court in question reached the condition that $14,000 had been transferred across the border, which had been hidden in a beef thigh in a frozen form, could not be the subject of smuggling and freed the citizen of Israel from liability. Now found innocent, it demands compensation from the State for the damage suffered and the return of the dollars removed. This is how the mechanism for destroying the state by individual corrupt members of the judiciary is demonstrated at the level of the household. They can't give up the old methods of police work. Yes, on September 28, this year, quite recently, a C. from Kharkiv called on the committee to inform them that it was late at night in his own apartment in front of his wife and his daughter, without any sanctions or orders from the investigator, that two people who were threatening him, referring to the fact that they were police officers, had to get with them to the car and were taken to Kiev first, and then to Zitomir. Here in the police department, he was held up for almost an hour, subjected to unauthorized pressure, forcing him to transfer the second floor of the China Trade Center, Mandarin Plaza, to those targeted by the perpetrators. As later discovered, they were officials of the Department of Economic Crimes of the U.S.U.S.A. in the Zitomir region. The significant shortcomings in the activities of law enforcement agencies, the massive violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms, corruption, politics, commercialization, outright ignoring the demands of the Constitution and laws, the illegal interference in commercial activities of economic operators, the closure of these organs, the ever-increasing trend towards their growth with criminal structures have caused them to fail to carry out their tasks in accordance with the rule of law and the rule of law. These shortcomings have become possible in the absence of proper prosecutorial supervision, especially the supervision of law enforcement bodies that conduct operational research, knowledge and pre-trial investigations. Over the years, the Supreme Council has received receipts from the Attorney General's Office and the District Attorney's Office, which do not provide answers in substance and do not address the issues raised in citizens' communications. This is the 31st August of this year's response to the General Prosecutor's Office of the Committee. "Your appeal for a complaint by Zuprik against the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region and on other issues has been considered. A review of the arguments put forward in the complaint is entrusted to the prosecutor of Kharkiv County, who will inform you and the author of the complaint. The course of verification is controlled by the Henprosecutor's Office." And here's the original language, and it's recently received a repeat of the citizen's appeal to the committee. I quote. “About you on protection and assistance. After a request for your request came from the Attorney General's Office at the Kharkiv District Attorney's Office. Check the facts I've set out about the corruption link between Deputy Prosecutor Abakumov. I was summoned to testify, and I was told that I was complaining in vain because all the complaints came to them. And the next day, when she came in for questioning as a witness, she left as a suspect with a signature on her non-departure. I further request your intervention and protection.” Comments are unnecessary. I will simply point out that it is the prosecutor’s office, in accordance with article 12 of the Public Prosecutor’s Act, that oversees compliance with the requirements of legislation regarding the procedure for handling complaints by all organs, businesses, institutions, organizations. The well - known actions of the prosecutor’s office must be added to the well - known case of the Burjak brothers who are being punished today. And those who forge a case against them were free to steal their belongings. The Committee’s repeated appeals, even a criminal case of abuse, have proved to be a loud voice in the desert. A major disease for Ukraine was the growing and intertwining of the ties of corrupt coworkers of all law enforcement agencies. The interaction of these local leaders resembles the work of a well - adjusted mechanism, whose effectiveness and effect for ordinary citizens can be compared only to that of locusts. The next conclusion. For years, law enforcement authorities have developed corrupt connections and circular messages that are not easy to break, especially when the state has ruled and continues to govern the oligarchy clans that use law enforcement agencies to ensure their own interests. Last year a committee meeting was held in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Lviv, and Kiev. In this, in Kharkiv and Odessa, the results of which are based on appropriate decisions. For two years, the Committee received formal replies from the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, the DPA and others defined by the Basic Law of the Competent Authorities on Gross Land Law Violations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Only the discussion of this issue at the Committee meeting, with the participation of 10 authorities, has allowed the establishment of an interdisciplinary commission to address the problem. If the answer was that there were no violations, 33 criminal cases were dismissed within 10 days of the commission’s work. However, an interesting moment, a few months after the Commission closed, almost all cases were closed and suspected, and these were measures of the Black Sea cities and villages, continuing to work in their income positions. The next month, the committee will hear the results of the decisions of our outgoing sessions. Another example: In June 2003, the Committee recommended that the internal affairs authorities be released for abuse of office, for excess of official authority, then for Lieutenant Colonel Oleg Sal, and in December 2003, he was appointed as head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Lviv Region. As soon as he was in office, Salo was appointed head of the armament unit of the former inspector of the Red Cross, Kohuta, who had previously been sentenced to two years for the registration of smuggled vehicles by the figure Salo and his relatives. But today, suspended from office and declared wanted, Major General Salo, with deep indignation, accuses the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in front of the President of the illegal persecution of his former subordinates. Let me bring you back to January 2004. At the U.S. Council on Crime Control, with the participation of the former President of Ukraine, it was noted that one of the biggest revenue items in the State Treasury was coming from production, from the implementation of alcoholic liquor products. At the same meeting, it was emphasized that 50% of the liquor products were made illegally, which in turn caused the state considerable material damage. Without touching the curved, illegal companies for the manufacture of liquor products, whose closures, first of all, hit their own incomes, the lawkeepers exposed the illegal liquor company, which was mostly in the garage. Disposal of alcohol and other counterfeiting devices were not destroyed in the future, carried into another garage, searched for 2-3 persons, usually bums and re-detainment, television coverage, documents, and reports on the active work of law enforcement officials. A test carried out by the committee this year found that in the past year about twice the amount of alcohol produced by government liquor plants. This means that there is a black market for alcohol that is not accounted for, and the State budget does not get millions of dollars for special programs. This observation draws the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the need for increased control of state-owned companies in the liqueur-helicopter sector. The above inconsolable facts about the state of the fight against organized crime are also based on other social causes, such as the weakness of civil society, the alienation of power from society, democratic political traditions. It is also worth adding a low level of political and legal culture to this list, and in this regard it is worth stressing the nonprofessionalism of government when the lack of managerial skills is compensated for by personal loyalty, or by belonging to a common political organization, or by the presence of family, bestial ties. The time has come to regulate the public service of close relatives at the level of law, as well as to provide other warnings about the possible conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. Of course, such work will require scientific research and effort, and it will likely be resolved by the next composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One of the ways in which the committee fights crime is against trafficking in human beings. Thanks to our efforts last year, the United Nations Convention on Transnational and Organized Crime and its Protocols has been ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, here's a word for the Cabinet of Ministers that has to make legislative proposals to implement international law into Ukrainian legislation. The subject of criminal international trade is healthy Ukrainian children, women, and recently they have traded men who are forced to work outside the country in slavery. At the same time, symptoms are more disturbing. The committee, judging from the increasing number of citizens’ appeals, is stressing the likely existence of international organized criminal groups that specialize in adopting our children by foreigners. Yes, a well - known incident occurred in the Gitomir region when three brothers got rid of their parental care. Similarly, in the Kyiv region, two twins were adopted by U.S. citizens despite their grandmother’s opposition. Today, our citizens have become disillusioned with law enforcement agencies, courts, and other government agencies. In most cases, they turn to Parliament after law enforcement authorities have formally considered their appeals. The constant and full disclosure of the committee’s activities, the provision of information that is not involved in political reflection on the real state of the fight against organized crime and corruption in the state, is the basis on which the committee built and built its work. The final conclusion is that real changes in police, tax, customs, the Security and Prosecutor's Office and the Court can quickly be achieved only through the appropriate political will of the State's superior leadership, system-based building, I stress, on the system-wide principles of a system-wide mechanism for the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms and of any negative expression. These are the first questions that are before you: we need to stop the political rhetoric about the state of the overall construction of anti-crime activities and ensure the pre-guard role of the Cabinet of Ministers in the overall work of overcoming crime and resisting corruption. In line with current legislation, initiate a deep, scientifically sound reform of the law enforcement and judicial systems in the direction of transparency and the prevention of conflicts of interest. The next necessary step is to reform the system of law enforcement, the immediate adoption of laws governing the activities of public authorities to monitor compliance with laws, and the reform of the system of pretrial investigation. We need to understand that without further strengthening parliamentary control of laws in the area of countering crime and corruption and spending the funds allocated for these purposes, any change in this direction cannot be achieved. Our work as the Supreme Council should also be focused on the establishment of a system-wide and legitimate coordinated work of the competent state bodies, based on the fact that the fight against crime is the work of all organs and every official of these bodies, and not to reduce the excessive freedom of action of officials, the real reform of the service rather than the declared reformist powers, the fundamental change in the influence of local government authorities on the building of a democratic system of anti-group manifestations, ensuring that every citizen is guaranteed full information security, the priority budget support for the activities of special departments in the fight against organized crime and the proper control of expenses. Vladimir Mikhailovich, two minutes. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u91	Yes, please, half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u92	legal implementation of the new 40th and nine recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force to combat money-laundering, to combine publicity, to open the electoral process in 2006 with the responsibility of its subjects. And for the rest. Overcoming organized crime and corruption requires adoption at the governmental level of long - term action aimed at defusing the causes of these negative phenomena. The imperative duty of the state is to protect its citizens from criminal groups. The achievement of the effective results of the fight against organized crime and corruption is possible only through the full confrontation of state authorities with shadow business, if you want, the announcement of a shadow business of a kind of war. Specific measures aimed at changing public attitudes towards the activities of judicial law enforcement agencies and the conviction of the average people in action that the competent authorities of States are seriously fighting crime are a priority today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The report of the committee head has been completed. Please sign up for a question, 10 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Anisim, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u94	Anisim, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to my colleague Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u95	Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u96	Thank you. This is what I'm getting ready to do on this issue, but I'm very interested. Now, you've given us that many facts about these crimes, and they're not exposed, and there's no practical fight. But I'm interested in this question. Why do you have such an approach that you are said to have gone downhill on the ground? And at the top, just like the wind of moths? You know fish rot from their heads. And if you start what we're doing on the mountain, then it's going down. And I think in your report, you should've focused on what's going on upstairs. And if we do the fight right there, then there will be order on the bottom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear fellow! It seems to me that I started from above, started with Parliament, educated the activities of the Attorney General's Office, mentioned the Cabinet of Ministers, and all the structures, went down to the judges, all the spheres tried to touch. I'm just going to tell you that in the field of service in the past period, there have been 5,000,622 cases of abuse of power. But what does statistics indicate? That only half of them have been discovered. I'm officially reporting that the abuse has been detected, and only half of it has been discovered. Of the 488 cases of excess power, less than half have been discovered. As for the investigations of the higher echelons of authority, believe me, the committee has no authority to do so. The committee uses the information they bring, we don't have any investigators, we don't have any operatives, and just by checking these facts, which we then come to the conclusion that really corruption is, organized crime in Ukraine is both a fact and we publish such facts. You could call it a lot more, but within the rule, I can tell you a few hours about what's going on in the state, but let's save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u98	Yes, Your Honor, the Head has asked to inform him that he has a meeting with the head of the Irish Parliament now, so he is absent. Make sure there's no curves. Pussy, please. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u99	Pecklusenko, faction of the Regions, Zaporozhye region. I have three questions. First. Corruption can only be defeated by laws, and laws are passed in the Supreme Council. What is the issue of combating corruption if, from morning to evening, we are talking about money going through suitcases in the Supreme Council. Do you have specific examples of corruption in the Supreme Council? First question. Second question. Please tell me that you were one of Yushchenko's closest supporters. We saw you in this room with him all the time. As chairman of the committee, with such tremendous facts and examples, in nine months, President Yushchenko tried to meet with him at least once and to discuss in the form of the proposals that you have put forward here. Does the president know what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u100	Question three? I do not agree with you in that cave that corruption can only be overcome by laws, corruption fights the right level of legal awareness. I want to tell you that I'm upset about how the report was handled today, and I've been trying to ask him the first question, so we can say the whole thing, but the question is 40 minutes, 50 minutes, so we can talk and not make a deal. What examples of corruption in the Supreme Council, respected colleagues? I didn't say the principle anymore when it wasn't called that the Prime Minister's non-vote was handing out money -- it was all Ukrainian know-how, in general, there were rumors earlier that were buying votes, moving from faction to faction, and what our colleague Diminsky said was already a fact, I think the Prosecutor's Office will answer that he was buying a $200 card to add votes to support the candidate in the premiere. As to the second question. I find it difficult to answer that question. I want to tell you that since March 4, the last time I saw the President, I can't go to him and inform him what's going on in the state. Convinced that if I had such a possibility, perhaps this scandal had not happened, because there was much to know and it all came to a logical conclusion that, indeed, as a phenomenon of corruption in the higher echelons of power of Ukraine exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, behind him School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u102	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, you have thus observed today that the Act on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, on Organizational Legal Basis, is being ignored. M.O.S., no one's been held responsible. I don't know the committee was asking this question. I would like to hear from you or ignore the legislation of the prosecution, but it has come to the point that the procurators of the Attorney General, even those appointed in the Kirovgrad region, have already been appointed. You know how many deputies in the territory are assigned to release those who are legally in office or, God forbid, have sunk the Attorney General. It's not even funny anymore, you know, the circus is simple. If the President doesn't understand, why don't you understand? Why doesn't the committee understand that? Why is there no objective painting in Parliament right now? And to the end. Your opinion on my decision to resign Hen's prosecutor and that the Anti-Corruption Act is being used only for indicators, to deal with petty officials?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u103	I'll start with the last one. My dear colleague, it really does take place on the committee. For example, there's a letter from a policeman in the Herson area who wrote interesting things that, in order to make numbers, the police drive around the countryside, scatter their fins, cassettes, guns and then look in the bushes, and who will pick him to keep him as a cold-arm owner and show the figure of achievement of what the police have accomplished. I didn't call it in my report, because it's, you know, ridiculous. And the protocols that are at every step of the way, they're at the first, at the first level, resisting corruption. And everything else is out of the question, and that sounded like the first question today. As far as legislation is concerned. So I want to tell you in three years on the committee that ignoring the law as the basic line of conduct of a civil servant is the first cause of corruption. And the higher the official, the more he ignores this law. The higher he sits, the more he does not listen to the committee’s thoughts. An example that I called you regarding the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. A new director was appointed. He's the chief of staff. By law, and his office should be the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. However, he is not assigned to this position. Why? I don't understand. Although the law is written for both the Parliamentary and the Minister, and for the average citizen. And the last. I think that if this situation continues, political reform will be a panacea for us when, through Parliament, through parliamentary committees, by increasing their role in public life, everyone will be obliged to comply with the law, as parliamentary control will be an effective mechanism for the operation of such disgruntled officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u104	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u105	I'll add, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u107	I'm asking you, let me put it in. It's a shame we didn't hear an assessment of the current state of the fight against corruption. But I think my colleague Taran, Victor Taran, is going to ask questions and you're going to give the complete answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u108	Thank you, Andrey. Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. The most organized crime was the falsification of the second round of presidential elections. But neither Kiwalov nor any of the organizers of mass forgery have been punished. The case was referred to the prosecutor’s office, and there, I apologize, they sneered. So, the question is, have there been any action by the committee, any action by the committee to get at least one case brought to justice by the prosecution? Because today the bandits aren't in jail like they promised. And now, after the memo, they're our friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u109	Thank you. As to the first question, which is used by the committee. I can show you the mass of correspondence sent by the committee and you've seen a letter from the previous Attorney General Vasiliev complaining about how many Stratovic personally sent letters to the prosecution. I will be followed by a representative of the Attorney General's Office, you will ask him this question and let him, as the person responsible, say so. I'll just let you know one thing. It is known that there have been violations of electoral legislation. According to our information in the Donetsk Region, the police have collected 850 materials for such violations. On September 1st, 797 decisions were not made. As if they knew at the time that we didn't have to move anything, there would still be a signed memorandum, and we'd still be doing this project. [[This is about the memo signed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u110	Mikola Rudzkowski. Now Rudzkowski will ask and then we'll remind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u111	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter, can you please tell us in what legislative way can we help law enforcement officials fight corruption in their ranks? We saw that Interior Minister Yuri Lucenko had come, once, to free the people who had stained the uniform. A week ago, after watching them work again, appropriate decisions were made. But you probably need some kind of mechanism. What kind of mechanism can we put in place so that this does not occur? We even gave them a raise. As far as I know, the transport was given. What they need to do to ensure that such shameful phenomena do not occur among law - enforcement officials is felt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u112	Thank you, colleague. I didn't say it in the report because I cut it down, but the committee has prepared a strategy to combat corruption. We propose to adopt a Code of Administrative Procedure, where it is clear to each official what he can and cannot do, what his actions will be punished. It's going to be a signal, like an official, where he works because he's only allowed to do what he's allowed to do. And a citizen's signal, which can accuse an official, including an MREO inspector, including a district inspector, who will refer to the law says, "I'm sorry, but you can't do that." And we're going to try to knock down this dust of production, the dust of corruption. But on the other hand, what is being done today in the Ministry of Internal Affairs cannot fail to produce a favorable assessment. Only by one release, if the system is not moved, will we get nothing. It's going to be replaced by other people, and it's going to be a prophylaxis of 5-7 years again, and maybe for the tenth year, someone will think that they don't have to do that. Yes, I'm answering Deputy Carmazin's questions about the prosecutor. I said that the procurator of the Kirovograd district was relieved of his motives that his office had been cut short. In order that, because there are no formal grounds for release, the Attorney General has found know-how and today in the regions we have many assistants of the Attorney-General in charge, I understand, the Attorney-General's deputy in Kiev. I understand, Deputy Attorney General in Donetsk, great region. And now we've come up with the idea that the Deputy Attorney General is the prosecutor of the Kirovograd region. But as I'm told by the conscious people, the prosecutor was put on three occasions by someone who was expelled from the Attorney General's Office, including colleges. That's why I think we need to put in order the Attorney-General's day report on the state of legality and listen, and ask him a question about what's going on in our state of law in general. Our colleague Karmazin made a draft decision because the Prosecutor - General’s report is foreseen, and today he is not in the hall and is not clear why. I think we can put this issue as such to a vote. On the other hand, the legal department explains that a special procedure is needed. I think we should give a public, parliamentary assessment of the activities of today's Attorney General's Office. And the last word for Parliament. If Parliament is silent, sorry, the citizen of truth will not find himself in this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u113	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u115	We invite you to report to the head of the Security Service, Dried Igor Vasilovich. Five, report. 3 – responds. On the contrary? Let's do it the other way around. I mean, three minutes of the report and five minutes of the answer. No questions asked, changed. The rest of us will also prepare for such a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u117	Igor Vasilovich, I'm sorry. Are you disgusted? Revolt. Five minutes report, three on the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, through strict regulatory frameworks, I will not abuse your attention and call our numbers and characterize our achievements. Let me just say that in 2004 and nine months this year, the efficiency of our work is estimated at a total economic impact of 2 billion. 342 million In particular, it has been converted to the state budget by confiscation of court sentences and orders from investigators, amounting to $1 billion.68 million. Foreign currency, equivalent to $236 million. During this time, 7,000 were discovered. Crimes. More than 3,000 have been drafted to implement Ukraine’s anti - corruption law. reports of corruption. Two and a half thousand have been exposed to drug trafficking in the area of drug resistance. crime groups have been eliminated for about three kilograms of heroin, 50 kilograms of synthetic drugs, etc. Taking into account the priority given to protecting the economic interests of the State against criminal offenses, more than 2,000,300 crimes against property and economic activity have been detected by the BSS. A total of 197 criminal cases have been violated. There may still be much to talk about, but the fact remains that the battle against organized crime and corruption in the state has not moved from a critical point today. So I would like to go straight to some of the problems that depend to some extent on you, and generally on all of us. Among the problems that have a negative impact on the effectiveness of the Security Service's operational activities, and many of them, are the inadequacy of the existing legal field in the fight against corruption and crime, the needs and realities of today. This is not the definition of the limits of the competence of law enforcement authorities in this area, which creates competition between us, which in itself is a factor of corruption, you know that very well. But the main problem in our view is that in society, in the state, in power, and in the law enforcement environment, unfortunately, there was an unconscious substitution of certain concepts. I mean, the real challenge of resisting corruption today is understood by virtually everyone as the fight against individual corruption. And from here, the pursuit of the indicator instead of removing the causes of corruption, the company instead of a tiny system of work. Perhaps it's time to ask the question of creating a system for monitoring the state of corruption with elements such as optimizing the structure of power and ensuring transparency of government activities. Creating the motivation of the population to resist corruption, but the population is involved in this activity as well as the authorities. Revitalization of public activities, including civil rights organizations and mass media. The involvement of all kinds of monitoring and technical assistance from international organizations and the international community. And finally, the creation of an effective system for detecting the facts of corruption, for publishing them, for bringing the guilty to justice. The law enforcement system is just one of these five very important elements, which we can first understand what we have to fight, what we have to fight, and then we can start to do something about our resistance. I think that the right decision has to be conceptually taken and adopted, first of all, by the Supreme Council, and then after the development of appropriate strategic programmes, you can start this work, and balanced, calmly, with the understanding that it's a very difficult and long process to move towards results. In the end, there's the experience of many countries that have had and solved the problems that we now have, and in which it turned out to be pretty good. We need to build on international experience to start this work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u119	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Yes, three minutes later, Alexandrovska, Paklusenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u120	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. Igor Vasilevich, I have a question for you. I know that your service is fighting not only corruption but also economic crimes. It is known that the President's decree opens borders for foreign citizens, US citizens, Japan and European citizens for visa-free entry. This cost Ukraine some $60 million in fiscal revenue. I believe that this has caused serious economic damage to Ukraine, undermined by authority, because we have not waited or waited for the response of such an order, judging from the instruments that are ratifying in the Supreme Council. Like your ministry, do you respond to such facts or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u121	Yesterday, when I answered the question, the Zaporozhye national MP was talking about the inability to interfere with the economic and, in general, to do things that are not her own. The question that you're talking about right now is not about the competence of the BSC and, in general, any factors, or any factors, can be considered to have some effect on national security, create a danger or a threat to it. But in this case, it's not about the crime, it's not about the actions that the SBA should be assessing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u122	Alexander Pecklushenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u123	Region of Ukraine, Zaporozhye. Igor Vasiljevic, according to your colleagues, you are a professional enough person and, as a professional, please make comments to the people who have prepared this report for you. It's written there, and you're sounding. But there is a need for a system of monitoring corruption. Believe me, there's someone to control without you. And you and I need to create a system of fighting. That's the first one. Second. I think we need to get started from the courts, because it's a closed-circuit stock company. Until we turn him into a court of law, nothing will happen. Is there any material on your department on corruption in the courts? And one last question. Prior to the elections, there was a lot of talk about listening to politicians. Tell me, does this practice continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u124	First of all, when I was talking about creating a system for monitoring the state of corruption, I was just saying that not law enforcement would be part of this system or not just law enforcement. As far as fighting is concerned, you are absolutely right. This is the task of the law enforcement agencies and they have to do it. As far as corruption in courts is concerned, it is a real problem for society today. We're dealing with this problem. I can't discuss specific facts in this mode, specific cases, but I think you're from the press, from the Security Service reports you know about them. As far as listening is concerned. I am responsible for saying that there is no such practice today. What is more, we come up with proposals for extending the limits of control, including parliamentary control, to carry out operational and technical measures. We are also proposing to grant additional powers to the President-in-Charge to monitor Ukraine's Security Service. A whole set of measures is under way and I think they will become a very effective mechanism for real control that will convince both society and politics that this activity is being carried out in accordance with the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Already? Already, Yuri. Dear colleagues, there is one way out. If we want to continue, there is a desire to continue with the questions and discussions, there is no problem. Let's get rid of it today, and by 2:30, we'll talk about it. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. Five minutes report, three answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u126	Honorable national deputies, the presiding officer, to my deep conviction the event at the end of last year was primarily an anticriminal revolution, and therefore the subject of fighting organized crime is unifying for those who voted for one candidate and another. Realizing this, the Ministry of Internal Affairs is actively engaged in the fight of organized crime, which was created by the efforts of the previous government, which was not called criminal in vain in the nation. I say this with all my responsibility, because this is evidenced by the facts. Yes, more than 40,000 economic crimes were detected in the nine months of 2005. Of these, 17,000 are in the field of service. There is a 115 - percent increase in losses of more than 765 million dollars each and 3.5 thousand cases, 30 percent more than 100,000 dollars each. The sum of the losses incurred in the state during the previous period amounts to 18 billion dollars. Among other things, the efforts of the police and the prosecutor’s office have been compensated by nine billion. 1,062 authorities and authorities have been exposed. Including for critics, I will immediately tell 72 of the present - day authorities. Criminal cases involve the involvement of 18 ex-heads of the government, 21 of their deputies, five ex-heads of the district councils, 72 ex-heads and today's Reich administrations, 60 city heads and the heads of the landowners. All of this is a true pyramid of organized crime that was operating under the cover of former authority in Ukraine. During the test, damage was detected in the field of scratching for 600 million dollars. Alcohol and alcoholic beverages — 100 million dollars, VAT compensation — over a billion dollars, land use — over three billion dollars. The other one. The fight against corruption, both administrative and criminal, is also fought by the IMF. In nine months, 2,000,200 corruption protocols were filed and sent to the court. Including for senior officials, 254. Under the Law on Combating Corruption, 311 officials of local self - government, 12 statesmen, 67 statesmen were called to account. It is exposed to this, to this day, 3,000,700 crimes of bribery. The average amount of bribes increased by 40 percent and reached 8.5,000. Third. Work has been stepped up to eliminate persistent organized criminal groups and so - called thieves in the law, who have been exerting economic and political pressure in certain parts of Ukraine. In February 2005, 121 of these groups were held. Of these, 93 are drawn to criminal responsibility. The 28th work is ongoing. Fourth. Work to combat human trafficking and illegal emigration has been activated. At present, a new department has been set up to combat human trafficking. From a 9 month to a 70% increase in crime detection in this area. That's 354 cases of human trafficking. More than 400 victims of crime have been established and returned to Ukraine during this period, including 41 minors. 32 criminal groups of traffickers with signs of organization have been documented and discontinued. Fifthly, the fight against drug abuse has been intensified, especially its organized forms. 15,000 drugs have been documented. Five and a half thousand purchases were discovered by a group of individuals. For this type of crime, 6,000 people have been brought to criminal responsibility. Thirty-three organized crime groups have been shut down. More than 2,000 manufacturing facilities, drug use, have been shut down. In a thousand of these drugs, they were made. 178 underground drug labs have been dismantled and 135 drug delivery channels have been shut down in Ukraine. Sixth, hard measures taken by the internal organs. The fight against banditry. Thirty facts of banditry and 185 members of gang formations have been identified. In particular, in the Odessa region, an organized gang of some 40 criminals has been exposed to 34 deliberate killings. In the Donetsk region, the Luks crime group, which terrorized the eastern regions of Ukraine, is active. Seventh, here comes the hard work of disarming organized, criminal groups. During 9 months more than 3,000 firearms were removed from illegal circulation, including 10 grenade launchers, 3 machine guns, 49 assault rifles, and so on. Eighth, the job has been activated to solve the hit on the order. So far, 15 assassinations and criminal cases have been completed. There's still eight of these crimes going on. Last but not least, respectable national MPs often ask questions: If 1,000 officials are found to have committed official crimes, why are so few of them put to trial? There are subjective and objective reasons. Sabotage and corruption within all branches of law enforcement agencies are subjective, and I will not reject it. But there's also an objective reason: the prosecution's investigation, which according to the Law, is the only one who can investigate any official crime from the head of the Elder and is above the bulk of the crime found.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u127	Let me finish. Yeah, yeah, the microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u128	Once again, the prosecution’s investigation failed objectively to investigate the war crimes committed by the previous authorities. Their four thousand investigators are objectively unable to transfer and engage in the billions of damage caused by these agents. I emphasize that 17 billion dollars have been recorded only by the IMF. And that's why we all have to understand: the responsibility will come because these people are fixed, but unfortunately not as fast as all the citizens of our Ukraine would like.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u129	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Three minutes. Zybenko. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u130	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Kravchenk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u131	Please, Mikoli Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u132	Yuri Vitalevich, please answer such a question. If you're talking about Maidan being anti-criminal, then what do you invite tea to drink to yourself, who gets caught? That's the first question. And second. It is known that there has been a double increase in promotion fees in your department. I don't believe you don't know that. That's what your environment does. And yet, as Minister today, you are lobbying in all media the corruption law of the GAI, which you plan to introduce to the Supreme Council. The point is that you are already creating a public opinion of how you will take bribes from drivers on the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u133	I answer, Mikola Vasilovich. First of all, I invite you to an interview to showcase in the materials under investigation, which may turn into a criminal case, those whom I consider necessary, including Renata Ahemtova, whom you consider to be "whom has fallen". Likewise, I invite Mr. Medvedczuk, and I will invite in accordance with the Criminal Code and the KPC those who go through materials to possibly violate a criminal case. The other one. Regarding your story about the fact that bribes for promotions have doubled in the police force, I firmly reject this thesis. I think you're being rude, without the facts, by making these statements public, and you're discrediting those internal affairs workers who, frankly in their vast majority, are serving the people. During my work, five thousand law enforcement officials volunteered for my assignment from the police, another two thousand were not certified, and another 400 were brought to criminal responsibility by the Department of Internal Security. By the way, there's a 0 in the entire tax administration. So I think we have a fight against corruption inside the IMF in the right city. If you really have facts about giving bribes for any position or title, please come to me and in the same way, if it's proven, this person will be sitting behind bars. But please don't discredit police officers who work hard. When two lieutenants at the cost of their lives shut down a smuggle in Ukraine in the Luhansk region, your accusation falls on them too. That's not fair. Last one. Last on the DAI. Mikola Vasilovich, I want to protect with you all drivers who don't violate traffic rules, not those who, as you say, are poor, who don't have anything to pay for. Let them not break, and then anger has to be paid, and they drive, and they don't kill people on the road, because we have eight thousand people a year killing on Ukrainian roads. And let us not continue to tolerate liberalism when we cannot even write them a ticket. Let me give you an example. In Zitomir, a taxi driver was found nine times drunk and was never summoned by the court to issue a report. Is that normal for you? I believe that it is necessary to protect drivers, not violators, who bring death to Ukrainian citizens!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, please. Mikola Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u136	Alexander Stoyan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u137	Mr. Minister, it's a shame that you didn't look at Maidan when you were standing at the top, with the corrupts next to you, and you made an effort on them. But that's not what I'm talking about. Of course, from the committee's name, there's a lot of corruption, but you don't do it, you do it by fighting corruption with political opponents. You're doing the job of political forces. And I have a question: which you had the right to declare yesterday that if the Constitutional Court does not consider, it will not overturn the decision on the status of members of the local councils, for which we have voted, which the President has signed, you will resign. You're already drowning in the Constitutional Court. This is politics, not the fight against corruption. Answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u138	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. I've had a very good look at the scene of the community hall, where, in fact, a lot of corrupts have been planted, and millions have stolen professional property in the form of their sanatoriums and mosques. As far as political repression is concerned, I would like to state to you not all responsibility for the first time, but for you personally. The police are not fighting political actors, but if some of the politicians and politicians were robbing the state and the people, then yes, they are political repressions. In particular, once again, I inform you that your leader Janukovic considers political repression to be the responsibility of the Director of Aviation, his godfather, who listed 26 million employees of the factory cash register in November of last year as the very poor Bakaya in the State Department of Affairs, and today is being summoned to the City Prosecutor's Office for the prosecution. Then it's not politics, it's robbery. But if he has this policy, okay, it's political repression. And the last. I have the moral and political right to claim, as a minister, my position both as a minister and as a human being. And no you, no one else will take that away from me. I believe that today I am not going to bow down to Acid, who is a member of Kiev's Voice Rayrad. To allow Varsaba and Paulo, who have blown the heads of the Zacarpathians, I will not then be the minister. I'm sure there's a civilized way for the MPs to decide whether to allow or not to allow attraction, but to give indulgence to the bandits who, under the kind of MP activity, are destroying the people, I think is impossible, and this is my personal position. And I don't have it, Alexander Mikolayovich, because unlike you, I don't do factions or do that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u139	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich, please sit down. They've been swapping. You called his last name, he's yours. You traded. Please calm down. First Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Sergey Markianovich, please. Tell me first where the Attorney General means.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u140	The Attorney General is abroad in a shipping operation, in Strasbourg he is, and he will be in a couple of days. I am in charge of the Attorney General’s office today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u141	I'm sorry, I'm getting better. The word has the responsibility of acting as Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Regrettably, the rules do not give you the opportunity to tell you questions that are relevant in the aspect that is raised in the report today. What about the activities of the prosecutor’s office? In the current year, we have done everything we can to ensure that the public, the common people, can be convinced of the consistent and systematic protection of their rights and freedoms, the legitimate interests of the State and society. I think we've done our job as a whole. First of all, according to article 10 of the Public Prosecutor’s Act, they sought to make the most of their right to coordinate the work of the law enforcement agencies in the fight against crime and corruption. For 9 months, 50 coordination and more than 40 inter-ministerial meetings were held, with the participation of the heads of the IMF, the BSS, the DPA of Ukraine and other law enforcement agencies, not counting hundreds of working meetings at the same time. Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine. Meetings addressed the issue of combating organized crime and corruption in the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens, the organization of work on detection and investigation of crime. Coordination has also taken place in other forms, such as joint field visits, deliberation, joint investigation groups, and so on. In general, 444 criminal cases of crimes committed by organized groups and criminal organizations involving more than 1,800 people have been investigated and brought to justice, out of these cases 9 in criminal organizations, 18 in banditry, 90 in drug - trafficking crimes, 21 in human trafficking. Almost one third of the crimes of economic orientation, 22 of them with corrupt ties. Measures have been taken to reactivate corruption. More than 4,000 administrators have been referred to the courts for corruption activities that have attracted nearly 3,000 people. The number of criminal cases brought to trial in the same category is nearly a thousand, 20 percent higher than last year. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I must frankly say that the coordinating activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office have not yet been decisively affected by the state of crime and corruption, because the main burden still lies with specific law enforcement authorities, with their powers and actions to detect and combat crime. The special units created in the IMF and BAF system to combat crime and corruption have not solved all problems in this direction, although many crimes have been solved during this period. It is known that organized crime in the field of economics and authorities and governance in many cases had no reason to exist if it were not for corruption. But what can be said of the effectiveness of fighting this scourge if, during the current year, there are probably only three cases of bribery in the actual composition of the group’s organization? As still the main corrupters in the country remain petty officials. I'm convinced that the main reason for this is that there is a lack of direction in both special and other operational units to detect and detect such crimes. And that's when our tests show that search-and-rescue cases have been going on for a long time without sufficient reason, and so a large part of them are being closed in connection with rebuttal of material about criminal activity or uninstalled data. Finally, there is another reason. The improper organization of interaction between specific chapters and government control bodies, which are required to assist them in the fight against crime. The materials that come from. Organs on their own initiative are usually made up of. on certain minor tax and financial offences. I would also like to point out that we will continue to strengthen the enforcement of laws by the law enforcement agencies that carry out the search-and-research work to carry out the pre-trial investigation, which is the constitutional function of the prosecutor's office. Are we doing all we can to do this? You can borrow it. In the current year, more than 63,000 illegal decisions have been lifted by prosecutors. With the aim of remedying the violations identified, the law introduced 13.5,000 response acts, which attracted nearly 17,000 officials to the appropriateness of the investigation, of which more than 300 special forces were employed. In addition, 264 law enforcement officers have been investigated and prosecuted. In particular, I would like to refer to the consideration of legal references and the action of bodies that. crime. More than 91,000 of them went to the prosecutor’s office. Particular attention was paid to a comprehensive objective solution to appeals, requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Thus, it is no coincidence that the authorities of the prosecutor’s office have satisfied 638 of the 10,000 persons considered. I'm going to stop at some other questions that you can solve for your direct involvement. Obviously, law enforcement agencies are prevented from working effectively, not only in the organization of work, but also in the improvement. Law enforcement. For one thing, the laws on orgcrime, the fight against corruption, and the law on corruption need to be updated and amended without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u143	Let me finish. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u144	on operational and search activities. Many of them are outdated, do not meet the requirements of today, and sometimes they conflict with other legislative acts. Special units have been allowed to violate the requirements of the law, which have recently been discussed, because of the lack of adequate safeguards in the current legislation, especially in the course of operational and search activities. Under such circumstances it is necessary to make them more open to prosecution. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has made appropriate proposals on these issues. Their implementation will enable the State to create adequate conditions for effective countering organized crime and corruption. We look forward to fruitful cooperation with the Supreme Council, its committees, and all the national deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u145	Thank you. Let's sign up for the questions. Please, three minutes, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u146	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Kravchenk Nikolai Vasilevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u147	Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u148	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I have a question for you. Such an emotional, nervous statement by the minister today shows that the police are breaking up over what they are doing, working, working without putting their hands down. At the same time, the Attorney-General only handles one case, the Public Prosecutor's Office returns, and tells us all about how they handle the Gongadze case. Tell me, what part does the Attorney General's Office take in the fight against corruption in part of the great oligarchs whose last names are known: So, what does the Attorney General's Office take on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u149	Thank you for asking. One digit just to make sense of it. These crimes are the undersecurities of the prosecutor's office, almost all of them. And this year, 984 criminal cases have only been brought before the court, 984, of which 966 are prosecutors: 10 IMF, 8 B.S.A. and DPA 0. So all these cases that you're talking about are cases that are in the prosecutor's office. Without help, of course, the active assistance of the operational units of the IMF would not have ended this way. In this regard, we work in a very coordinated way. I can tell you right now, there was a question to Igor Vasilovich about electoral legislation, and I want to tell you right now, there were 1,570 criminal cases. And it's over and it's sent to 1227. There's still business left for today, 195. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the unrestrained responsibility of those who have violated it. I call you 1227 sitting in court of 613 having sentences in these courts, others still being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u150	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u151	Honourable Rapporteur, faction of the Regions, Zaporozhye Region, Pecklusenko. First question. Please tell me, when will the Attorney General's Office apologize to Boris Kolesnik for his illegal detention? He was reportedly detained in the Attorney General's Office. And when will the guilty be punished? Second question. Are you really asking the right question about the legislative framework that you are doing specifically to make these laws pass through the Supreme Council? And question three. Today, despite the fact that major evil must be combated, no less bad is the siege that today comes from government officials in small and medium-sized businesses. They're groaning from the paramedics, from the vets, from the firemen, you know that? When will you put an end to this divide?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u152	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'll give you an answer in English. What can I say? As far as Kolesnik is concerned. There's a criminal case, there's a criminal procedure code. On this day he is now accused. The case is being investigated. It's not finished. Of course, when it is completed, a procedural decision will be made either by apologizing or by judgments or so forth. At this stage, I can't talk about what's going to happen after a while. As far as the law is concerned. You should know that the prosecution is taking the most active part in the preparation of the laws of this orientation. The Public Prosecutor's Office has developed drafts of these laws. They, so I don't have legislative initiatives, these laws are passed on to those people's deputies and those authorities that can do them. We are now preparing a law on the national investigation service to develop the requirements that you've put in place to put the prosecutor's office in a constitutional model where we don't have an investigation. It's designed and we can give it to you. I think he's in such a stage of development that you could vote both in the first and the second, and in the third reading in one day. As far as organized crime laws are concerned, the chairman of the committee can confirm that there are frauds and we've given a lot of them, and by all these laws we have projects that we've referred to for discussion. We've addressed you three times, I want to tell you where the question is not solved. This year, 11,000 of us in Ukraine have been given permission to carry out special proceedings through the courts. Most of them are district and city departments. Thus, only the central prosecutor of the Attorney General’s Office and the areas are responsible for overseeing these activities under the law. And we don't have the ability to monitor these businesses in places. We've asked you three times to change the law and allow the local prosecutors to oversee this very specific, very difficult area of intelligence. Unfortunately, we've come to you again, and I hope that the fourth time you'll go to our meeting. So, in this respect, we have the whole administration, I'm the curator of this department, and I can tell you that dozens of pieces of legislation have been worked out that we've passed on to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u153	Alexander Mikolaiovich asks such questions in detail that they really require. Please, hurry up. The cloud, please, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u154	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear Sergey Marxianovich, first of all, I'd like to know why there is no Attorney General Piscoon on this stand. Because I think he's just hiding from the Supreme Council. And would you please explain to me why the Attorney General's Office has transferred criminal files against Bakai to Russia? Instead of putting out a postcard in Interpol and trying to extradite Bakaya to Ukraine for the proper punishment of the hundreds of millions of dollars stolen from the Ukrainian people, you have thus committed an official crime. I believe that the President must immediately release Piscot for this one fact and be brought to justice against him in a criminal case. That's where we have to start, not talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u155	Stepan Ilkovich, I answered the first question. Sand at this time is abroad, so it can't be here, physically it can't be here. As far as Bakaya's concerned, I honestly don't know the details of this. But one thing I do know is that under the current legislation, a person who has another state's citizenship cannot be extradited here to Ukraine. Stepan Ilkovich, I'm telling you, I'm going to make this very clear to you in very detail. All I know is that I know he's a citizen of Russia at this time, and we can only do it. Under international law, only to correct the matter to bring responsibility there, and the evidence of its guilt is given by the Attorney General's Office in full measure. What I can tell you. In detail, I am sure to clarify the details, and I will tell you in person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u156	Thank you, Sergey Markianovich. Yes, the reports are all completed. We should've moved on to the Vulnerable. Let's do that, let's take 20 minutes to discuss this. Wait, there are people who want to go to the Vulnerable, but we can't if you vote that there isn't a "various" today. Who's to say there's no "Crazy" chapter today, please? [[13:39:53]] For-29 I mean, it's gonna be different. So I suggest, let's have a discussion in 14 hours, and from 14 to 14.30 will be "Variable." Because it is. Yes, the factions will speak first. Please, Bondarenko, the "Go Ukraine!" faction. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u157	Grigory Bondarenko 92 District, Kyivščina, “Forward Ukraine!”, Bloc Vladimir Litvina. Dear colleagues! The question that we're discussing right now, I'd say far-reaching, touches millions of people. I'm not exaggerating. No, it's not. I'll try to convince you in three minutes. In May of last year, when a monster was first set up in the park of Mariana, I spoke of this madness from this rostrum. When I asked the highest officials of the state, former prosecutor Kyiv Kuzmin replied: “There are no violations. More cynicism, I think, is hard to avoid. The building is erected in a place prohibited by the Law, and the prosecutor claims that the law is not violated. And it's not about the kiosk, it's about the face of the capital and, in the end, the state. Now let's go down to the Bilocerksilmash factory in Kiev. A third of its shares belong to the State, and the oil company’s head of the monitoring board owns two related factories. Hostageing means robbing in broad daylight. So it's serious and it's open. And the White Church prosecutor's office only mimics that he's struggling with it. It violates a criminal case based on the use of false seals on secondary individuals. Something like this is happening at the lowest level in the village of Chihuahuas. The letter to the parliamentarians signed almost the entire village - 291 signatures. People claim that despite the decision of the Selrada session, thanks to the promotion of the head of the village, Kiev’s inhabitants have been allocated an acre area for construction. A future building paves the way for the forest and brings discomfort to all the inhabitants. Everyone is silent, both district and district, and this sad list is endless. Everywhere, in cities and villages, in the state, and not in the public spheres, the leaders are mass abusers, violators of the law. People can't get justice. We usually complain about the courts. But prosecutors and investigators are also on the side of people and the case here, not in names, not in Piscoon, or in Vasiliev, but in the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u158	Please get ready for Yavorowski’s School of Andrews, Yulia Timoshenko’s Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u159	Thank you. I would like to emphasize that, honourable colleagues, honourable radio listeners, that the report, in principle, we have heard, a report by the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, we have heard the history of corruption in Ukraine, we have heard examples of two-, three-, five-year-olds. That's interesting. I think it's particularly interesting for historians, because historians, they're going to study the transcripts of parliamentary activity and, usually, they're going to have a good field of activity. But I would like to hear about the current state of the fight against organized crime and corruption. In particular, I wanted both the committee and the prosecutor’s office and the Security Service to stress the progress of the cases under way. Are they at all? Is there any, at least, statistics that can be published at least as official? I wonder how personnel policy was built in the BSS after one director was removed and another was appointed, and why were the whole group of deputies responsible for the direction of the fight against corruption released? What were the reasons? Incompetence or a weak struggle, or vice versa, is there too much struggle? That's not what I heard. Here we go. It's a word-and-word game. If the fear of naming Zinchenko’s performances, Tomenko’s speeches, Turkinov’s, was it to organize these, say, hearing and discussing questions? I think there should always be a reason and a result. What was the reason for the speech of the chairman of the committee? Clearly, it is stated in the Rules that no less than once a year, committee heads report for their activities to the Supreme Council. When did any other committee head report? So I have a sense of the artificiality of the process. There is no Attorney General, and I would think that it would be possible at all to postpone consideration of this issue so that it would not be crushed but prepared. But I think this approach was a completely formal and completely formal decision of the Supreme Council on the state of the fight, it's so historic, it's about the state of the fight against organized crime in 2004-2005, and it's only remembered in 2004. It was rightly noted by my faction colleague that we did not hear at all about the crimes committed during the elections. Was there a fake election or not? If so, who forged it, and who forgered it, and for what terms were they called to account? That's not what they said. So I don't think there's any reason to vote in favour of this decision, and I think there's no reason to limit myself to the discussion at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u160	Javorowski Volodymyr, “Reform and Order” faction. He will be followed by the City Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, our constituencies. I mentioned the beautiful phrase of the brilliant Russian actress Raniewski, who said that the sclerosis cannot be cured, it can only be forgotten. Well, it's just that I've been so impressed by today's discussion. It is wonderful to understand that the state, literally the government, has rotted down. Society has become absolutely apathetic with the belief that something can change in it. And our discussion, in my view, of course, resembles such an easy walk. My good friend Stratovic made a report and left, and he's not interested anymore. Oh, sit there. Sit down. Because of this, I think it's worth a much deeper discussion. That's why I wanted to touch just two things. You know, after Maidan, how society has believed that there will be changes. As Lucenko gambled on some things, so they believed him. How did this end today? Absolutely so that those who would have to catch the thieves, they tell them, they warn them, two days in advance, run, run, because tomorrow or the next day we're going to arrest you. That's what we're up against today. Because of this, you understand for yourself, and the signing of this peace treaty, after which anyone can talk about it as just purely political repression. And very precisely today, Lucenko said that if this is a policy, there must be repression, of course, against such a policy. But I wanted to say one more thing. Instead of feeling that everything is coming back, the opposite begins in the fight against crime. Come on, boys, on the loose, on the loose. After the President's signature of this law. Do you have any idea what's going on? I got a call from Kirovgrad, all those guys who put knives up their throats under the electoral company, and I was there. Then they were buried, no one was seen, one was arrested and released. Today, they are in black jeeps and have all arrived in Kirovograd, occupied all the restaurants, and marched the brothers today. They have been untouchable ever since. Instead of 450 intact bunkers that are right over here in this room, we're going to have about 50,000 now. Minister, who are you going to fight? How will you fight? I want to know how much a village council seat costs.? Because there's a touch. Apparently, there's going to be a little bit more to the district, more to the district. This is absolutely unacceptable. I am very glad that we have gathered signatures today and that we appeal to the Constitutional Court for this Law to be vetoed, a moratorium. It just can't be, people good, what did we vote for? The state, once again, is suffocating by big-scale thieves, and we're only walking down. Adam Ivanovich, I am convinced that we will have to return to this subject again, because we, Parliament, are the last ones, I think, on this subject no longer speak to anyone else, unless, perhaps, the minister
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u162	Yes, Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party, prepare the Rabbit, just Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u163	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party Respectful voters, respectable colleagues, corruption has led people into the field. If only someone hadn't tried to say it now. I thought it was a dream to forget. Believe me, people remember who ripped Ukraine apart and people will give that assessment, regardless of whether the corrupts are sitting in the executive branch or in this room. Of course, the issue of smuggling of $14,000 in frozen form was very touching. I believe that the fact that a person has been driven to or to or from the Žitomirski UBEP is a general requirement of urgent response. But I think there should be facts here that are known to all people. About the billions, the billions, I repeat, the theft of the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people. Strangely enough, from the attorney general’s mouth when asked by a colleague of the cloud about Bakaya: How many did he steal? He knows everything, I think he's a Ukrainian schoolboy, and here in front of Parliament, the attorney general's first deputy says, "I don't have information on this case." If you don't have it, just write your application quietly and go. Or you're covering up the same bakai. Maybe you've been covering for the orange authorities ever since. What's going on in the D.A.'s office? Yes, there was a replacement, either in Chernigovsky or in other areas. But in fact, the whole chain remained the same, which actually allowed for the rise of criminal elements with power, which is called, which means the legal concept of "corruption". Was it corruption when Yanukovic took off for the Federast convention in Northdonetsk that he used a DUS plane? Has the Security Service responded? I'm not saying that about the fact that Ukraine was scattered! Was this plane paid at the proper time? Was he right? And a lot of the colleagues who're sitting in front of me right now have been using them. Wasn't that corruption? They're yelling at me right now that it was. They say they're only mentioning last month's corruption. I think if we don't want to talk about this concept, and the form of reporting that's going on here on such an important issue, we need to take this concept seriously, not use it as a pre-election rhetoric. We, the Ukrainian People’s Party, have always spoken of the fact that we did not cover up criminals with parliamentary intricacy. Today, the MPs of UNODC have signed a petition to the Constitutional Court, and we will not allow 250,000 to be touched among the 38 million. We also always required a full, serious report from the Attorney General. It doesn't matter if it's Piscoon, whether it's Vasiliev, whether it's Needy or Vorsinov. To this day, why is Ukraine’s parliament not seeking a report that should answer the questions raised here? I assure voters that the Ukrainian People's Party will always stand in the interest of citizens and fight corruption in Ukraine, without meaning what color it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u164	Vladimir Hare, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Hare, faction of Social Democrats. Strange things happen in the session room. I'll start with a reaction. Why should you, your fellow Members, address the Constitutional Court for this law? Look to the honorary head of his party, why did he not provide for this law? And let's not speculate. And now on the subject. Dear colleagues, for six months, the Social Democrats have drawn the attention of society, the President, to the media, to what has been the illegal interference of law enforcement agencies. The police, the prosecutor’s office, the courts, instead of serving the law, carry out the political orders of the new authorities. Most of them are political persecution and property redistribution, which is the greatest manifestation of corruption and crime. Both the instigator and organizer of these disgraceful things were the highest leadership of this nation, with the ugly creation of the U.S.N.P.R.B. Secretariat led by Peter Dorosenko. It is the guarantor of the Constitution that has violated the Constitution. Neither the appeal of national deputies, nor the Supreme Council’s decree, nor the institution of the authorized one, nor the political crisis, nor the economic one, have caused the end of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. And all of a sudden, the committee's eager desire to consider this issue in a session room with such a clear bribery under the Attorney-General's Office, which we're more than all of us as Social Democrats, and we've been critical of it, and the Attorney-General, who is a true friend, in paws, just social Democrats. Well, I don't believe it, my friends, in your pious intentions, as I don't believe in authority in general. I don't believe the President who's changing his position during the day: he's in charge of the reform flight, he's against her. The same law on election of national deputies and a new barrier. Touching, touching, and so forth. Guys, this isn't just a coincidence. What example is set for government officials? And I don't believe in a government that's completely inadequate. You see, it's completely discredited by its professionalism, by its corruption scandals in the very near surroundings of the President, which today has no place in the report of the committee in fact. She still appeals to some moral virtues, to the values of Maidan, and claims to be political exclusiveness. Yet today the attempt is being made to transfer everything exclusively to one Attorney General’s Office. Where's the Home Office? Where is the recent decision of the Supreme Council to assess the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry in the fight against drug abuse? Who today fights drug trafficking and so forth? The answer is simple: Such political will today. And isn't that why today's attack on the Attorney General has finally managed to bring a criminal case against the leaders of the orange revolution? And they say the Attorney General's Office is investigating the activity of legal, financial equipment of the present Mintrans today and they say that there's been a paper on the President's table, on the illegal return of VAT to 2.8 billion dollars of Ukrainian money, and that it's the orange businessmen, and that the responsibility lies with today's DPA head, Mr. Kyrie. And the president hid this help, frankly, and there's no response. That's why we're not going to vote, we're not going to participate in another orange show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u166	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. He will be followed by Richter's Raise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! The committee head’s report lists dozens of this turmoil that is taking place in the country. There could be hundreds of thousands more here. But I'm still going back to the question that I asked the Minister of Interior, that why we forgot the folk saying that fish are rotting in his head. When I asked that question, my friends said, “Yes, and they clean it from below. ” We've got this exact procedure going on right now that all the rot has gone out of our heads, and we're just doing the cleaning downstairs, and we're not touching anything from the top. The head of the committee says I can't go to the president anymore. Yes, good people, if I'm acting as Attorney General, I can't make a claim because he's not a politician, he's an official, you're a politician, you're a minister. You've brought this president into power, this government, you've done, you've done this power, and now you can't come to it. He said here my one countryman: well, ansons comes out, honest word. Who do you appeal to now, and you should appeal to yourself? I'd like to ask the minister another question. I'm for justice. He sat there, guilty or innocent, for a long time under the arrest of the Kolesniks. Your case, what you did to him, you probably didn't prove it, I don't know, maybe the D.A.'s office. But I have a fundamental question. We've come to suspect the corruption of Dusty. Why didn't you lock him up, please tell the D.A. or you? But lock him up for at least two or three months, maybe some kind of method and ask him a question. And you're not. Then it turns out to be pure in us. And here's another question. I'll make sure there's order on the road! To make sure there's order on the road. But, Yuri Vitaliyovich, if we have an unfair approach, it will not be order. I would have had a great honor if I had been personally fined by the Minister of the Interior. Which is why the President's son is fined by a minister, and that cabbie 38 times by a sergeant. The court didn't press charges at the time. I need the minister to go, fine, if that's what you're saying. that there may be justice, then it shall be order, and so what do you do? And there's a lot to go on. I only have one comment to the D.A.'s office. As many complaints as you don't write to you, you move everything down there. I don't know. I understand the complexity, so just do it selectively for once, let the commission go somewhere and check it out. Whether it is the right thing to do or the wrong thing to do. You're not gonna get anywhere. And one more thing. As long as we do not elect judges and appoint judges, we will never win or overcome corruption. And it's up to us politicians, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 14th hour, but we have three factions left, so let's give them and finish. Please, Raisa Bogatirov, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Behind her, Tkalenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u169	Dear National Deputies! There are a number of diseases that are not spoken of properly. Probably the most indecent disease in power of any and anywhere is corruption. This phenomenon is multifaceted and a species of this disease is numerous. Yet, what lies at the heart of corruption and what triggers it. The founder of the international institution for studying and preventing corruption, the Nobel laureate Sanchez defined it this way. “If society does not receive information that is artificially limited by authority, it is the beginning, the foundation and the ground of corruption.” This just conclusion is not known to those who are already dancing on old robberies, for example, by shutting down the NTN channel. So the first radical way to treat this eternal disease of power, corruption is truth, timely, uncircumcised and accessible truth. Ukraine needs reforms. But with the beginning of 1991 and to this day, they all became the cause and justification for the pirate redistribution of property. I repeat the current regime is, unfortunately, not the desired exception. That's why in paragraph 13. 8 The resolutions adopted in Ukraine yesterday are a clear warning to the active authorities that economic reforms will not only result in the redistribution of power among the oligarchs. No previous regime in Ukraine has set up a herd of property and owners so boldly and theatrically. If there's no anarchy in the country, anything that happens in the country is a direct or indirect consequence of the actions of power. I hope there is no anarchy in Ukraine. Thus, the Head of State’s decision is guided by the source of information, often without even suspecting that he, like the people, is limited in information to even distort it. And if in the present absurd circus, Mr. Lucenko pretends to be a clown and starts yelling at the national MPs, the Attorney General's Office of the Muggle and the Equilibrist plays a role that almost hypnotically shapes and provokes the most resonant statements then and then the President. Thank God, even though the Cabinet of the Head of the U.S.A. ceased to be a shepherding pulpit. By the way, the Ukrainian Security Service was now a very effective tool for redistribution of power and property in order to put an end to it, it needs the authority of this service to limit, exclusively, national security and not to make it with the second IMF. And for the rest. One creator of the democratic country, Thomas Jefferson, said: "Freedom of the press is a constant vigilance and its eternal duty to protect our government from corruption." As we can see, civilization has long appointed a chief physician in the treatment of corruption, which is the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u170	Thank you. Alexander Tkalenko, People's Movement faction. After him is Vasil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u171	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Today, we have heard a report by the Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and statements by representatives of the military. And certainly, many of the facts that have been published today raise many more questions. But let's look around. Unfortunately, the prosecutor is no longer here. Is it? I'd like to ask him a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, first look and then talk. Because that's what they hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u173	I'm sorry. Put yourself in the seat of an average citizen and go to any district attorney's office and above, and file an application. You won't have it. There's a special procedure to avoid taking it. I think we also need to take steps here to make this process of making applications more transparent and democratic. The other one. We're talking about a lot of things. Let's take a look in Kiev. There's a state-owned hydropark utility, where, let's say, urban culture management, all children's and institutions, entertainment children's facilities, sports facilities are already re-profiled, well, let's say, in bad places. Moreover, people walk in the right way and are represented by members of the public organization “Committee for the Promotion of Corruption and Organized Crime”. If we're already in the capital, what are we going to talk about? Next. In the Hersonian region, a considerable array of irrigation systems was stolen. To date, prosecutors, police, authorities, local authorities, and executive authorities are launching a round of mutual accusations. But the fact is realized. And the question needs to be resolved today. Next. Dear friends, the Committee to Combat Organized Crime is composed of all factions and I am a member of this committee. We work very hard. And I am surprised when the decision to declare the report is unsatisfactory. We must first learn the authority of this committee. We're doing everything we can. So I have a proposal: a report to approve and add the only one to create an interdisciplinary analytic group that would work on those shortcomings in the current legislation that are preventing us from fighting with you today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u174	Basil Nadrag and we're done. Anatoly Frost, please. Passes the word, he's entitled. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u175	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Anatoly Moroz, 83th electoral Mikhail County, Zaporezka District, “Forward Ukraine!”, Blok Volodymira Litvina. I will start by listening to the report, the reports, and the reports. But unfortunately, you know how difficult it is to get there today. And so I wanted to ask a question, and I'm just going to start with what we can talk about today, all the deputies, colleagues about Ukraine's accession to the European community and so on, but when in Ukraine today, corruption and we all hear and see it reached huge scales, I think it's just funny and more to say that today our citizens, especially the ranks, feel it and understand it. I can give a lot of examples. So this is literally after the last district job, a lot of citizens complained about the actions of law enforcement agencies, courts, prosecutors, local authorities. Let's just take a question that the President in his own time, the President of Ukraine, issued a decree on the reform of the APC. Each of the colleagues, I think the MPs, including Masenko, will say today that the bigger problem that voters are dealing with may not be. Sadly, however, neither the authorities nor the President of Ukraine can analyze the state of the matter that our people and peasants have brought to an end in order to answer the vicious questions that have been given to pies, pies, and so forth. For example, in the Mikhail district, literally recently all my colleagues supported the failure of a judge in the Mikhail district of Samoblov. All of you may remember. But in this court, things like this continue, which they say is just the hair on the head. And where you don't go, all the structures, the prosecution, the police, the courts, the Supreme Council of Judges and so on, the answer comes in one way, covering the action so to speak, the lower organs, the courts and so on. Tokmak, I'm not going to call it the Surname, the Consignment Area. How much did he talk to when a man, a manager, and a second businessman in a drunken state beats two people, both together? There's an expert opinion and so on, the courts make a different decision, the prosecutor's office is totally out of action, and there are many and many examples. So I end up asking the same question, who is responsible for corruption and, in general, what is corruption? I think that corruption is what we do laws, someone doesn't do them, and someone doesn't answer them. That's why failure to comply is the biggest corruption in our country. And who controls the lower parts of the courts, the prosecutors, the police, and so on? These are direct service obligations. Perhaps they should be ordered for these.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u176	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Strutovich, one minute, a line. I don't remember you being mentioned, what are you going to rehearse about? The replica is when the name is mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u177	Stretovic, Our Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I just want to show our audience that I didn't come out of the hall. And secondly, ask our fellow deputies to support the draft ruling. This project encourages us to consolidate the efforts of various bodies, different institutions to produce a legislative institutional mechanism to counter corruption. If that is not the case, fighting this negative evil is extremely difficult, as the discussion today shows. Thus, the approval of a decision as required by the legislative body will give guidance to both the Attorney General and the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to address the problem of anti-corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u178	Masenko microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u179	Thank you. I'd like first of all to thank Anatoly Mikolayovich Moroz for the fact that, in the end, he realized that besides me, there's no one here to discuss the issue of combating corruption. It's like Anatoly Mikolayovich, it would have taken a long time to understand, it's his level that I can say. I won't say anything else here. But on this point, I'd like to say something else, Anatoly Mikolayovich, so let's make this scientific for you and many others. You supported the orange government, you went to the third faction, which is not unique to you, but to others. You broke the oath you gave to the voters to support you on an idea, and you've betrayed them several times. That's why we have so many poor people in the country, so we can't fight corruption. As long as we run from faction to faction until we stand firm in one position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, you exchanged lines, you mentioned it first. You mentioned it in Masenka's speech, I'm sorry. And he did, he didn't have to, because now you're calling again, he's going to try it again. It's over. Once in a while, you can't. Question completed. We have three draft regulations, we're going to talk about them now. This is a matter for the people, not for the presiding officer. The draft of Decree 7756 “On the status of the fight against organized crime in 2004-2005”, submitted by People's Deputies Stretovic and Tkalenko in exchange for the draft decree of 4 July 2005. I'll bet you a vote. [[14:13:28]] For a hundred and Not supported. That's the draft of the decree, isn't it? By factions, let's do factions. Yes, Communists 51, Ukrainian Regions 0, National Party 5, Our Ukraine 25, Block Timoshenko 5, Socialists 18, Ukrainian People's Party 11, Forward Ukraine! - 9, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 13, One Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, NDP-0, Trudova Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 2. The next draft of Order No. 7756-1 is submitted by Hubski, Osika, Kuzmenek, Rybika in exchange, also in exchange for the vote. [[14:14:42]] For -6 I see. Yes, and we have a third draft of the decree, but unfortunately he has no right to life today. This is a decree, draft decree of 7756-2 of the People's Deputies of Carmazin to express mistrust to the Attorney General. Once again, a special procedure is needed to make such a decision. We didn't stick to it today. That is why I have no right to vote. I'd like the committee to work. And I think we're going to go back to your decision, which is 10 times the number of votes. And we will make a wise decision. Yes, dear colleagues, we have violated everything we can. Although we have listened today to a question that does not allow us to do anything. Let's thank the Force for coming, for reporting, and for coming to us in the first place. Yeah, well, 30 minutes for the show. 30 minutes, please sign up for Razna. It's burning, it's burning. Yes, please. Please, Eugene Gorenik, follow him Tkalenko, he'll be a record player today. Please, 30 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u181	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear MPs, distinguished radio listeners. In September, when I met with the voters, I was very often asked what was going on in Ukraine, and very often I had to quote our famous Gethman Stephen Mazepa: “All the disagreements were gone — they were themselves drawn. ” And it has to be reminded that once again it is necessary to read the Black Council of Kulish, to know that such events have occurred more than once in our history and have led to what they have done. And by putting up with Yushchenka and Timoshenko’s supporters, there is no one on the right side of the family quarrel. In such a situation, violence is being lifted up and forces are taking on a completely different force, the opposite of Ukraine, contrary to the ideals of the orange revolution, and they are becoming more and more insolent. And so today's discussion is also an example of an East Wind, a Sunrise, a Communist Front, and things like that. I want to say in a similar statement that not only did the sun come down from the East, but also the Batieu horde and the Communist horde, which has done much more harm to Ukraine than, the same, Batieva. And now it's funny to talk about some communist resonance. And speaking of the people’s interests, they can speak only of the five percent that were supported in the final elections. But in these situations, a solution is needed. And this is the only way we see it is to bring together all the Ukrainian forces on the Ukrainian national idea, to create a single front of the Ukrainian National Choice that will ensure the national rights of Ukrainians, to protect the national economy, to protect the national military, to protect the national entrepreneur, to protect Ukraine in the form of a national idea. I hope that our leaders will have the wisdom to unite under this idea in order to win the next parliamentary and presidential elections and to overcome the corruption that these conflicts themselves often bring. The untouched in Ukraine should not be. And this parliamentary immunity must be eliminated not only at the local level but also by the promises made by very many deputies, the distinction between parliamentary integrity and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only then will there be a separate business from politics and we can talk about the normal European choice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u182	If we separate business from politics, the Supreme Council may be ineffective. Alexander's fabric, please, the People's Movement faction. After him Stupak gave the word to Ratushnam.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u183	Tkalenko Alexander, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. Today, we have very big problems with budgeting in 2006, and I would like to address the issue of early social rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities, which are of great importance to the humanity of our society, the increasing humanity, the spirituality and simply our attitude towards these unhappy children. Today, the cost of social protection in various areas is not taken into account by the maintenance of early social care centres called mother and child centres. These centers, I remind you, were designed to implement a state-wide program to prevent childlessness for the years 2003-2005. In accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of September 8, 2005, number 879 on the approval of a temporary position on the social centre of the mother and the child financing of the centres should be made at the expense of local budgets for the implementation of programmes aimed at solving problems, children, women, and the family. However, in the 2006 estimates, the Ministry of Finance does not take into account expenditure, which makes it difficult and difficult to maintain the facilities properly. In addition, centres for early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities have been set up to implement the National Children of Ukraine programme. And by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26 May 2004, number 698 on the approval of the use in 2004 of the Social Protection Fund for the functioning of disability rehabilitation centres was continued by this decision for 2005. And it is intended to finance only inter-regional and district centres for early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities. At the same time, they are created and remain difficult to finance centres of regional importance. Taking into account the social significance of these centres for early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities, I propose that the cost of maintaining these institutions be included in the calculation of expenditure taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers of appropriate district and local budgets. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u184	Mikhailo Ratushny. Behind him is Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u185	Respectful voters, respected colleagues, and especially those who have given up their lives and youth in the struggle for the Ukrainian constituency state. As well as those who take action against UPA soldiers and against historical memory. I've been holding in my hands the 39th volume of the Nuremberg Process, document number 014, submitted by the Soviet Union since 10.10.41. I won't quote him in German, but it'll all be clear. This is the Gestapo document, which states that the destruction is “alle sovietische Commissioner, alle sovietische Juden and alle Functionare der kurainische Vandera Bewegung”. This is a testimony to the Nuremberg process of being exterminated by the Nazis during World War II. This is a document that confirms who fought Hitler in Ukraine during World War II. Now let us see who cooperated with the Nazis of his day and who solved World War II. This is a document from August 24th, 39th, The Truth. Here's the Soviet-German non-aggression treaty. This is the leader of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, along with Ambassador Hitler Ribbentrop. That is who solved World War II and who caused the millions of deaths of the Ukrainian people. Quite often, some speculate that Ukrainian nationalists, UPA soldiers, were involved in anti - Semitic extermination. That's not true, here's a card that was taped all of Ukraine east and west on behalf of German rule. I will allow myself to quote what the Nazis were writing at that time. It is evident from the secret orders and instructions we received that the Kremlin Jews are associated with the UN, which supposedly fights against Bolshevikism and Nazism. So I'm talking to representatives of those political parties where there are representatives of the respective national, ethnic minorities. The recognition of U.N. soldiers, U.P.A. fighters for Ukraine's will be paid by someone long before us who has given us the right to sit in this room and speak on behalf of the Ukrainian people. We have to do this before the 14th of November when all of Ukraine honors these people. I want to announce on behalf of the Ukrainian People's Party that 13 numbers at 1:00 in Skala-Podilski in Ternopilska were finally able to figure out where the UPA commander Roman Sukiewicz dust was scattered. And we urge everyone to honor this event and come to honor the fighters for the will of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u186	Paul Silent, followed by Rodionov. Passes the word to Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u187	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The topic raised here by Eugene the miner: about the unity of the patriotic forces, and just before me is an active member of our party, Mikhail Ratushny, who calls for respect for those who have chosen the right to our lives. I would like to focus on an important very important aspect of this topic. If we have seen a direct, mechanical machine that destroyed people and famines and wars before, there is today a silent, undetected war against the Ukrainian people. In fact, it began sometime after gaining independence from taking property from the Ukrainian people, and the land was now taken away. Look at the depression that has been brought to the Blacklands, which have brought more than our nation’s welfare! They grew up in weeds. The Ukrainian People’s Party has repeatedly protested against the earthly codex that has been adopted. She advocated the right to farming. All of this was horribly rejected. And you remember who played in this room the process that today is called the destruction of Ukraine? We can't talk about an information area that, in our eyes, is used to Russian messengers sitting on our television screens, that Russian TV commentators are sitting on ICT TV, changing each other, and pushing our heads and training us into a foreign language. Our culture is marginalized. All of our terrains started on the pitches here in the Supreme Council. And there was this big field called the area of the Ukrainians. And this area has made all the demands. And then it's going to be shaded into orange. It's a Ukrainian field, with Ukrainian requirements: Ukrainian language, Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian economy, Ukrainian agriculture -- not what's called some small interest in small people, but great interests. They're the ones who actually discredited the President with his ideology. Today they're attacking it from the bottom, from the inside, and we have to stop this process because it's a ruin to the state at all. And the Ukrainian People’s Party has on more than one occasion claimed that only by uniting ourselves together can we change the situation in all areas in the following year. And so I urge everyone to support our initiatives and our ideas. I think that it is not necessary to convince here that there is a need not only for respect but also for specific political processes. The whole Ukrainian intelligence has supported Yushchenka, and the whole Ukrainian intelligence has to come together around the problems that there's no one to solve but ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u188	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. He is quick to convey the word to Rahan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u189	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. As a reference to the previous statement, I would like to say that if it were not for the Soviet authorities, there would not be a State of Ukraine -- this is the answer to all of your uses. But now it's about a friend. In the town of Hartzizsk, Donetsk District, 22.07.2005, local authorities were seized with the participation of the prosecutor, Harcisk Timofiev, a staff member of the Rudenko SBU, police officers. This was directly led by the Deputy Chairman of the Donetsk Region's Administration, Socialist Grincak Yuri Nikolajevic. In general, according to Winsky, one of the leaders of the Social Party, two real partners remained with the President: the socialists and Our Ukraine. There you go. A group of these partners, referred to as oranges from several cities in the area, had taken over the building by force. They forcefully overthrown, convened an electoral commission, which overturned the results of the 2002 election of the city president. Since then, there has been a seizure of power in the city and political persecution has begun. All the city's law enforcement authorities and the areas of the declaration of lawlessness do not respond and, on the contrary, are actively involved in this lawlessness. Even the decision of the court, which overturned the decision of the electoral commission as unlawfully implemented, and the group of impostors continues to dispose of budgetary resources, reprisals against staff members in general, even members of the council who do not agree with them. All of this has been made possible by facilitating the force structures of the area in the face of Prosecutor Baganz and militia personnel. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when the building was completely seized, my receptionist was evicted as a national deputy of Ukraine. A request was sent to the Attorney-General's Office to address the inhabitants of the city of Hartzska. There's no answer. Thus, in the city, illegal power, and in my view, the only solution in this situation would be to apply the so-called zero option. However, Socialist Grinczak's supporters disagree. Accordingly, it was decided on 14 October for the Regional Compartia of Ukraine to conduct a regional action involving 3,000 persons. This does not preclude the possibility of pre-emption of access by 2-3 hours to the premises of the Hartz City Council with cabinets. During this period, I ask the law enforcement authorities of the Donetsk region to exercise reasonableness and address the issue of Hartzizka by law. Action 14 October is a warning that any attempt to falsify the elections in the Donetsk region will have an adequate response. We have set up pressure groups for this. I request that this statement be considered a notification to the authorities in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u190	Thank you. Anatoly Rahanski, “Go Ukraine!” According to Ruzick, he is passed on by Usachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u191	Anatoly Rahanski, “Go, Ukraine!”, interfractional association “Deputy-blacks”. I was forced to come to this rostrum and report with funding on the approved list of sites financed in 2005 on the basis of State Budget subsidies to local gas pipelines, drainage, and gasification of urban areas, particularly rural areas. I address Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. Yuri Ivanovich, by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of August 3, 2005, 687. Four hundred and twenty million dollars should be allocated for the gasification of the rural area. It doesn't matter who took the decision. We have one cabinet. Figures may change, the prime ministers and their deputies may change, and the decision remains. So I would also like to say that in the Sava region in the villages of Molochny, Career, Suvorovo, large work has been started and the trenches have been dug for about 15 kilometers. What do you want to do? To people. so that these trances may be. Did they drop off so the gas wouldn't run? We won't let that happen. I've been asked by my voters to tell you that if the funds are not allocated and the funds are not allocated to all of Ukraine, only 35 percent are funded for gasification today. And I'm just going to have to warn you, then people will just walk out and rally not here on the field, but set up the playgrounds in the villages. This will not be a single field throughout Ukraine, but will be held in the 36,000 villages that are in Ukraine today. I would also like to pay attention to drilling wells. The cost of drilling wells is also allocated and these costs are not allocated today, they are prescribed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and in the budget of 30 million dollars are allocated for drilling wells. What are we doing? Today, we are the country that is provided with drinking water in rural areas, the worst in Europe, and we will talk about how we are likely to complete these objects in the following year. No, we're not going to let that happen, and I'm asking you, Adam Ivanovich, to consider my statement as a deputy request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Larissa Usachenko. She is followed by the word of Micah the Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u193	Larissa Usachenko, "Our Ukraine" Victor Yushchenka. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Statement by the faction of the Party "Our Ukraine People's Union". The efficiency and transparency of power and its accountability to society, the reduction of the State's leeway functions, the clear legislative framework for governing decisions. All of this is a priority for the People's Union Party, our Ukraine. "Our Ukraine" offers society an anti-corruption programme and, in particular, a series of concrete actions. Taking into account the use of the service position of some of the former heads of the Cabinet of Ministers, we propose to introduce a preliminary professional analysis of drafts and government decisions to determine whether or not they are based on possible corruption or favourable circumstances. We are convinced that the effectiveness of such a program will be greatly enhanced by the involvement of non-state think tanks, professional social organizations, independent and highly professional experts. The faction of the Party The National Union of Ukraine considers it essential to establish transparent and open access to information in the area of the circulation of budgetary resources, including in the State. This information should be published in the media, Internet sites, and relevant central executive authorities. Long ago, she came to appreciate the need for and to speed up the implementation of a single business registration window. We believe that failure to comply with the relevant decrees of the President of Ukraine should entail the personal responsibility of the heads of State administrations and other officials in the sphere of competence, which includes ensuring that decisions are implemented by the Head of State. The “Our Ukraine” faction asks the President of Ukraine to approve a decree concerning the declaration by senior officials not only of their own income but also of their own expenditure. The next step is to establish such a decision at the legislative level. Similarly, we express our support for the idea of creating a single test centre for introductory institutions. This will ensure impartiality and adequate appreciation of knowledge and prevent negative developments in education and science. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u194	Thank you. Yes, Saddow gave the word to Michael Melnik, followed by Anastasiav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u195	Mikola Melnik, a socialist party in Ukraine Dear colleagues, I am sorry, but I am forced to address the morals of our political officials, who have disrupted it in criminal politics, trying to save it from today's history -- the black lie that is distributed by electronic and printed means. I respect Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin for his erudition, his intelligence, his logical conduct of parliamentary sessions. But I have an incomprehensible, incomprehensible receipt for the pastaville that was printed by his party newspaper. I would condemn the hot, spontaneous speech of Mikaly Rudzkowski, who threw the Pascville at the side of the parliament's presidency if it didn't have Rudzkowski shaved off, whose apartment apparently had Melnichenko's fabricated films. Although the world knows that the tapes are not fabricated, they are real and are not doubtful. Each of us, if he had been lied so blackly to all of Ukraine, how would he have done in such a case? Probably like Santa or worse. When Mikhailovich served his master in his day, we all served and served some masters, and not all of us can maintain moral cleanness when your patron is unclean in hand, but worse, immoral, morally weak. In my opinion, Vladimir Mikhailovich did not stand up and retreat under the pressure of Kuchma, committed a great sin that would carry a heavy cross throughout his life. And to be baptized from him, and worse yet, to be translated innocent in this sin, will not bring cleansing or even victory in the elections. For the Lord will vindicate the innocent, and he will punish the sinners. There are many moralists on Ukraine’s official olympus, even though it is a waste of time. For example, when Peter Alekseiovich died at the hands of a man who fell under the wheels of his court, he was only involved. He didn't exactly drive a car at a crazy speed, and he didn't actually drive a car. on economic and criminal matters. Here, the morals that he adopts will not depart from the iota. Let's at least take the customs office. The human policy implemented by Prašenko through Skomarovsky is unsurpassed. I've quite stopped at the moral qualities of the two politicians. And killers and businessmen. The morals that each electorate can judge for himself. One and the other, as the people say, have a conscience and hands, although there is blood. Both economic equipment. The first of his actions is sin, for he knowingly helped the patron to execute the execution. Yet, I did not rob myself of the grip of human possessions. The other one's the other way around. For death there is no great sin, for death was a cause of ignorance, of debauchery, but it relentlessly robs of human possessions. You must judge by the righteous judgment of both. And it's not appropriate in these cases to excite the hysteria, because in my mind, I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u196	Thank you. Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction, behind him. Rudzkowski gives the word to Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u197	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Respected Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, dear telespectors and radio listeners, on 14 October, there will be a meeting on Kreštatika City of Kiev of former UPA soldiers in the form of German-Fashist invaders' helpers. On 19 September 1941, the ordered city of Kiev was joined by the first UPA troops to mark as the anniversary of the foundation and to reconvene as the winners of the entry into the city of Kiev. Numerous archival records, testimony from living witnesses, confirm the atrocities of U.N.A. soldiers against ordinary people in Ukraine. The people know of the death of her by the hands of the UPA hero of the Soviet Union, the hero of the spy Kuznetsov, the writer of Jaroslav Galan and many thousands others. UPA soldiers are guilty: before Belarusians, Russians, Poles, Slovaks and other peoples, their guilt has been proven by the Nuremberg Process. After two years of slave occupation, Soviet troops in fierce and bloody battles liberated the capital of Ukraine of Kiev in November 1943. Honey, it's a price win. Thousands of warriors died, liberated the capital. And my blood is here on Dnieper's wreckage. Among the liberators of the city of Kiev, in the autumn of 1943, there was not one UPA soldier, nor could there be. Veterans are clear in their assessment of UPA soldiers and their role in the Great Homeland War. The interviews and interviews of the 184 primary veteran organizations in Kiev showed that of 233,000,865 veterans, only 651 were worth the reconciliation, representing 0.27 per cent. And for a categorical refusal of 99.73 percent. Thus, war veterans, all who have protected their people with their blood and health, regard their land as the top of cynicism, the planned crusade of those who have not liberated but who have destroyed their people. The pitiful power to justify the actions and atrocities of the UPA U.N.A. who just appeared to be childish. We are the winners of fascism, and this has been recognized by the world, calling on the leaders of the country to reason, to think clearly. We demand that the capital's administration not allow celibacy or allow the former fascists to march on Krestatika.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u198	Thank you. Yes, John Boki has the words and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u199	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Today, there is no more serious test of authority than the situation in the grain market and in the autumn field. It's about the inability of government institutions to influence price policies in the grain market, to prevent crop harvesters by commercial structures at unwarrantedly low prices, and the collapse of sowing, in fact, the destruction of the village. Traditional vegetation was one of the most stable areas. This year, despite the government’s assurances of aid to the villagers and the announcement of the next year’s village, the grain that has always provided income to the farmers has become profitable. The villagers are already refusing to sow osmium. The increase in fuel prices and other resources, and as a result, the increase in the cost of grains, the increase in tariffs for their transport, has produced, made the production of wheat, cereals, and other crops a waste. Hence the urgent task of the government, to develop effective mechanisms to prevent the collapse of prices in the grain market, to stop speculation, brokering, and grain traders from becoming the year of the village’s death. We need resources to stabilize the market. Today, Minagropolitics can only declare minimum prices, but the government does not provide funds so that the ministry can form and maintain them on a favourable consumer and producer level. And as much as there is no concern for the minister, who is screamed by the village, all deaf and mute to this alarm, to this cry. The grain market is actually formed, not on the stock market, as it is necessary, not by state institutions, but by agrarian funds, by Ukrainian bread reserves, but by merchants, who offer peasants even small but living money. The state itself created this catastrophic situation. The Socialists have repeatedly challenged this issue, not without our participation in the Supreme Council's decision of 23 September, and it has been recommended that the Government develop and submit to Parliament by 1 October a draft law amending the 2005 state budget for Ukraine. Predicting an increase of 1.2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. State budget expenditure on the creation of a government-food reserve by an agrarian fund for intervention in mortgage operations on the market for grain and sugar. An adequate response from the Supreme Council could be the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2005. We, the socialist faction, handed it over on July 1st of this year. But despite constant appeals to Parliament’s leadership, the Committee on Budgets, he never made it to the session room. And this project proposes to make changes that would cost $90 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. And it would be a beautiful loan for the purchase of grain that would return to the budget with an surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-07-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we've exhausted all possible and impossible time, we'll finish. The only thing I want to do is answer the line and in the absence of a Head, in general, I don't think it's a noble thing to talk about people who aren't in the room. It must be ethical that when a person is present, he can be told to answer. That's one thing. The second, unfortunately, is said quite often by those who recently kissed the same Lithuanian at its previous positions and these. Again, let's do it another way. A comment to the newspaper, to the editor, and I think it's the wisest thing to do if we tried to invite Melnick from far America to this rostrum. To give him the opportunity to tell him everything he knows, to ask questions about it, and I think speculation would be over. Come on, I'm asking those who have the opportunity to do this, help him get to Ukraine, and everyone guarantees that he'll be untouched by the President, by the B.O.S.A., by the D.A., he's got everything he can -- a guarantee. Why he does not go, the Lord God himself does not know why he does not go. So let's say that this is probably going to be real then we're going to stop any voter charges. I want to remind you that next week we work in committees and factions. On October 11 at the morning meeting, the Government Day on the state of emergency on Ukraine’s roads and urgent road safety measures are being held, and today the minister said that 8 thousand people are unfortunately dying. On October 12th, at 15 p.m., parliamentary hearings are also extremely important -- the decentralisation of power in Ukraine, the expansion of the rights of local self-government. At the next plenary meeting, we will meet with you at 10 o'clock on October 18th. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Good luck.
