ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u1	Yes, please prepare for registration, Your Honor. Yes, turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:54]] 414 cards registered in the session room. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, the emphasis on this is that, obviously like you, I get a lot of letters from our citizens who say that looking at the events in the session room, and when I call the number that 300-400 people are registered, and they're really not in the room, it's indignant on their part. I'd like to take that into account. Our voters also express their dissatisfaction at the meeting about the fact that members of parliament speak on the telephones, read newspapers, or do not do legal work. I'm writing that this is an integral part of the parliamentary activity. But let us certainly take this into account. I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues. Let's move on to the section "To review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.07.2004, is being tabled. Registration number 2415. Reporter, Head of the Department of Public Service, Motrenko Timothy Valentinovich Prepare for the State Building Committee. Klukkowski? Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u2	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on July 1, 2004, following a review of the Ukrainian Act "To amend certain laws of Ukraine, it is proposed to amend article 7 "Responsibility for engaging in corruption. The Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. The President of Ukraine took advantage of the veto, and in his proposals of 22 July 2004, he noted: First. As a national deputy of Ukraine, a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a member of the local council, a village, a city head, a district, a district district council for corruption, the persons listed will bear only administrative responsibility in the form of a fine, while for all other persons, disciplinary responsibility is laid down for the same corruption. The other one. Other articles of the Ukrainian Anti - Corruption Act, which have not been amended by law, have established the administrative disciplinary responsibility of the above - mentioned subjects for committing corruption and other corruption offences. Third. The president proposes that in a new edition of article 7 of the Anticorruption Act, the law on disciplinary and administrative responsibility of all persons authorized to perform the functions of the State for its corruption. At the same time, the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration noted that, according to valid legislation, disciplinary responsibility is brought to bear by persons who are in employment or service relationships. Not subject to disciplinary responsibilities are the national deputies of Ukraine, the deputies of the Supreme Council, city, village, village councils, and the heads of appropriate councils. That is, not all persons authorized to perform functions of the State can be brought to disciplinary responsibility for corruption. We believe that in this part the position of the committee and of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is appropriate to consider. Dear National Deputies! Since the law was passed on July 1, 2004, and the proposal was made by the President of Ukraine on July 22, that year, the Committee on State Building and Local Government, after conducting its work, proposed a new edition. It is based on the provisions of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of People's Deputies, Article 24 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and Article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils and introduces a differentiated approach to determining the responsibility of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State, taking into account the characteristics of the status of deputies of rural, rural and urban councils, the heads of relevant councils. Such proposals by the committee may be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. By procedure? Please proceed with the procedure. Gmirya, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u4	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, I understand, we are setting a precedent very important for the future. Veto was signed by one president, and now we have another president. Is that what this situation is? Under the law, the speaker represented the President of Ukraine, but the President of the current veto did not impose that law. How are we supposed to be? Let us address this issue in principle, otherwise we may have very serious procedural difficulties in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u5	Dear colleagues! We've been looking into this. Let me get this straight. Obviously, I should have done it sooner. In accordance with the Constitution, the President of Ukraine, after the adoption of the Supreme Council and the official enactment of the law, has to sign it for 15 days, or make a pledge and give a reasoned warning. If the President does not do neither the first nor the second, he is obliged to publish a law that gains power. In accordance with our Rules, such a law may also be promulgated by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the Constitution does not determine the time for the President to publish the law if he does not sign it and does not at the same time promise it. In this case, your honorary colleagues, if we hadn't considered this law, and the President had committed it during this transitional period, it would have just been necessary to enact this law as a valid act. In this case, it is not about individuals but about the functioning of the State system. That's why there are no contradictions. Although there is clearly a clear explanation to be made on this point. Chubarov's reaction, please. Now Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u6	Thank you very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to some extent I'm fine with the explanation you gave, but you yourself feel that this is not finally resolved in our legislation and it would seem to be laws that were committed to the ex-president, the newly elected president would have somehow or confirmed the same proposals maybe in his other form they would have the same observations, or maybe he would have signed the law that was passed. I mean, in this situation, it would seem to me that laws that we didn't have signed by the President and that are today in the Supreme Council should somehow be confirmed or not confirmed in the veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, according to the regulations, after the change in the Cabinet of Ministers and after the election of the new President, all the laws that have been considered by the Supreme Council but have not been first read are regarded as reprieved. And that's what we did with those laws. In this case, honourable colleagues, there is a requirement of article 94, if I am not mistaken, of the Constitution of Ukraine. It clearly states: The Law passed by the Supreme Council must be signed for 15 days or consecrated. If we send for confirmation now, we're going to have a conflict. We obviously need to make this rule more clear in the Constitution, or we need to agree and agree with the President, to provide for it in a regulation. In this case, we follow the Constitution. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region In fact, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today we have this situation, we have the President of the country, there is a government that has declared a completely different ideology of fighting corruption, and we are still going around the country's head, the secretary, everything else. So to speak, administrative influence on them and so forth. So the fight against corruption certainly cannot continue, so the faction of the Socialist Party will insist on viewing, in general, the concept of combating corruption and the legislative base that is, but it does not work for Ukraine. So I am certainly following your advice, and we certainly have such a conflict that we today have nothing to do with those bills that we have promised us, or with the proposals of Kuchma. But we can make a unanimous decision by discussing this issue for 20 minutes. What should we do with such bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, we can speak, it will be your will, but we are obliged to consider and make a decision. If we think today that documents returned with observations, with warnings from the previous President of Ukraine, are unacceptable. Let's not vote on them today, and they'll be overturned by these laws, they'll lose their validity. But if we think the document is necessary, let's go from how much this document is needed for society today and make the right decisions. And as for corruption, you know, they say that corruption can't be overcome, it can only be led. Let's just take some real action to correct this thesis. Please sit down, Timothy Valentinovich. Yuri Klukkowski of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u10	However, I must admit that the document came to the Supreme Council with the previous President and was considered by the committee before the previous President on December 15, 2004. It seems to me that another interesting thing has to do with this bill and with the person of the previous president. The original bill was written by the President of Ukraine, and he was the subject of a legislative initiative. However, after the adoption of the Supreme Council, the bill was made with enough strange motives. It was suggested that there should be an appeal to the disciplinary responsibility of those who were chosen by the electorate for appropriate posts. We didn't quite understand how that could be. Disciplinary responsibility is known to attract a person who is in a working relationship with his employer. Yet, tell us, who can draw the head of the country to disciplinary responsibility, who hires him to work? The territorial community will be drawn to disciplinary responsibility? To solve this dilemma, the committee went a different way. We have clarified the standards for drawing on the disciplinary responsibility of the category of persons who hold their posts on assignment or on a contract of employment. At the same time, it was predicted that there could be no attraction to the disciplinary responsibility of persons elected to their positions in general elections. Such persons, in appropriate cases provided for by law, may be drawn to criminal or administrative responsibility. Therefore, the Committee requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the new bill proposed by the Committee to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, questions, three minutes, please sign in. Sign up, please, three minutes. Sign up for the question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u12	Thank you very much. After all, Mr. Reporter, Mr. Yuri, look, there was a veto, there was one situation, including this political situation. The president of the newly elected one went under some other slogans, including his future policy regarding local authorities. And yet, as you do, doesn't it seem that in order for the newly elected president to be determined by all those laws, including the veto, we would still be proposing to him by the decision of the session, let's say, to rescind maybe all those laws on which the veto has been vetoed, and to redefine on those remarks, or to add new observations, coming out of the program with which he's chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u13	Thank you for asking. I'll try to answer him. There are two possible options: The Supreme Council can, by one act, return all such bills with the President's remarks to the President. However, I would like to remind you that according to the 94th article of the Constitution, all these bills would be equal to 15 days. There's a second option that we're proposing to implement today, because today we're proposing not to beat the President's veto, but to enact the law in a new form, and this law after adoption will go to the President's signature, and he can express his will on this particular bill for 15 days. If we do so on every bill, we will be able to deal with these issues in a reasonable manner and time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u14	Taras Cranville, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u15	Yuri Bogdanovich, I don't have any warnings about the bill, I fully support our committee's proposal, but once again, when I get back to this, maybe we shouldn't be dealing with each other here in these situations? We have a representative of the President of the Supreme Council. I remember a few times the same situation before. He took the responsibility of making a decision or consulting where needed. Why do we not now realize the existence of such an institution, such a representative? As for the bill, I support the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u16	But I specifically asked the Head of the Supreme Council, thinking that I might be misinformed, but as far as I know, there is no such person officially in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u17	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u18	Dear colleague! Don't you think there's enough motivation in today's comments on the technology of working with the Presidential veto. All the rest of the reasoning that let's all go back to the President is to try not to solve specific issues and the option of mistrusting ourselves? Because if we have doubts, do we vote like that, I have a question: Why did the doubters come to this room? Perhaps it is easier to do - to honor the Law and how you propose to deal with the situation gradually and in a stable manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u19	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u20	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u21	Thank you. By the time I got my turn, the question I wanted to ask was answered, I was taking my question off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us listen to Yuri Bogdanovich. We cannot return to the President of Ukraine because that would be contrary to the Constitution. We are obliged to make a decision, and the decision of the Supreme Council is another matter. The committee has considered, and we trust our colleagues, and we propose to adopt the law in a new edition. By the way, it's based on the amendments made by the people's deputies in Ukraine. And there's only one amendment by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine will have the right and the opportunity to apply the veto to this law if he does not agree with its contents. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A motion for adoption is put to the vote in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.07.2004, registration number 2415. Please vote. [[16:19:53]] For 265 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on the Concept of State Policy in Culture 2004-2007, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 04.11.2004, is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Deputy Minister Kohan. Please. Get ready from the committee. Is Les Stepanovich there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u23	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me inform you that the Ukrainian Supreme Council adopted on 8 October 2004 the Ukrainian Act on the Concept of State Policy in Culture 2005-2007 imposed the veto of the President of Ukraine for such reasons. As defined in the proposals, the concept of State policy in the field of culture for 2005-2007, which was approved by the law, is not a comprehensive legal instrument in the established understanding with the principle of a new approach to public policy in the field of culture, and is, in fact, a fairly eloquent publicist material in which there is no systematic analysis of the state-of-the-art culture in the country, only some views on this and possible ways of overcoming shortcomings in the area indicated. The concept also does not contain an overview of cultural legislation, nor does it describe all necessary amendments and additions to existing legislation. Some positions of the Constitution are quite contentious and that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and its laws. The concept contains contradictions and disagreements, and the concept uses concepts and terminology that are not or are not even consistent with Ukrainian legislation. The concept lacks the only terminology for using concepts. For example, public policy in the field of culture is defined as Ukrainian politics, cultural politics, cultural and national policies, national cultural policies, etc. Honourable National Deputies, the concept of State policy in the field of culture for the years 2005-2007, worked with the President of Ukraine's proposals, worked out in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Second of March this year, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Culture. And for your consideration today, it's a finalized and final version. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u24	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. Light up on the board. Please, three minutes. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u25	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Please state the concept of state policy in the field of culture for 2005-2007. As in this case, it takes into account what we've been listening to on film development, like us. and how do we progress after adopting this concept of financing? Is there any hope that those articles that are written about funding, that they will still be provided with real money and that we will move forward with this problem even in a period of time? The third question is the period from 2005 to 2007, which we put. Did it have to be written for longer periods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u26	Thank you for asking. In terms of funding, do you mean film or even cultural financing? Really? Well, the point is that one of the provisions of this law really is that culture doesn't have the residual principle of financing and based on the experience that parliamentary hearings have had on film matters, it's really a question that today could no longer be silenced or closed to its eyes, covering up the words of the absence of Ukrainian cinema as such. In our opinion and in the view of the committee, it is this very sophisticated concept that really opens up, let's say, the real path for both financing and working out the concept of national culture as such. I mean, time has also been discussed, we've been looking, we just don't have time for longer views of positions and cultural issues. It seems to me that this time is absolutely normal for this concept to work in today's conditions. Because if you make a larger time limit, it'll just start. It won't be worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u27	Please, Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u28	Please tell me, as you think, this is the same parliamentary hearing on the development of cinematography that has been discussed, and the problem is that, as I understand it, I do not understand how the State will help cinematography. Why? Because there have been new developments, including the Deputy Prime Minister for the Social Unit, in his report, he said: “To the maximum of what you can count on is partial funding from the State. Everything else, dear cinematographers look for themselves." Which caused, it's easy to say, a misunderstanding of the hall in any case, as I've seen and heard, and how I understand the situation. It will not be possible that this decision, which we will take today, is in fact contrary to the position of today's Government, which insists on attracting only mecents as an incentive for cultural development, and in fact it will simply be an empty document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u29	So if you don't mind, I'll answer your question at the movies. If you listened carefully to parliamentary hearings, it was mainly about a fundamentally new concept. The fact is that, today, the financing of movies in Ukraine is in the form of a confession, which implies, of course, 100 per cent of the funding of projects. To date, we cannot, of course, cover the number of scenarios and applications that have been submitted. It is now being considered to define the policy of State support for cinema as a country's policy and to promote cinema as a commercial art that can earn money. In this regard, of course, the focus will be on young cinematographers, their first steps, their first work from two to three parts, which will be fully funded by the State. Of course, they will be financed, I think, 100% of the projects that define the country's policies in this form of art, but will also be by improving the legislative base and translating the national cinema into modern form, that is, the production cinema, and the cinema, let's say, for a wide audience and to be in the general commercial product that it is in almost all countries, i.e. one does not exclude the other. Of course, without 100% funding, at least young cinematographers, to enable them to implement in the first phase. The development of a national cinema cannot be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u30	Thank you, sit down, please. Corresponding to the Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Tanjuk Les Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u31	Les Tanjuk. Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind myself that this concept of state policy in the field of culture, we have already voted with you. We then obtained 260 votes, and no fundamental problems arose. Kuchma vetoed the Law, largely on formal grounds. Regrettably, his suggestions were only wishful thinking, but there was no sharp detail. That's why we had to drag on this problem, but we finished it with the advisory board at the committee, along with the assets of our creative communities and with the Ministry of Culture. The concept is based on a vision of a completely new approach to the formation and implementation of state policy. Well, first of all, we think that by 1 July 2006, we need to develop and approve state social standards for the provision of population services in a state-guaranteed culture. As well as the method of determining the size of financial security, the State's social standards for providing services to the population in the area of culture, which are guaranteed by the state in terms of per capita. We have these standards, we have calculations in education, we don't have any standards in culture. The village dweller is impressed because these standards do not extend to him, and a large city dweller is given more opportunities. We have to reverse the trend where money was allocated to culture from the per capita budget just to the territorial and administrative unit. Well, you know, if there's 20 museums in the city and there's 2 museums in the other city, there can't be exactly the same standard of distribution per capita. Obviously, there must be some additional mechanisms. to guarantee the support of these cultural and cultural institutions. That is, if there are 100 people living in the village, there is enough funding for either half of the country club or a quarter of the library. This is a mechanical approach, and all culture actors, especially in rural areas, are absolutely against it. The concept is that every Ukrainian citizen should receive a standard package of cultural and artistic services guaranteed by the State, the minimum to which he is entitled. We're putting a citizen in the center, so the method of determining the size of the financial security should take that into account. The sector's expenditure budgets should consist of the cost of implementing innovative budget programmes, which are determined exclusively on a competitive basis, the size of budgetary grants to implement a project by an institution, if the mecentenary invests some half of the funds, then the State must take on the other half of the funds, and the local budgets determined on the basis of the correctional coefficients that I was talking about. Well, we're giving this program a whole bunch of help to realize the status of non-profit institutions, businesses and cultural organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u32	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, be careful. We'll have two votes with you if one of them doesn't work. The president proposes to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Concept of State Culture Policy for 2004-2007. The profile committee, as you have just heard from Lezio Stepanovich, proposes to enact this law in a new edition. So in this order, I'm going to put it to a vote. The proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Concept of State Policy in Culture 2004-2007 is put to the vote, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 04.11.2004. [[Registration number 5565]] The President's proposal for a rejection. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:33:13]] For-30 The decision is not taken. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the Concept of State Policy in Culture 2004. Maybe Lesu Stepanovich, let's write a new edition for 2005-2007. Is there no objection? That's why I'm voting on the adoption in a new edition of the Concept of State Culture Policy 2005-2007. Please vote. [[16:34:02]] For 269 The law was passed in a new order. Thank you. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Responsibility for Violations of Animal Restraint Rules is being complied with, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 4574. Reported Jemelyan’s deputy minister of justice, Inna Ivanovna. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. On December 16, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for infringements of animal welfare rules. Without denying the increased responsibility of animal owners for violating their rules and supporting the measures provided for in this law to affect offenders, the President of Ukraine made two proposals to this law. The first concerned the provisions of the law establishing administrative responsibility for keeping unregistered cats, which the President considered premature. At this stage, it is considered necessary to order the registration of dogs and predators that pose a potential danger to the lives, health, and property of our citizens. In connection with the above, a new edition of article 154 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences in the first part of the word "unregistered cats and dogs" is proposed to replace the words "unregistered cats". Along with the President, a proposal was made to make changes to the footnote of the same article by deleting the words "earthfield and elevators." But the new version of this law, which was approved at the meeting of the profiling committee, which is presented for your consideration, suggests a more appropriate approach by making changes to part two of this article, after the words "and other places of general use" should be supplemented by the words "except places of general use in houses." I ask, honourable national MPs, to support in a new edition the bill adopted at the committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u34	Yes, thank you. I think it's clear with cats and dogs. No questions asked. Have a seat, please. We have a very serious problem. Yes, from the School Committee. Andrew Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u35	Thank you. Andrew School is the head of the committee’s committee for law enforcement. Well, about the bill of responsibility for violating animal welfare rules, in principle, the committee, after discussing the bill, concluded that it could be supported in the first reading, but it was ambiguous discussion, a unanimous decision. So I'm going to say in person that, you know, when you take these goals and tasks of the project, very often the objectives and tasks of the project don't match that goal, which is that the purpose of the bill doesn't match the goals that are stated there. Therefore, it is not always possible to clearly define the bill itself and foresee the responsibility of the owners for keeping animals. On the other hand, I say how this bill can be supported in the first reading because it has been updated. And, frankly, I'd still like the animal owners to be responsible not so much for the behavior and reflexes of their foster parents, but also for them to be responsible for the order in the city, because very often, when you go out into the city after the morning walk of animals, there's a lot of going around their leftovers. So there's still some nuance in this. But I think it's not the Ministry of Justice, it's our committee for municipal construction, and it's the responsibility of the city. It is the city’s obligation to care carefully for its animals. To be honest, I say that on the first reading, after a lengthy discussion, the committee decided to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u36	Andriy Vasilovich, it's not about the first reading, it's about the President's proposals and the new editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u37	I'm saying that the first time I read it, it was supported here, and the suggestions that were given, I don't think that this really affected the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u38	Yes, thank you, we'll be sure. With motive? Sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Yes, please, three minutes. Nigga, behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u39	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are obliged to provide human treatment for animals, although there is not always a human attitude toward humans, but we must care for our younger brothers. This bill, amended by the President, proposes to register cats. As you know, the cat is walking on its own, and so the need to register it, I don't think it exists. I propose to support the bill in the drafting of the profile committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u40	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u41	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, today's discussion of this bill is a vivid example of how bourgeois democracy distracts attention from the more urgent needs and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our society. My colleague, who spoke to me, said that today we should take more care not of our smaller brothers, especially those who need attention, but of children, single women, disabled pensioners, and so on. So the saturation of the day's order with this particular problem is evidenced by the behavior of the bourgeois Supreme Council and the bourgeois government of capitalist ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u42	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u43	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, we do have the Customs Code to date, a number of education laws. Well, let's leave the dogs and the cats alone, especially since the President's normal remarks were very strong. Let's vote, and let's not waste any time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u44	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, we are holy people with you. At a time when human rights violations are referred to everywhere, we are discussing and listening to such a thorough report of the committee of the profile on who to give preference to: dogs or cats, by law. So all I can do is agree with my colleagues here and say that let's go back to people, deal with people, and then some other time with cats and dogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u46	A miner, please. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I am sure that we will deal with this global problem. But let's still decide that we're voting: on the first reading, or on the new edition that the President should sign? Well, the committee just gave some kind of interpretation that I didn't understand at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u48	I'll explain before the vote what the committee wanted. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u49	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a very fresh observation by the Chief Legal Authority, which shows you and analyzes that we have unfortunately made a mistake. And then you didn't listen to me when I told you that the addition of the Criminal Code creates artificial competition for the new article 264 with the symbol one and article 251 of the already in force code. In addition, the law is designed to supplement article 154 of the Code of Administrative Offences in a new edition. These articles contain what is called a blank display, which establishes criminal and administrative responsibility for violating animal restraint rules, and when criminal and administrative responsibility is established for violating dog, cat and predatory rules, it is appropriate to make many other clarifications. This law is not ready, cannot be presided over, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u50	Yes, there has been a lively practical discussion of the problem, so we will be determined. I'll explain why we're voting. The President is proposing, making some changes, and we are now voting in favour of these Presidential proposals. The Special Committee proposes to adopt this bill as a new draft and to send it to the President for signature. It is up to the vote on the adoption of the President's proposals to The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislation on Liability for Violations of Animal Restraint Rules, registration number 4574. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:44:56]] For-98 Not supported. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to enact this law in a new edition. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:45:22]] For 177 The decision is not taken; the law is rejected. The Ukrainian Act "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on liability for violations of the rules is being complied with. I'm sorry, we already turned this one down. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting with Presidential Proposals, Registration No. 3283. [[new editor]] Reported to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Prepare for the Truth. Please, Ivan Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President has returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Act on Amendments to the Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, and is proposed to repeal it, as the law, in his opinion, contravenes the Constitution of Ukraine, poses significant obstacles to ensuring respect for the constitutional rights of citizens, the effective functioning of one of the important constitutional bodies and may lead to the destruction of the information security system of Ukraine, which is an important component of its national security. The law does not specifically address the principle of the status of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. The Preamble of the Law proclaims that the Nacrad is a special supervisory and regulatory state authority in the field of television. At the same time, Article 1 of this Law provides that the Nacrad is a permanent independent college body. Thus, not only does the law establish an internal contradiction in the definition of one of its basic provisions, but it does not take into account the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, which fully determines which state authorities may be established in Ukraine. Nor is it taken into account that, in view of the requirements of the Constitution, none of the authorities of the State can be defined as independent. In accordance with the Basic Law of Ukraine, all authorities of the State exercise their powers, not independently, but within the limits established by the Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. [[Articles 9, 6 and 19]] The Constitution of Ukraine stipulates that the composition of the National Council is formed by the Supreme Council and by the President on a parity basis. [[Articles 85 and 106]] Therefore, it is established by law that the National Council is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, a special order for the election of the Head of the National Council. [[Articles 1 and 12]] The adopted law proclaims the independence of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio and makes it impossible for the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine to influence the National Council in order to ensure effective activity after the appointment of members of the Council. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President are denied the possibility of releasing appointed members of the National Council, even if they are inactive, of violating the requirements of legislation, and of rotating them, if necessary. The law eliminates the current procedure for approving the report of the National Council, whereby the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine have the opportunity, in view of the results of the Council's work, to express their mistrust to the Head of the National Council, or all its composition, which results in resignation. The law deprives the National Council of such important functions -- it is extremely important to emphasise which are the priorities of its activities, including the protection of Ukraine's national security, the rights and interests of citizens in the information sphere, the provision of freedom of speech and the media. The Constitution of Ukraine provided for the creation of a national council to carry out these functions, first of all. The removal of the National Council of these powers is a violation of the requirements of articles 3rd and 17th of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the establishment and enforcement of human rights is the primary duty of the State. And the protection of information security is one of the most important functions of the state and of the entire Ukrainian people. Article 2 of the current law, which defines the main tasks of the National Council, the question of ensuring the implementation of State policy, compliance with the requirements of legislation, supervision and control in this area, is in fact considered secondary by the new Law. Instead, licensing is defined as one of the board’s most priority functions. This law does not take into account, in particular, the necessity of functions under the new Law on the Protection of Social Morality. There are many issues related to the fact that special requirements that violate existing legislation and the Constitution regarding the status of members of the National Council and so forth. Thus, the President proposes that this law be repealed. And I reported his suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u52	Thank you. Please sit down, Ivan Sergiyovich. From the Committee of Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, my colleagues, it is good that after considering the problems of socialist cats and bourgeois dogs, we are moving on to the problem of our National Council on Television and Radio. There are very intense discussions around the council, very intense passions. I have to tell you that on the committee yesterday we discussed this issue, in fact, all the members of the National Council resigned, the committee accepted them, now word for you, at our meeting hall. And I think we're going to consider these issues and we have to, Adam Ivanovich, I'm addressing you as the leadership of the Supreme Council, we just need to put the issue to a quick vote to solve the problem with the National Council, because today we don't have the right to leave the information space in such a semi-coordinated version. You listened to the chairman of the committee, just before John Sergiyovich Chizh, who informed you of the President's claims to this bill. I'm not going to analyze anything, and I'm not going to go into this discussion with Ivan Sergiyovich right now. I just want to tell you that the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information and the co-authors have agreed with the very many remarks made by the President, very much understanding that this is not a note by Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, it's a remark by his legal, so to speak, services. And I have to say that a number of comments are very correct, and we're totally not resisting them, and we're accepting them. Adam Ivanovich, if you have to, let me do it this way, really, I've been given three minutes for some reason, it's a bill, I think it would take five. I'd like to go through all the articles right now. In fact, almost all of the President's proposals are taken into account. Can I have a name that doesn't count? And then we'll decide what to do with this bill. Because it's essentially a new bill, where we've taken into account the president's remarks, except for two, which I find to be completely petty. Adam Ivanovich, how do you think we should proceed?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u54	I think we will act, as always, wisely and adopt this law in a new order. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have two suggestions. One suggestion: The president proposes that this bill be repealed. And the second one reported here on behalf of the profile committee, Vladimir Yavorowski, is that virtually all of the President’s proposals are taken into account except for small ones. That's one thing. And secondly, we need a bill on the National Television and Radio Council, and the committee is accordingly proposing to accept it in a new edition. In this order, I put to the vote. The President's motion to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting is put to the vote, a new edition, bill number 3283. The President's proposal for a rejection is put to the vote. "To" - 22 Now I'm putting to the vote, be careful, honourable colleagues, about the adoption in a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Council on Television and Broadcasting, registration number 3283. Please vote. "For" - 234 The law is passed. So, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, as you can see, the Council has listened to the committee's proposals. Now you and I are moving on to the next one. A draft decree on the acceptance of sites for the location and redemption of land. Registration number 7035. Reported to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Leszczenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! From the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was an offer to agree on the location of eight objects and the purchase of two plots. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has considered this proposal carefully and has brought an appropriate Order to the Supreme Council to agree on the location of the objects: The Yalta-Foros-Sevastopol gas pipelines of the BlackMornaftogaz State Stock Exchange in the lease, of which 9.1 hectares of land for 50 years and 77.9 hectares for three years; The extension of the generic landfill and the transfer of electricity lines to the state-wide open stock company "Central Enrichment Factory Kolosnokowska", of which 19.4 hectares are 50 years and 4 hectares by three years; a small hydroelectric plant for a 50-year lease to a closed regional investment company; four artesian wells, i.e. oil and gas drilling wells; So, a trade-off for peat in the Lands of the Smechina Rural Council of the Chernigiv Region, a limited liability company called Energresurs for ten years, as well as a buy-out of land by a limited liability company called the Azov Oil Company, 11.16 ha, and a joint Indian-Ukrainian company called Korasa, means an area of 3.49 ha. The committee notes that the materials provided are fully in line with the requirements of land legislation. They agree with the requirements of article 151 of the Ukrainian Code of Land with the relevant executive authorities and local authorities, landowners or land users, land authorities, environmental and epidemiological authorities, city buildings and architecture and protection of cultural heritage. The materials provided have also undergone groundbreaking expertise. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the stated decision on the basis. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the stated decision on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u56	Then I'll have a question: if we take this as a basis, what are we going to do with it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u57	If there are any observations, then we'll put the vote to the vote. If not, we'll all be together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u58	Once again, it's not a law, it's a decision, it's either accepted or not accepted. Yes, of course. Any questions? Sign up. Light up, please. Three minutes, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u59	Volodymyr Alexiovich! Of course, this is a very important question -- about the power to place objects and buy land, but I don't quite understand why this is being resolved by the Supreme Council's decision, as much as it is necessary and appropriate for the Supreme Council to get involved in this matter, and not where those land areas are located, those authorities first. And secondly, who are the land users of these land areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u60	Thank you for asking. Honourable Volodymira Kirilovich, on the point that according to valid legislation, the Supreme Council agrees, gives consent to the placement of objects and the redemption of land. And it's solved by the organs you're talking about. Well, on which land, we have a draft decree, there are already many land users and owners, and so on, I could count them, but the time taken for the report didn't give me the power. Let's get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u61	Well, it's listed in the decree. It's all in the document itself. Please, Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u62	Gennady Samofalov, faction "Regions of Ukraine", Party "Regions". On the list you indicated an Indian-Ukrainian enterprise. I would like to clarify what the area is intended to be and for what purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u63	Thank you. I called the area 3.49 hectares. It was previously leased to him for a period of five years for the construction and operation of a canned plant. There are now buildings of unfinished construction, and he wants to buy out the factory and the land in its possession.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u64	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u65	Dear colleague, please tell me. Here you have said that all the documents have been prepared under the Rules, the powers, all the stakeholders have been reviewed and all the rest. The Committee reads that in this case a draft order could not be adopted as a basis? If it's okay, let's vote? Or did something alert the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u66	I'm answering. The point is that we received it from Adam Ivanovich. But here, maybe our committee got a little confused by the fact that it was the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that recommended it, and we accepted the recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u67	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u68	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. The faction of the Socialist faction has a warning about two, let's talk, land claimants. You said, Vladimir Alexiyovich, that production was not finished and that you needed to buy this land. In renting this land area, the user may have undertaken to rebuild a canned plant there. Now he wants to buy the land before he finishes production, so he can probably resell it. And so the unfinished production and the area that this factory is dedicated to will no longer be built there. And there's more. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to give the floor to the State, because we would like to know from this point of view and from this point of view of the State Committee, and then the faction of the State will be determined by the question of voting for the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u69	Dear Michael Vasilovich, the point is that we are. We don't have it. We don't know the purpose of this company that it will continue to do with it, but all the documents submitted to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations indicate that it's building a factory there and will be. Run it and use it as a factory. We don't have any other documents. And we don't know about the intentions. If there is an observation by one of the objects, it could be selected from here and voted separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u70	Thank you, sit down, please. In the meantime, we'll listen to a representative of the State Committee. First Land Resources Deputy Mikhailo Jurkovic Garbuz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on February 26, 2005, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine commissioned further study of the material of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the relevant ministries and offices within a week’s time limit for the submission of an agreed proposal on the position of the government on this issue. Therefore, we consider the matter to be an appropriate consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u72	Yes, dear colleagues, let's either discuss the issues and fall down, or we will immediately agree with the government's proposal to pass on this draft regulation for further work. Well, they insist on performing. Well, let's do 9 minutes. Please, Rudenko, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Well, first of all, about this decision. It is not clear why the Supreme Council of Ukraine is considering a draft ruling on this issue, not by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the deputies. This is the first question that is crucial. This is a violation of articles 150 and 151 of the Earth Code, so I understand that the Cabinet of Ministers is asking today to take some time to re-examine the bill. The other one. It is not clear what this haste is about because the project is registered on February 2, this year. Next. Why the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations submitted it to the Supreme Council for consideration without prior consideration by all the committees, because our committee only yesterday considered and adopted a negative conclusion on this bill. More specifically, we have a few questions, but we don't know if we can divide this by five or six. About the ransom. This is the procedure of the Codex earth, when the affairs of local self - government are actually judged by the Supreme Council. Therefore, our committee on the question of redemption by two enterprises with foreign investments has no claims; the claim is, in particular, to the Yaltin Reserve. We think there are inaccuracies, there's actually an attempt to secretly privatize these lands. Why the agreement given by the Yaltin Forest Wildlife Reserve is 46 and 86 acres [46 and 86 ha], and the Crimea Council of Ministers takes its decision 49032. There's already an opportunity to analyze that 2 hectares of debit credit don't match. Next. Many other questions arise. It is not clear why construction and the project are not offered alternatives to gas pipelines. Because, in fact, 80 kilometers of gas pipelines in particularly valuable lands. I'm sure that if you analyze it, you can find more environmentally balanced solutions, more economically balanced decisions, and not touch the reserve, because in any case there will be violations. In general, I think it's necessary, or it's going to be overturned, and the Cabinet of Ministers can actually, given that this is a first-reading procedure, make a completely new decision not by the deputies, violating the Earth Code, but by the executive body.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u74	If I understand correctly, Karmazin is passing the word to Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u75	Thank you. Matweenkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, to be honest, when you read this decree, there are such twofold thoughts about the paradox of the situation. In our words, we all fight for ecology, and in our words we fight for a clean, transparent system of environmental issues. What's going on? In the territory of practically the city of Mariupola, which currently has the two largest metalworks with a coxochemical plant with a large industrial base bearing such environmental load, construction of an oil-processing plant is permitted. And today it is a matter of making land available for permanent use, for sale, for this refinery. Of course, I understand that the situation is beneficial if we today approach the position that is being built today. The more we pollute, the more we pay, the more money goes to the center, of course, the logic here can be understood. I still don't understand why we didn't go to this room with Vladimir Seminovich Boyko. With regard to what we will pay for the environment, let us stay on the ground to solve environmental problems. However, in response, we receive a reverse turnaround: 2 and 4 times the amount of payments is increased, additional CO2 emissions are introduced. In this case, simple arithmetic: a metal combination such as the Ilica combination, which paid 13 million for emissions, for environmental pollution, should therefore pay 90 million from next year. You can imagine, well, let's stop the industry at all, so to speak, on the one hand, but on the other hand, we allow the construction of refineries. So what's the point? What do we use, so to speak, when we consider this issue? I understand that let Rosukr deal with ownership first, let them deal with the owners who built this plant, deal with those debts, and here are the last two items that concern the Association of the Azova Oil Company and the Joint Ukrainian-Indian Company. It is understandable that these enterprises are for sale. And it's only to raise the price of the property sold. If we want to let that happen, please let's vote for it. If we want to put order in this matter, let's take it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u76	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u77	Dear colleagues. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. My colleagues who spoke to me said almost everything they said to me during the study of this bill and during its discussion with our committee on environmental policy and environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And what really impressed me was that in a few sentences, I want to say this, the Crimean Mountain Landscape Nature Reserve. Each plant, each tree on a stand-alone basis. This is a recreational resource that cannot be compared to anything else. And through this reserve, it's proposed to wire the gas to Foros and to Sevastopol. Of course, there is a need to provide gas, other energy resources, both foros, and Sevastopol, other settlements. But it's possible that if Crimea is the sea, why is it impossible to provide for Foros and Sevastopol with other means, first and foremost, by delivering all that the sea needs with the use of tankers. Or there may be another lane along which this can be traced. It's unclear, and there's no basis for that. So let us preserve a pearl that belongs not only to us, but also to the future generation, and preserve the Crimean Mountain Landscape Reserve. Well, the pearls, yes, the pearls, they tell me. Even in the case of common arithmetic, which was the same when you start folding with a pencil in your hands without complex computerized computer calculations, it does not match what is offered in separate areas, and in general what is offered in two hectares. This is where bad feelings arise and the desire not to support such a bill. Well, the joint ventures and their efforts are ultimately focused on buying and owning the land that belongs to the entire Ukrainian people. The same has been said. Dear colleagues, I feel that our common view will not seem to be supported by this bill. And the faction of Communists is very clear and clear about this bill. We can't, and we won't support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u78	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich. You have a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, I think there are two issues that make sense to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers. First problem. Of course, the issues raised by the mariopolitans here are talking about the environmental dimension of the decision. That is, we can make a decision, which we will then long afterwards, excuse me, explain to you why this decision has taken place, and what harm it has done. The second ingredient is procedural. He was absolutely in agreement with all those who had said that such decisions on the procedure should be offered by the Cabinet of Ministers. If that's what the MP is suggesting, it's probably not quite right. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to withdraw and finalize all of this. I guess that makes some sense. So without too much time, there's only one thing I can say. On the basis of this, there is a point to support the proposal to withdraw and work on the decision once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u80	Thank you. One minute, Buttercup. Turn on the Lechchenka microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u81	Vladimir Leschchenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Well, first of all, it's not a draft order, it's not an MP, and it's coming from a committee. And that's the order. The Cabinet of Ministers makes a proposal to the Supreme Council, is being considered on the committee, and the committee is submitting a draft ruling. The other one. Once again, I say that all the harmony, including environmental and others, including the Yaltic Forest Reserve, is still available. This is all correct, but given that today the Cabinet of Ministers has proposed to postpone the consideration of this issue, although it was also the first February at a committee meeting and has not made such a proposal, the Committee on Agriculture Policy agrees to move, and then the Cabinet of Ministers will consider and make a new proposal to us, and we will make a new decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to confirm once again what Vladimir Lechchenko has just said, that he has not allowed any violations of the regulations or the legal norms of the committee. Everything was handled as it had to, and the committee did it according to the regulations. And the second. We spent 15 minutes with you to get back to where we started. So I put to the vote a draft decree on the acceptance of sites and the redemption of land. Registration number 7035. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:16:48]] For the 15th. "For" is up to 15. The decree is rejected. The factions? Please. Yeah, I'm just going to read the factions that produced the positive results: The People's Party is 6, the Socialists are 7, the Union is 2. Question taken. Let's move on to the section "Decision from the Issues under discussion." You remember that we recently held parliamentary hearings with you, so we need to adopt a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the question: "On the legislative provision of the development of the beet sugar complex in Ukraine and on measures to improve it. Registration number 7110. From the profile committee, Secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Yukhnovsky Oleg Ivanovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! As a result of the parliamentary hearings held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 February 2005 on the legislative provision for the development of the Ukrainian Buriacocre complex and its improvement by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 1 March, proposals were processed by participants in hearings and subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. Almost all of them are included in the draft recommendations. Taking into account the importance of taking urgent steps to restore the strategic sector of Ukraine, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft decree recommending parliamentary hearings on the legislative provision of the development and improvement of the vesicular complex. In general. Adam Ivanovich, with one clarification, which has just been expressed by fellow national deputies, and I would like to take him into account. In paragraph 2.9., add paragraph 2.9. to which the Government is invited to consider the creation of state-owned laboratories to determine the technological quality of sugar beet in the following words: "including the definition of arbitrational samples of sugar beet." Thank you very much for your attention, Your Honor, and for your request to support the draft decree as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u84	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, for reasons of vote, write it down. Yes, please, three minutes. Nigga, behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u85	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, indeed, the stormy and sugar complex in Ukraine is in a very difficult state. The draft decree deserves support. Parliamentary hearings were held, comprehensive, thorough, constructive, and, of course, should be voted in favour of the draft decree. But what bothers me, as experience has shown, is that we make decisions based on parliamentary hearings, and at that end, the Supreme Council does not exercise its control function, the Cabinet of Ministers does not usually carry out these decisions. And we feel like we're doing something, we have a sense of satisfaction from what we've done, but virtually nothing is done. I would recommend, by the way, an analysis of the implementation of the Supreme Council's rulings on the basis of parliamentary hearings. I'm sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u86	That's absolutely right. But you, now in the ruling elite, should demand that the government do so. Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Please give the word to Lechchenk Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u88	Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u89	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm one of the guys on the committee who abstained from supporting the document. The point is that the solution here is not about the weeds of the sugar industry, but about 10 percent of the problems in the sugar industry, that is, about 10 percent of the questions that are reflected in the recommendations are about agricultural producers, and they are the main ones in the production of sugar and sugar. Another question. Of the 192 factories, 70 no longer works, 34 of them already cut into scrap metal. If privatized factories are not being used, then the State should ask about nationalization, perhaps even then doing other things, rather than cutting them into scrap metal. So I'm going to make a proposal: send this decision and recommendations for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u90	Please, Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u91	Vladimir Mystrishkin, People's Party faction, election district number 14. Our faction continues to deal actively with the problems of agrarians, including I personally participated in the discussion of parliamentary hearings on sugar beet. You know, unfortunately, the ruling today reflects what we've been talking about, but it doesn't reflect the deadlines for implementing this regulation, especially given that the government is about to submit a draft budget, an updated draft budget for 2005. What does that mean? That means we have to see those things there. They're working at parliamentary hearings. Including my proposal to finance the construction of new factories. So I would ask the government today to take this position into account, and there may be certain positions there as a matter of urgency to include it in the 2005 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u92	Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u93	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear comrades, radio listeners! You know, the whole state has been watching parliamentary hearings about the development of weeds. We cannot but support this decision. Of course, there are pre-processing, but there's a lot to talk about, points. which will be carried out by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. So let's say, dear friends, I'm addressing you, we're going to support this decision so that our sugar producers, our sugar producers, the peasants understand that once the parliamentary hearings are going on, we're going to make decisions in Parliament and we're going to support the will of the peasants. I am addressing you, dear friends, let us support this ruling, and then in the legislative field we will support those bills that the government will submit to Parliament for its consideration. Thank you, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u94	Yes, please, Yukhnowsky, a minute. Answers and closing words.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to give a brief answer to those questions that have just been asked by the national MPs, colleagues. Unfortunately, Vladimir Alexiyovich was not at the parliamentary hearings, since more than 300 experts participated in parliamentary hearings, but also agricultural producers, farmers, scientists, and more than 300 experts, who were able to participate in parliamentary hearings that were sufficiently constructive, well-balanced, with specific proposals. All of these proposals are practically included in the draft recommendations. Moreover, after the parliamentary hearings had been concluded, a number of suggestions had been made to the committee already written by the national deputies and a number of companies, which we also discussed at the working group and then at the committee meeting after the parliamentary hearings. But you have to take into account that the problems in agriculture are much more than we have just outlined in this regulation. [[Of course, Vladimir Alexiyovich is right.]] We were still trying to focus more on the problems of a particular sector in the draft decrees, namely, the turquoise complex that I think we managed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u96	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the Buriacocre complex in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7110]] Please vote. For -203 Dear colleagues! Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[17:26:58]] For 258. I am voting on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the Buriacocre complex in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7110]] For -269 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! Don't relax. Let us go to the chapter on inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. Dear colleagues! We need to put it into the agenda and consider today the government's draft of the Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:28:28]] For a hundred and I see the minister here. Sergei, please, just a minute. Explain why we need to make this decision. Please. Sergey Teryohin, Minister of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! You know very well what the situation is now on customs. The government has taken care of customs procedures. And as soon as we get to each customs office, it turns out that on each, let's say, containers, if you pay legally the rates that are in the customs tariff today, the cost of this is going to go up about 12 times on average. What does that mean? This means that tomorrow in all markets, in all price stores, consumer price index and price level will increase, we estimate, at least all times on TNP. That's why the government is offering. As it used to be: the container goes, the container is paid to the customs office, there, there, a thousand, two thousand dollars, if the actual cost of the container is 12 - 14 thousand. [[Just so we're clear.]] Electrotechnically, there's 10 or 20 grand for containers when the real cost, if you apply those rates of duty that we have today, is about 200,000. So if we don't want to increase the price level now and reduce the level of consumption of citizens, the government is proposing that this bill do two things: put the rates in a normal way, which will increase the budget's income, prevent price increases in Ukraine and take away the motivations of customs authorities for bribes. So if. You can make decisions, as you wish, you're national MPs, but you have to bear in mind that on the Supreme Council, not on government, and on the Supreme Council, there is now a responsibility for maintaining price stability in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u98	Thank you. Please sign up. While you're writing down, I'll remind you that you've not yet been deprived of a mandate and have the right to make a decision, too, you have a responsibility. Please, the question is rather complicated, it's not simple, so five minutes. Manchulenko, behind him is Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u99	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. In fact, we are now approaching a question that is extremely important for the establishment of order on the state borders of Ukraine and especially on customs tariffs. My district is borderline. The region is bordered by two countries. I know a little bit about customs, including the Chernobyl area. Individual customs officials have become billionaires, not millionaires, but billionaires from shadow traffic. If we don't change the kind of criminal practice that has taken place today, there will still be such a nuisance, and our budget, our economy will suffer huge losses from it, and the pockets of those who cover up the shadow business and the shadow economy. I ask you to support and include this issue in the substantive consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u100	Please, Solomon, follow him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u101	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, procedural remarks. We only got this important document this morning, 120 pages of neat text. We need to study this. When? Can we take this cat in the ball now? I'm sure when the government of capitalist ministers gives us a bill like that, there's probably so many hooks. But who doesn't get it? So from my point of view, we can't satisfy this government today, we need to study this document. And the second question. There are some lists in these lists, and nuclear equipment is said to have some customs tariff preferences to be given here. Let's work this out. What touches the consumer market is less understandable, and what concerns advanced technologies is that we have to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u102	Thank you, but let's just say that instead of satisfying ourselves, let's use something else: support, not support, because somehow it's not very parliamentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to move away from my emotions and talk about the essence of this problem. Well, first, the Chief Scientific Expert Office of the Supreme Council suggests that we work out. Next, our Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to postpone consideration of this issue. To date, I understand that we must postpone and let everyone who is involved see. For example, the Committee on Budgets, this is a budget loss -- it has to be tested in some way. The Minprompolitics Committee should also see what we're going to do. Because they're talking about an atom, and I've got the question: shoes? What, the shoe industry already died in Ukraine, there's nothing she can do? We're here talking about what we need to lower and enable us to carry our bedclothes and everything else, which we have in principle. I therefore think that we should look from the perspective of existing industrial capacities, jobs, so there is a single proposal: let us postpone consideration instead of making the final decision now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u104	Please, Melniczuk, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u105	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, because there are our representatives in the government and the government is submitting this bill. This determination, we should agree, right? Dear friends, I would like to say that we also have, in faction discussions, we would like to know and have a list of these products. We didn't have them. Right now, we just got it. But I would like to focus on another. Last year, 700 million people lost the State budget to smuggled mobile phones. Today we're talking about the mobile phones that we allow for peasants today, the villagers don't use these mobile phones, we're from 30 euros to zero. And I'd like to take another look. Which is why our industry is still lagging behind. Why we can't produce.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u106	Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u107	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. First of all, I'd like to address the deputy of the Supreme Council of Terhochin. If you know, if someone gives bribes at the customs office, and in what amounts, pass them to the court, the prosecutor's office, the B.S.A., and bring them to justice, not toss them into the service. That's the first one. It's different. You tell the Ukrainians that your offer today is to destroy the domestic manufacturer. There's a whole world of bribes. And thirdly, I would like to say that the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of the United States calls on everyone not to support any bill and no initiative of those people who violate and trample on the Constitution in part 74. Place your credentials, have the legal right to do so. And today you are a violation of the Constitution, and you are proposing certain appropriate decrees illegal or in violation. Therefore, with all due respect to you, we will not vote for it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. Just for clarification. The author, more specifically, will be attentive, the subject of the legislative initiative is no minister, even if he reconciles his office with the duties of a deputy, there can be no minister. This is not a bill by the Minister of Economics. This is a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers. So here. And the head of the government, you know, has been appointed. I'm voting once again on the inclusion of the agenda -- the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. Registration number 7114. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:38:14]] For-143 Well, all the procedures are over. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 79, Communists - 0, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 17, National Party - 4, Socialists, Social Democrats - Zero, "One Ukraine" - 3, "Timoshenko - 16, "Democratic Ukraine", "Will of the People" - Zero, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "Soyuz" - 11, "Centre" - 4, "NPR, "Republic" - 0, non-fractional - 8. Dear colleagues, let's see if we can do this. In fact, there are many questions. The questions, first of all, are in that key, and here you emphasized, by the way, this was highlighted when the Cabinet of Ministers met with the Chief Executives of the Supreme Council with factions and groups, and this issue was said to have taken the lead in this conversation. And that's where we raised those problems. So let's probably have them give us a clear answer to those questions first, and I'll generalize them now, and then we'll make some decisions. Well, first of all, they're talking about bribes, extra bribes. We'll have to cut it. They won't give us bribes. You may well be well aware of our Slovenian nature: You have to pay 100 - pay 20, you have to pay 20 - pay nothing. And so to my question, for example, how much will the State budget lose to such a bill? No one has answered today. And the losses, believe me, they will. The second question. On the question that was raised in the hall today: how are we going to destroy the national producer with this bill? The answer to that question was also not answered. So let's try to do this: ask the Cabinet of Ministers, and they're fixed by every committee, the ministers that are fixed by each faction: let's do this in the course of the week when we're working in factions, committees, working, explaining, we're not taking this off yet, and we're going to go back to it. Three minutes, please sign in. Yes, please, Sobolev, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u109	Sobolev, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, we all understand perfectly that if the bill is not being passed today, the government will have to prepare a new bill, which will also go through a long procedure. So at least we have to make a decision, if anyone needs to know us today, we can go back to that question tomorrow. Those committees that believe that there are losses to the budget or other issues have the opportunity to study and report to the sessions, because, in fact, we are now in a situation where Parliament is at the extreme in defining this situation, because only Parliament under our legislation has the right to change these norms in this case. That's why I would have proposed a two-way vote: either by tomorrow we look back and we go back to that question tomorrow, then we don't have this bill, or at least the next week's option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u110	Thank you. Hinzburg, please follow her to Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable national MPs and distinguished listeners, our voters who are listening to this question today, because this problem is not only for the government today, not only for the Supreme Council, but also for all the people of our Ukraine who are waiting for its decision. I'd like to say, first of all, the government is not doing very honestly today, putting the blame on the Supreme Council, which was set before the fact today, so that you know that the Supreme Council here is not extreme. She's ready to discuss this today, but if it were, it's a question. Second, it is absolutely necessary, I support my colleague, that we must go to the committees and explain where and how and why such a decision is made by the government today. And then the Supreme Council could make a decision that would please our government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u112	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u113	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Most importantly, I think for us, when we make a decision on any issue, it's probably the people who stand by the machines today, get pensions, teach our children, our grandchildren. These are the people who chose us here. And we are well aware that today's tightening, and I believe that this is the right thing to do, to tighten customs policies, to tighten border policies will lead to price increases. And today, without making any decisions, we are just going to hit those people who are waiting for better lives today, waiting for better economics. Therefore, I have this proposal, if this is not the case, let us now vote to put it into the agenda and to allow it not to be considered today, to allow the Government, together with the committees, to work and to move it into the room as soon as possible. Because we really need to resolve this issue. It's a need for life! Are we going to keep the country in order, or are we not going to keep it quiet?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u114	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! I want to repeat what I said here before we voted. Today, it is necessary not to make final decisions, but to address the situation at several points. First. What this decision is for the budget. And the second is for the local manufacturer. Find out what and why and why we're doing it and then take it to the hall. Therefore, I believe that our decision should not be final so that we do not put it in a long box. On the other hand, if you turn to the same Government, you have to do it at a pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u116	Yes, dear fellows, there was another proposal. I'll put it to the vote again. I mean, we voted with you to put it into the agenda and to look at it today, and there's another proposal -- to put it into the agenda today. So I suggest that the committee has already done its work, so I propose to vote on the inclusion yet, but without consideration today. Only on the inclusion in the agenda of a draft law amending the customs tariff of Ukraine. [[Registration number 7114]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:45:21]] For-160. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 63, Communists - 0, Ukraine - 32, People's Party - 5, Socialists, Social Democrats - Zeros, One Ukraine - 14, Block Timoshenko - 18, Democratic Ukraine - 1, Will of the People - 0, NDP, "Republic" - Democratic Initiatives - 2, Union - 10, NDP, "Republic" - 0, Center - 3, Postfaction - 12. Dear colleagues! I'm asking the government to work with the factions. We should now include in the agenda a bill amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of the activities of business entities, but also the author and the initiatives of the People's Deputy Gureev, and the committee of profile requests that we take into account and consult, clarify some points with the Cabinet of Ministers, so this is a matter that we are moving to reconcile with the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the aviation industry]] We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda and decision-making of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission on the Enforcement of Constitutional Rights of Citizens and the requirements of legislation regarding the preservation of State secrets and the secret of private conversations. [[Registration number 7026]] Before the vote, dear colleagues. Don't argue in the hall. Listen, this is a proposal from the Conciliation Board in response to those decisions, including the last decision made by the head of the Security Service that a criminal case has now been instituted that all of your conversations have been heard until recently, have been recorded in an illegal manner. [[I don't know how many of us are in this room, but they say a lot of people]] That is why the committee proposes to create a special commission and help, including by Parliament, the Security Service to deal with this issue. So I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision to create a temporary special committee on constitutional rights and legislative requirements regarding the preservation of the State secret and the secret of private conversations. [[Registration number 7026]] Please vote. For - 210. Don't you get it? The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -39; Communists -56; "Regions of Ukraine" -26; People's Party -7; Socialists -3; Social Democrats -22; "One Ukraine" -17; "Block of Timoshenko -0; "Democratic Ukraine" -7; "Will of the People" -7; "Democratic Initiatives" -4; "Union" -4; "Centre" -0; NDP, "Republic" - 4; non-fractional -14. Sign up, three minutes. Please sign up. Please, Kostinuk, behind him is Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u117	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. This situation very much calls for two bills to be put into the agenda of the daily session to amend Ukraine's customs tariff and, together with a draft decree to create a special commission. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put this proposal to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u118	Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u119	Thank you. Hinzburg, Communist faction. I'm just concerned that raising such an important issue, especially for politicians, when you're supposed to be working quietly when you're not being overheard, is not being supported by the pervasive factions that declared otherwise yesterday. I don't know why, but I wish something had changed in the state. Unfortunately, honourable voters, there is nothing we can expect from this authority. You can see what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u120	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Committee on the Respect for the Constitutional Rights of Citizens, no one else, and the constitutional rights of citizens. So if she shows up, trust me, I'm pretty sure there's nothing wrong with her work. One comment: I can only add one, unfortunately, according to the regulations, we must establish an interim investigative commission here, not a special one, because a special one is created to develop a legislative framework and, in order to clarify the circumstances, an investigative one is created. So, Adam Ivanovich, I propose this wording. Once again, I appeal to all: the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens, which is why this commission is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u122	Please, Rudkovsky Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u123	Hand over the word to Rudkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u124	Rudkowski will pass the word to Rudkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, we have dozens of committees created in the Supreme Council. We're looking at a two-year report from a special investigation committee investigating the death of Georgia Gongadze, this question is not going to go to the hall. We're creating a new commission, we need, first of all, to adopt the Special Inquiry Commissions Act, in order for everyone to come and report, and second of all, to ask questions about listening, we need to bring responsibility to those who have listened. Now the situation in our country has changed. If there is at least one fact that either the Security Service or the Ministry of Internal Affairs is listening to someone, then the question may be asked. We have decent people at the head of these bodies and they follow the laws and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u126	Yes, please exchange your thoughts, dear colleagues, please listen. The fact that such a decision supported the proposal was supported by the Conciliation Council. This is one, two, you know, once again, I'm reminding you that the head of the security service, Turkinov, is our colleague from the Yulia Timoshenko Faction, has violated a criminal case about these wiretaps that have taken place. And in the cutting of this criminal case, the profile committee is proposing to create a temporary committee, but I'm here to support Nadrag, an investigative commission that would be working with the Security Service. Those who say it takes 150 votes are 150 votes to create a commission. Unfortunately, though, we had so much wisdom in the Ukrainian House in 2000 that it would take 226 votes to put the procedure in order of the day. In order to resolve the issue, it takes 150 votes under the Constitution. So, please, I'm rephrasing with the clarification that the national MP Nadrag correctly brought here. Draft decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry to enforce the constitutional rights of citizens and the requirements of legislation regarding the preservation of the public secret and the secret of private conversation. Registration number 7026. It's about getting into the agenda. Please vote. [[17:54:12]] For 190 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 5, Communist faction - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 46, People's Agrarian Party - 8, SDPU - 15, "One Ukraine" - 14, SPU - 1, Block Timoshenko - 0, "Will of the People" -6, "Democratic Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 6, "Soyuz" - 4, "Centre" - 4, "NDP - "Republic" - 2, "Posafration - 12. Thus, the question is not included. There was a proposal by Kostinuk to vote in the package for inclusion in the agenda, two questions - the draft Act on Amendments to the Customs Tariff of Ukraine and the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Ordinance on the Establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission. [[7114]] [[7026]] I'd like to make up my mind. There was a proposal for a national MP. "To" - 75 Yes, Kostinuk's offer received 75 votes. [[Applause]] Yes, we're listening to the draft Education Amendment Act. [[for participants in the primary education process]] I'll continue for 15 minutes. Registration number 5740. Please, Vojsz Vladimir Dmitrovich, prepare Drogunsov. Three minutes. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law has been prepared for the purpose of granting the status of pedagogical education to children's sports schools, such as managers, their substitutes, trainers, Methodist trainers, Methodist instructors. In the education system, especially in the structure of extra-school education among other types of extra-school institutions, children's skills and talents are created by children's youth sports schools, where trainers, Methodist instructors, Methodist trainers, etc. The list of types of out - of - school schools that include children’s sports schools was approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers of 6 May 2001 at number 433. At the same time, the pay conditions for children's sports school workers are not organized, causing social tension and misunderstandings in paying for the work of individual categories of sports school workers in the education system. The bill proposes to give individual categories of children's sports school workers who work directly with children the status of a pedagogical worker. This will allow the issue of paying for their work to be settled and social conflicts to be settled. The granting of pedagogical status to children's sports school staff will be carried out at the expense of the 2005 budgets of all levels and the increase in expenditure for these purposes will be extremely small. According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the additional cost of introducing this standard will be estimated at about 1 million dollars by local budgets, and the State budget will include about one million dollars per year. So a very small amount like 2 million a year will allow us to solve this problem, which has discriminated against these workers for many years, who work in the sports sector and are actually teachers, but are not bound by our legislation to this category, and so their salary is significantly different from that of other educators. So I ask you to support this bill and vote it in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, from the committee -- they say Sergey Ivanovich is sick, Proskuratova Tamara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u129	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. I'm reporting from the committee. At its meeting, the Committee on Education and Science considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine, submitted by the above-mentioned deputies. And so the bill was prepared by the authors with a view to giving them the status of a teacher of child-to-child sports schools, such as managers, substitutes, trainer-to-trainers, Methodist trainers, Methodist instructors, which would allow them to arrange conditions for paying for the work of this category of workers. Such additions are proposed in article 50 of the Ukrainian Education Act. According to the National Committee members, the adoption of significant additions to the law will provide an opportunity to address the inadequacies that arise when paying for individual categories of sports school staff in the education system of Ukraine and reduce the social tension among teams of children’s sports schools. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft law can be taken as a whole, taking further into account the comments and proposals made. The Committee received proposals and comments from the State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. We believe that the bill should be adopted in the first reading and based on comments and suggestions can be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. And there must have been one such inadequacy, Adam Ivanovich, that there is a similar bill in the second bill of 6127 deputy Gurova, but it is somehow referred to the next bill to be considered in Bill 5716. So this Bill 6127 has more in common with the same bill that I report. And because there is a lot of common ground between these bills, the only difference is that the Military Bill is being proposed as of 1 January 2005 and the Gurova Bill as of 2006. And so the adoption of the 5740 bill will enable us to sort out a situation that has now arisen in the field of education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u130	Thank you. Have a seat, please. But, unfortunately, it won't be possible to sort this out, because since January 1, 2005, we don't have the right to do so with you under the Budget Code, but not before January 1, 2006. This is what I'm trying to explain. Please, Hinzburg. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u131	Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161 conotopian constituency. I was also introduced to this bill, which was passed by the national deputy of Wojsz, Vaszuk, and Shufric. And we also had to consider today Bill 6127, which was introduced by the People's MP Gurvoy. They're almost raising the same problem, including I already wanted to testify that the introduction of this bill on 1 January 2005 cannot be implemented right now, because budget resolution is a violation of the law. But I wanted to say something else. If we're talking to you today about teachers, academic and pedagogical workers, specialists who receive one salary from the Education Act, representatives of enterprises, institutions of cooperative, social organizations that participate in educational work, the project proposes that this article be complemented by positions that will include trainers and trainers, Methodists and trainers of children's sports schools. And in studying this bill, and using the fact that I'm on this important rostrum, I'd like to say that we have the most important thing in life, which is how I ask myself a question. And that's the most important thing in life is our country and our children. What have we done with you as deputies to ensure that our children have the best or the best upbringing to be patriots of our homeland? That's the children and the homeland -- that's the direct link. And today we've given very low wages to this category of people who raise our children. We put them in such conditions that the children who had led before were teachers who had previously been in preschool. They ran groups, sports clubs, and so on, invested their soul, and they got enough wages. And here came qualified teachers, educated and tall people. And today we have a direct commitment to our children and to our teachers to raise this plan so that the best people in our country are allowed to raise our children. But unfortunately, in 14 years of independence, we've completely forgotten about it. And today, a faction of Communists insists that we raise this category of people's wages, which they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u132	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u133	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we want to do with this bill? Do we want to fill in the positions and expand? Make people feel better? Let's see if we've done better or not, shall we? According to the U.S. National Classification of Economic Activities, 00996 — the activities of children’s sports schools, schools of the Olympic Reserve, and higher sports schools are referred to in the field of physical culture and sports. So if we make changes to article 50 of the Education Act and extend to these professionals the terms and conditions of the employees of institutions and educational institutions, the conditions of the workers of physical culture and sport will be abolished today. That is to say, the interrelationships in the pay of workers in physical culture and sports will be affected and there will be improvements, not improvements in their work. That's the first one. I'm particularly concerned about the children's youth sports schools of the Olympic and the Paralympic reserve and higher sports schools. Let's see where there's a job as a meth coach, this job can only be in sports schools just as high as sports skills. All right, she can't be in regular schools. So the goal is not achieved by this law. That's why I wish we didn't hurt each other. And when I got acquainted with the documents of the Ukrainian State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports, I saw that there must be a big, big question here. While it's suggested that the participants in the learning process would also be representatives of enterprises, institutions, cooperative organizations that participate in the educational work, and other specialists, that is, in principle, positive. I think the bill is, unfortunately, too "cheese." It would have to be written as it was written in the Education Act regarding psychologists, where it was written that they were comparable in their status to teachers. Let's write that those people who work in these positions because there's no meth coaches, there's not going to be, and these other categories of people are like pedagogical workers. And let's put a dot. That's it. But it's a completely different ideology of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u134	Yes, please, Puzakov Vladimir, the Communist faction. Follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u135	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The changes that have been made will help to avoid conflicting legislation in the field of education. First of all, it refers to the restoration and expansion of the educational base and the social structure of higher education, which is not provided by the State budget, because this can also lead to the gradual destruction of the educational process. Unfortunately, as has already been said today, budget allocations have made it difficult for the educational process to be carried out at the current level. For the same reason, there is also a low level of computerization of educational institutions today, although we are well informed and often hear about it, about the computerization of the Ministry of Education, but there is no place for children, that one computer today has 33-35 students in VUZ, and in vocational and technical institutions one computer for 120-130 students, in secondary schools 150-170, and in rural schools much more. That's what computerization and science and education are all about. At present, education needs special attention from the State on the part of material and technical equipment, especially the problem of financing. And in general, in Ukraine, in the last decade, there has been a strange situation where the government has been finding funds for anything but education and not science. In fact, many people are surprised by the real government policy regarding the use of higher school scientific potential. But we Communists cannot bear to see that in many higher and secondary educational institutions, the issue of education, the teaching of social discipline, has gone to the other side. Last year, 910 students were called to account for crimes. Many college dorms have drug addictions, alcohol. Only 15 percent of students engage in sports. It's probably time for the creation of a special research institute that deals with the economic problems of science and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u136	Volodymyr Tikhovich, we are now discussing this wrong bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u137	I know, but it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u138	That's also true, but let's go to the law on participants in the educational process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u139	This law also requires that the State should return to education, science, and educational work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u140	Thank you. Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not as simple as it seems. I share my views on the ambiguous evaluation of this bill. But at the same time, I want to support the paphos that it has set up to address the issue of raising wages for a certain category of workers working in the field of sports. And if we make high demands and expect high results from our sports, this may be appropriate. What does this bill propose? It is proposed that article 50 of the Law on Education be supplemented by positions whereby leading educators will include trainers, Methodist trainers, child-methodists training schools. That's the whole point of the bill. This is where the question has already been solved, practically solved, in theory, for example, what Deputy Carmazin said. It is also suggested that children’s and young sports schools be added to the educational staff. In this regard, the benefits that exist will be distributed to them. So the adoption of the bill will make it possible to compare trainers, meth coaches and meth instructors of youth sports schools to teachers. This will allow these categories of pedagogical workers to exercise the rights and guarantees set out in the Education Act. That's the whole point of the law. In my view, the Law can be adopted in the first reading, but in the process of preparing for the second reading, consider the right suggestions that have been made and will be made by the national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-03-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's listen to Vladimir Kirilovich's final proposal and vote as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Education Act of Ukraine. Registration number 5740. Please vote. [[18:14:26]] For 237 Thank you. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 19, Communist faction - 55. Ladies and gentlemen. Give me a chance to read it. They gave more than they could. "Regions of Ukraine" - 38, National Party - 3, SPU - 23, SDPU - 21, "One Ukraine" - 17, Block Timoshenko - 8, "Democratic Ukraine" - 15, "Will of the People" - 7, "Deminiciates" - 6, "Soyuz - 9, "Centre" - 0, "DP-Republic" - 4, "Postfaction - 12. Dear colleagues, for today we will conclude. The evening session of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
