ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:11]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of a whole group of Ukrainian national deputies - Kruk Yuri Borisovich, Novak Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Saligin Vasil Viktorovich, Sandler Dmitr Mihajlovich and King Oleg Anatoliyovich, aged 35. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success in their work. Dear colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meeting on June 1, 2005. Two questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, two decisions have been taken. Yeah, now it's an ad. In accordance with the Rules, I report the entry of Pobek Mikhail Alexiyovich into the Democratic Ukraine MP group. [[Applause]] In accordance with Article 4.2.2. and Article 4.2, paragraph 8. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag has been elected as the authorized representative of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Yes, now one more announcement, your honor's colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Usachenko Larissa Mikhailovna into the membership of the "Our Ukraine" MP. And Constantine's Eugene Semenovich is part of the deputy faction of Julia Timoshenko's bloc. Yes, all announcements are made. Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be considered for today, you have. Let us move on to their discussion. The question is about the election of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the Conciliation Board, dear colleagues, we discussed the problem with you. Imported by the factions of the candidature of Bogdan Hubski from the faction "One Ukraine", Yuri Kostenka from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Viktor Musiyaki from the parliamentary group "Democratic Ukraine" and Vladimir Hare from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I ask the head of the Counting Commission to announce the order of voting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to begin with the members of the calculus commission, and we have the members of the calculus commission -- the national deputies of Assadchev, Hinzburg, Grzezhev, Ivanov, Kalichenko, Karmazin, Kafaryuk, Kostinuk, Mother, Manchulenko, Mirimsky, Nadraga, Ryabikin, Ryabik, Sithnik, Sobolev, Fomenko, Crnowil, Chicanov and Shevchuk -- to meet in the room for the calculus committee on the third floor of these towers. We'll define the ballots, the forms of the ballots and the voting order. And let's start making newsletters. And after that, we are. Now, in five minutes please gather at 10 o'clock 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! We agreed at the Conciliation Council to hold the vote at 12 o'clock. Is there any objection? You know all your colleagues. We agreed, since we are already working long and hard at work, there is no need to distribute those documents that need to be disseminated in the formation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question, the election of the heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to inform you, Mr. President, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the election of the heads of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is held without discussion through an open-ended fixed roll-call vote, resulting in an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council. This is the first major position. And secondly, I would like to point out that in the event of the appeal by the Supreme Council to the head of the committee in accordance with article 4.4. 6 The right to nominate the post is due to the vote of the parliamentary groups and factions on the basis of the quota of which the committee head was appointed. In this case, the candidate is considered elected if he was voted for by most of the deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, as part of the Rules, honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote only those candidates who have been duly nominated. That's the quota. Dear colleagues! For reasons, please vote, five minutes. Please sign up. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski, please ask your question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Not for the question, but for the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u4	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for your statement and thank you for making a very precise reference to the Rules. The relevant article of the Rules makes it clear that this rule is applied when the head of the Committee is called off by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. None of the positions you have called on the committees have been called upon to do so. In this regard, I do not really understand why we apply this standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u5	Please, Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u6	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, it is a matter that the order in which we elected the heads of committees has now changed somewhat, not even a few, but significantly. Who was in opposition at the time received committees. There is now no opposition other than the Company. I therefore have a suggestion: All committees that belonged to the opposition should choose people from the Communist factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u7	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u8	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Regions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the "Regions" faction has made a decision: until 29 co-conspirators have given their mandates to the deputies, we will not vote, so that you know our motives for not voting. And the second. Will there be accomplices in the government today who will take part in the vote? We think it's unacceptable, too. This is the position of the faction of the Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u9	I thank Alexander Mikolaiovich for his principles. She was, in fact, a little late, and this principle came into existence. We should have talked about this earlier. Sergei Shevchuk. But I completely agree with you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u10	Please hand over the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u11	Andrew School, please. School, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that, in principle, we really should normally have called off the heads of the committees that are there because there are a lot of collisions, because we really have to go out on some common denominator of respect for the Supreme Council. Because it would really be safe to move on to what is called a batch vote and not run the ratings, because if the recall process were to take place, it would be appropriate to try a package that would allow for quick, quality and full voting in the walls of the Supreme Council. Because right now we're constantly hearing complaints that there's a committee head who's at the same time, there, the minister, whether he's the head of the MPO at the same time, and at the same time, the committee doesn't have an official head to perform the functions. By the way, yesterday there were parliamentary hearings with a fairly big question. Perhaps this question was related to the fact that there was no elected head of the budget committee. So I do propose to call off those national deputies of the committee heads that are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u13	Melnik Mikola Eutychiyovich, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u14	Deputies! I think it's time we came to the vote. Anyway, a lot of the committee heads who are working in the Cabinet today haven't filed statements, and I don't know, for example, Dustenko today is head of the budget committee, how are we going to vote on this budget committee today, on other committees. Of course, the Socialist Party can't accept it, because it doesn't concern us, but we have to come to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u15	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u16	That's an important reason. Basil Gavriluk, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would also like to express my views from some of the non-frustrational colleagues. Given that today, there are important bills, such as the draft “deprecating savings for citizens of Ukraine”, other important bills, perhaps more appropriate because today the issue is not ready for consideration, we can waste time on it, and no consensus will be found, time will be lost, laws necessary for our citizens will not be able to adopt and deal with. Therefore, I support you, Vladimir Mihajlovich, in the context that today we cannot further excite the Supreme Council, someone will like it, someone will not like it, but there must be a quota principle that was at the very beginning of our work. We therefore suggest that this issue should not be addressed, in principle, removed from the agenda for the sake of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! Attention, Your Honor, we need to make a constructive decision now. Judging by the moods now prevailing in MP groups and factions, voting will not be effective. But here was a suggestion that we should vote in a bag. In addition to the three committees that are vacant today, a number of committees are covering national deputies working in executive structures, namely the Committee on Industrial Policy, Education and Science, Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Budget, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Head of the Special Supervisory Board and First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. There's two vacancies. Perhaps this is how honourable colleagues will come forward: since I have addressed all the committee leaders with a letter of request to the court to decide on the question of their delegation, which consists of putting themselves under the authority of the directors, or the first deputy directors of the committees, to make the authorizations appropriate, if there is no response, then I will have to make a draft decision to withdraw them from the board's posts, according to the rules of procedure I have such a right to do so. And then in the package, we're going to vote on all positions and we're going to come to a successful decision. Is there no objection? Because right now we're just not going to get the result, I feel it in the moods of MP groups and factions. Then we'll take this question to the next plenary week, shall we? Thank you. The question of the election of national deputies by members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Rapporteur of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u19	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, at yesterday’s meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, considered a number of statements by the National Deputies regarding their election to the Committees. In particular, the Committee had previously considered a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the election of the national deputy of Ukraine - Antonyev, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Health, Motherhood and Childhood, which was submitted directly by the national deputy, Anthony Hanna Petrovna. Based on the fact that the calculated quota of the MPF of the "Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" party in the Committee is 0.7, and in this committee, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has no representative of this faction so far, the Committee has decided to support the statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine of Antony's Hanna Petrovna to elect her as a member of this committee, while releasing her from the duties of a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Therefore, it is proposed that the draft decision, which was made by the National MP Antoniev, be named after this draft decree, "The changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". The draft decree is given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the election of Antônie Hanna Petrovna as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7527-D]] And to relieve her of her duties as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management, and the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The draft decision is being voted on. Please vote. [[10:22:47]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u21	The committee also considered the statement made by National Deputy Dzong Valentin Mihajlovich, a non-fractional member of the Committee on Legal Policy. Taking into account the repeated appeal of the National Deputy and his desire to work on the Committee, the Committee on Rules of Procedure has decided to support the statement made by the National Deputy of the State of Dzona and is submitting to your consideration, honourable colleagues, a draft decision on the election of the National Deputy of the Dson as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the draft decree, registration number 7590, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Dzona as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy. Please vote. [[10:24:04]] For 177 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u23	The committee also considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich, a member of the MP 'Our Ukraine', on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. The calculated quota for our Ukrainian delegation on the committees for today is 3.6. Our committee now has two representatives of this faction. So the quota is not fully used. The committee therefore decided to support the statement made by the Korchinsky People’s Deputy. And you will have before you a draft decree to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of the Rules, MPs and organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7589, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Korchinsky, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the issue of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:25:43]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u25	Thank you. The Supreme Council was also asked to elect a member of the Committee on Rules, Deputies of Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council by the National Deputy Usachenko Larissa Mikhailovna, who was not part of any MP faction or group yesterday, to date declared her membership as part of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". Therefore, taking into account what I have said, the calculated quota for this faction on the Committees today is 3.6, the Rules Committee has decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Usachenko and to submit to the Supreme Council a draft decision to elect her as a member of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u26	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Usachenko as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules, the parliamentary ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7591]] [[10:27:25]] For 236 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u27	The committee also considered the application of National Deputy Kelestin Valerija Vasilovich, a member of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Dept., to elect him as a member of the Committee for Legislative Protection. Based on the fact that the calculated quota of this parliamentary faction on the committees is one, and in this committee, i.e. two representatives of this faction are already working on the committee, it is the National Deputies of Moses and Alexius, i.e. the quota fully used, the Committee has decided not to support the statement of the Kelestin People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Change the vote. Unburned, please, microphone. Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u29	Boris Bespaliy, the faction of Victor Yushchenk's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction, I want to say the next thing to the faction. Since our fraction's quota in this committee is not full, I'm addressing it. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Valentin Grigorovich, I'm addressing you: since the quota of our Ukraine on this committee is incomplete, which can be easily ascertained now by Valentin Grigorovich, he owns these materials perfectly in so many years, we ask that this candidature be counted according to our quota. I mean, we share our quota, our brothers, the Ukrainian People's Party, and we ask the session room to support this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! You've heard the proposal from "Our Ukraine," who's passing their quota to the Ukrainian People's Party, to the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. I am voting on the proposal for the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Kelestin Valerija Vasilovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. [[10:30:05]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 81, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine regions" - 5, People's Party - 25, Yulia Block Timoshenko -30, SPU - 17, NPP - 22, SDPU - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 3, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, SPTU - 2, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Prefaction - 6. Dear colleagues! A draft decree to grant agreement for the release of Ukraine’s post as a member of the State Commission from securities and the Portnova Stock Market Is there a need to discuss this issue immediately? Is there no need? None. Well, then, dear fellows, may I have your attention? I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on granting approval for the release of the President of Ukraine from office as a member of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Portnova. Registration number 7501. Please vote. [[10:31:34]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the issue of ratification. The draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Swiss Confederation is being announced for consideration. [[on the amendment of the Financial Assistance Agreement for the Hydropower Rehabilitation and Systemic Control Project]] Reporter, who from the Ministry will report? - Ah, Finance Minister Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Prepare Vitalia Homutinik. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In 1996, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified an agreement with the Swiss Confederation Government to grant a government grant of 14 million Swiss francs, nearly $11 million, to a hydropower rehabilitation project. This agreement stipulated that the Ministry of Finance would make a deal, according to Dniprohydroenergo. In 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine applied to the Swiss Confederation Government for the refusal of payment of Dniprohydroenergo interest and margins, which were to be paid at an annual rate of seven percent, five and a half percent, and one and a half percent, respectively. The Swiss government accepted the offer of the Ukrainian side, and the agreement was signed. You're asked to ratify the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which the Swiss government agrees to refuse to pay 7 percent for the grant, and all of the funds under this agreement should be used by Dnihydroenergo to finance the replacement of old hydro-aggregates for the production of new clean hydro- turbines with a more perfect modification, which excludes oil from Dnipro and improved sample generators produced by local manufacturers. We offer to thank the government of the Swiss Confederation for this grant and for refusing to pay interest and ratifying the agreement law in the form of an exchange of letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, perhaps the question is to the Minister of Finance? Is it? Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u33	Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you, which, as always, concerns the members of the Supreme Council. How much of this is really taking into account the achievements of our experts, the achievements of our technology. Do we really see here that the interests of our manufacturer are taken into account? And in general, I would like to say that I support the ratification of this document. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u34	Thank you. First of all, dear friends, it's not a loan, it's a grant, it's help. A grant that didn't need a return, except for the interest payment -- 7 percent. Now the Swiss government has refused to pay back a percentage and the entire amount of money is cut back on the Ministry of Finance grant from 17 to 5 years, and the funds will be spent on the special account of the Ministry of Finance of Eximbank, and at this cost will be purchased by generators exclusively of Ukrainian production. In addition, projects of an environmental nature will be financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u35	Viacheslav Anisimov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to my colleague Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u37	Yuri Solomatin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u38	Thank you very much, colleague. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Mr. Minister, when I now hold in my hands the draft agreement between the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, it is here again and again that the relevant structure of the Swiss Confederation is about the changes that envision the repayment of the loan, the repayment of the debt, and so on. Finally, it's not entirely clear from your report how will these funds that are coming to Ukraine, and then they're going to go back to some Swiss structure at the same time, and it's going to buy our hydroaggregates or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. First of all, not between the Ministry of Finance, but between the government of Ukraine and the government of the Swiss Confederation. It's different. Dniprohydrogenergo used the loan from a grant of 13 million 56,000 Swiss francs, which is more than $10 million. What is involved in this covenant? That this money remains in Ukraine, but the Swiss government, for the first time, has refused to pay 7 percent, has refused, and these costs remain for the company, for environmental projects and for the modernization of aggregates, with the involvement of Ukrainian producers, exclusively Ukrainian production. It's a good deal for Ukraine. It does not require any financial resources for us because it is a resource provided by the Government of Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u40	Yes, Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u41	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine. Dear reporter, on February 6th, the President said that all the deputies who went to the authorities would be appointed. You haven't done this yet. Please explain why you're not fulfilling the President's orders. Secondly, if you're afraid that this power is going to fall apart quickly, you're going nowhere, you're going to come back, you're holding the deputy's reserve.? Why aren't you fulfilling the President's mandate and being a co-conspirator? As a result, our faction does not trust you and will not vote for your proposals. Explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u42	In preparing the next covenant in Switzerland, we will foresee a similar provision for the covenant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u43	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u44	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I have this question, please tell me, under this agreement, will it be possible to recover the funds that will come to the Ministry of Finance for the construction of the New Year's GRES in the Cherniewsky region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u45	No, this resource can only be used by Dniprohydronergo. And I call two key uses: using environmentally sound hydrothorbines that prevent oil from being released into the Dnipro River and generators of improved Ukrainian production. It's a branch that's been put under a specific project by the World Bank of Dnihydronergo, so it's going solely for these purposes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u46	Yes. Thank you. Yes. Vitaly Hometicnik is the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u47	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting discussed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on Amendments to the Agreement on Financial Assistance for a Project on the Rehabilitation of Hydropower and Systemic Control. Under the agreement, the Swiss government agreed to grant Ukraine a grant of up to 14 million Swiss francs, but for a state-owned hydropower company, it was a 17 - year loan. The purpose of the agreement is to resolve the issue of changes in financial conditions, to provide the Ministry of Finance to the State Shareholder Association of Ukrhydroenergo or its successor to the financial assistance provided by the Government of the Swiss Confederation. All the costs under the agreement can be directed only to financing jobs from replacing old hydro-aggregates for the production of electricity for new clean hydro- turbines with a more advanced modification. This plugin shortens the deadline for borrowing from the Ministry of Finance of the State Enterprise Ukrhydroenergo from 17 years to 12 years, and also eliminates the percentage of what was said by the Minister of Finance. At the committee meeting, we invited the management of the state-owned firm Ukrhydroenergo, who agreed to change the payment deadline. The committee therefore proposes to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u48	Could you please sign up? Three minutes, please. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, please tell us that the agreement expressly provides that the funds are used by the state-owned shareholders company of the state-owned company Ukrhydroenergo. Without having anything specifically against this company, I don't understand at all the nature of the public stock companies. Do you understand my point? And so is there any risk to the state? And I would also like to understand the direction of the refinancing of the compensation fund and the conciliation procedure in Appendix Two, or they do not link us in some way to the most efficient use of these funds envisaged by the agreement. You realize there's an average value of 12 million dollars, and what can't be a little bit cheaper, and so on. Does this not economically bind our hands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u50	I would like to reiterate once again that this agreement was ratified in 1996 and its deadline is not yet over. The grant was granted for 17 years. So it wasn't a loan from Switzerland, it was a non-refundable grant. The Ministry of Finance has already granted a loan to Ukrgidroenergo. It is now a matter of reducing the repayment of the loan by the Ministry of Finance. Further, the same funding will be open within the same agreement, but will go to the acquisition of equipment that was said to be environmentally sound hydro turbines produced at the Kharkiv turbine plant. That's what he sounded, including the management of the Ukrhydroenergo. That is why we see that this project will benefit the public company.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u51	Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u52	I beg you to pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u53	Yuri Solomatin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u54	Thank you, colleague. Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy. Dear reporter, would you please tell us if there was an expert conclusion to this bill from the Ministry of Nature and the Committee on Environmental Policy? If so, what is it? And if there was no conclusion, where did you get the courage to talk about what was right from the point of view of ecology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u55	I repeat that we are sounding what was heard at the meeting of our committee, the Minister of Finance on the one hand and the leadership of the Ukrhydroenergo on the other. With regard to the conclusions reached on the Committee, we have only the conclusion of scientific and expert management, which generally supports the adoption of the draft law. And we didn't get any other conclusions from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u56	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Vitaly Yuriovich. So, what about your respectable colleagues? Shall we vote? Ah, let's talk for 10 minutes. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion. Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Please. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u57	Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots, respected by Vladimir Mihajlovich. We're told about ecology, but there's a clear evil. It is unfortunate that the Swiss side has insisted on the need to supplement this agreement by article 10 — anti-corruption action — that the capitalist power, which the Presidents of Kravczuk, Kuchma, Yushchenko, have been resuscitated by deception in the year 91, has proved to be extremely hypocritical, greedy, thieves, corrupt. The balls depicting Kravchuk, Kuchmu, Yushchenko in the form of a triple Yanus. But the main cause of our country's trouble is not in the face, but in the capitalist direction. Faces change with power, and bad attitudes, minds, persist. It is clear that the adoption of this bill with article 10 will not eliminate the above-mentioned vices, which are the norm of capitalist orientation and do not guarantee the submission of Swiss funds on appointment. Once, when I was cruelly dressed as a thief and immorality hindering progress, the reaction of the current capitalist agenda, I was asked: What did the Communists do in 70 years of Soviet power? The answer is obvious: Communists and people built factories, factories, combinations, agricultural enterprises. And the 14-year-olds in power are privatizing these enterprises! For the first time in human history, Communists have created free health, free education on a State-wide scale. Good experience is being used around the world. And capitalists in power claim: paid health care, paid education, which is inhumane, immoral, cruel and, of course, unprogressive. The Communists united the efforts of Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians and other nationalities, provided assistance to Russia and other republics in the construction of Ukraine's largest enterprises, and built the largest power plant in Europe, Dneproges. And the capitalist authorities are especially contentious to distract people from their great robbery and find no money to repair what needs to be given to the people, what is required by the laws on the status of veterans and so on, to replace the obsolete equipment of the Dneprov stunt. We're being talked about ecologically, but there's a reason here in another, and we need to replace the equipment, and we want to steal someone, and the tenth article came out that's probably why. The Communists will not vote in favour of the bill. Moreover, we need to pay attention first to Russia. There, you know, the 24th-25th was a shut-off in Moscow and other cities. Why? Privatization destroys electricity, capitalism destroys electricity. We must now nationalize strategic industries, including energy, find money for energy modernization and ensure the low tariffs needed by the economy and the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u58	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u59	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the construction of the Dniproges has little and negative moments. In particular, we had a flood of historical places -- the settlement of the Ukrainian people and the hiding of the entire layer of our history. Today, no one in Europe is flooding this and does not live in candlelight. I answer the lips. But I wouldn't want to do that. I would like to say now that I will support and ask you to support the ratification of this agreement, and I think it's very good that article ten of Anti-Corruption Actions has been introduced here. Perhaps this will open the eyes of the government to the fact that today, in the time of the new authorities, some schemes are still being developed that allow for the idea that not everything is transparent. This study of the energy situation allows me to draw conclusions about it. What is the bad news? What shares the shared concern about corruption that undermines effective governance, limits the use of resources for development and threatens open and fair competition? There's absolutely nothing wrong here. They undertake, parties, joint efforts to fight corruption and declare that any offer, payment, reward or profit that may be considered illegal or bribery, directly or., linked to incentive or reward, for any contract under this agreement, will be the basis for prompt consultation, exchange of all information and appropriate steps that may include halting the supply of equipment and distinguishing the results of the tender. I quoted this because now, in front of me, my colleague, whom I respect, I have treated this paragraph in a very different way. This point is the achievement of the Ukrainian government. Thank God that paragraph is written down. God forbid he's still going through with it, that's the point. And now for the moments that I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Finance. I think that because of the net figure here, Victor Mikhailovich, in Appendix two, "The average cost of purchasing and installing a single aggregate of 12 million sums of the compensation fund should be sufficient to replace about four additional aggregates." Well, 3.8 doesn't happen. So it takes four. But given what created the National Bank in a bunch with this government, by increasing the so-called bracelet, and, in fact, in currency speculations, I think we need to figure out here right now to make it clear on four additional aggregates.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u60	Thank you. Zarubinsky Oleg, faction of the People's Party. And Mikhail. Yuri Solomatin is next, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u61	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that the agreement, more precisely the problem that this agreement has to solve in part, is at the intersection of two important problems that concern Ukrainian society. This is a problem of energy diversification, and today this problem is becoming increasingly serious because hydrosources are as important as oil resources and all the more so that they are our natives on our rivers. Rivers. And the second problem is definitely the problem of ecology. Can this covenant solve these problems? No, of course not. But I would like to highlight some points that I think are of such a fundamental nature. The first aspect. It was signed nine years ago, in 1996. Nine years, unfortunately, that resource that Ukraine could use to, well if you go any further, clean up Dnipro, clean up your hydropower and hydropotentials, I think we should do it today. I understand that many people often ask the question of whether this money is going to be used and whether they're going to be split up again with what's called, what's left of it. I like the position or the sense of the agreement, which says that the Ukrainian government will keep a separate account for the agreement and ensure that it is checked by independent auditors. I think that when there is a separate account, only this program really provides additional control over how this money is used. And one more moment. A colleague of Pinzenic's said it wasn't a loan. I'd like to focus your attention really on that. It's not a loan to be given, it's a grant, it's a non-refundable assistance to the Swiss Confederation, a neutral confederation in all relations. Not to take advantage of this, I think it would be in terms of the state's interests not entirely correct or perhaps entirely wrong. [[And the Swiss are very environmentalist not only in Switzerland, but also in Switzerland.]] But the two moments that I've discussed with my colleagues, we've formulated, we've come up with, more specifically, questions. The first point that concerns the time of payment on the part of the shareholder company. The term used to be set at 17 years. Then the term was reduced to five years. And the reasons for this significant decrease in the repayment period are not given. I don't know the reason and I'd really like to hear in the closing statement Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's position. In general, I think we can accept the ratification of this agreement. Anyway, the negatives I can't see in it, the positives are in normal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u62	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u63	Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear colleagues! In fact, it's a very interesting bill, and we're almost convinced here that it's not a loan, it's a grant given to us by the Swiss Confederation. And even for almost 10 years, we've been using this grant, and there's this structure called Short-Corerenerenerento, which this grant uses to replace old hydroelectric power generators, which are made up of turbines and generators, which have not been rehabilitated during the first phase of the reconstruction of the GES of the Dnieprovos Cascade, into new cleaner turbines of a more perfect modification, whose design excludes the flow of ink into the Dnipro River and the improved sample generators. Very good and beautiful. But show at least one conclusion, at least one environmental expertise that is envisaged for the implementation of such projects, and that would show that this is the environmental effect, not just a declaration that ended in money being used, and for what purpose, that's another question that can be asked. It is therefore very painful to hear that there is not such an interesting draft of the conclusion of the Ministry of Nature Protection that passed this interesting bill of the Committee on Environmental Policy and it is here that there is a certain, even, great wickedness that could be halted by article 10 of the said Treaty, anti-corruption action. But who will consider: Are the actions that have already taken and that will be carried out after the use of this grant? Are they corrupt or anti-corruption? Because conservation agencies and executive and legislative authorities have been eliminated by 100% of control over the use of this grant. So I don't think we can work like this and hide something behind the loud slogans about conservation. Maybe the turbines should be replaced -- please, but hiding the need to replace turbines with environmental slogans -- is not very good and not very good. So I'd like to ask you, my dear colleagues, let's get a report from the Hydroenergo and give it to us, and we'll get an environmental analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u64	Thank you. The bill was closed, and before the vote I saw, my honourable colleagues, very much. The motivations will be given by those who expressed their desire: Melniczuk, Cherniak, who were recorded, Widowenko and Rudenko. And we'll vote. I called your last name. Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u65	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, reverend Viktor Mikhailovich, I address you only because I would like to draw the attention of the Government and you personally, Victor Mikhailovich, to the fate of Novodnystrovsk GRES in the Cherniewsky region. Improvising it, or we're going to say that Porcian Five, 10 million doesn't do anything. And as soon as the election comes, they definitely come with their pre-election stuff and so on and so forth. I'd ask the government to invent the funds to build the Novodnystrovsk GES. And you can see that the Western region is the only one from here that could have cheap energy. And so that the same peasants, the workers, the businesses, the companies don't pay three or four times as much as it costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u66	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the financial assistance involved. Financial aid is either refused by very rich people or not very clever. In my opinion, this agreement is one of the most successful agreements of all those we have ever ratified. It refers to the technological upgrade of environmentally sound hydrothorbines, which is extremely relevant for Ukraine. It controls the use of funds and provides for anti-corruption actions. All of this, I think, gives us reason to ratify this treaty today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u68	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u69	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I have worked in Geneva for six years at the United Nations Department, and I can say that this high standard of living that Switzerland has achieved is the result of the hard work of the Swiss and that they do not disperse in their francs. And if they give credit to a country, in this case to Ukraine, that means that Switzerland has high trust in our state. And even in their letter, that's what they're talking about. Related to the friendly relationship between Ukraine and the Confederation and the further development of fruitful cooperation between the two countries. We should be highly appreciative. And I'll tell my fellow communists that in Soviet times, the Soviet Union, the United States of America, other major countries were in line at the Sosheron plant in Geneva to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u70	Gennady Rudenko, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u71	Postfractional, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u72	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u73	Thank you. Head of the Environmental Committee of the Supreme Council. I'm sorry that we're trapped again when the government submitted this project to the Supreme Council on May 13, and today we're voting on it. While the Science and Experimental Authority only made its conclusion yesterday. So it was virtually impossible to process the agreement systematically. Electricity is an important direction in the development of alternative kinds of energy. This is what Ukraine needs, of course. But this is a powerful sector for private investment, foreign investment. The state does not today have a clear strategy for the development of hydropower in Ukraine. So once again, we're working on government rules, unfortunately, not our own, Supreme Council rules. That's minus us. Plus, it's probably just to support it. However, in the future, it is clear that all committees should be given the time limit and only after the conclusion is reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the consideration, please note, the matter has been discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We need to vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote now. Please, take your seats. The draft Ukrainian Law, Registration No. 0259, on the ratification of the Agreement in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Swiss Confederation on the amendment of the Agreement on Financial Assistance for the Hydropower Rehabilitation and Systemic Control Project. Please vote. [[11:05:49]] For 308. Decision taken. The factions? Please: "Our Ukraine" - 85, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 11, National Party - 32, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 27, Ukrainian National Party - 24, SDPU - 10, "One Ukraine" - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 13, non-fractional - 23. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, two factions have called for a recess. This is "Democratic Ukraine" and the People's to reconcile approaches to the current situation. With what? Please make a statement and we'll keep working. You agree, don't you? Let's do it then. Three minutes. To prepare Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkova two documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Calinchuk, People's Party faction, Rest. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The National Party faction expresses concern about the situation in individual regions of Ukraine with the cultivation of agricultural crops in the current year. In its time, a melioration system of nearly six million hectares was built to eliminate agricultural dependence from adverse weather conditions in Ukraine. In these lands, about a quarter of the gross agricultural production was produced, and in many southern areas, 30 to 40 percent were produced. In recent years, however, the efficiency of irrigation and dried land has deteriorated considerably, questioning the availability of planned quantities of agricultural production and, in particular, grain. What is the reason? First, the lack of necessary technology and essentially the destruction of most of the water systems. If there were 32,000 in Ukraine in 1990. rain machines are now only about eight of them, most of which have already completed normative terms. Secondly, a comprehensive land-melioration programme is not being implemented and only 1.1 per cent of projects are being funded to improve the ecological conditions of farmed and dried land. If, as a whole, the need for public water systems is financed within 85 percent, only a sixth of them are allocated for the renovation and repair of the core funds at the annual demand of 140 million dollars. The 2005 state budget for Ukraine provides 518 million dollars for the use of state-owned and inter-economic state-owned meliority systems. However, the funds have not yet been allocated. Most water users are unable to pay today the cost of electricity used for irrigation. On the basis of the conditions that exist today in a third of the country's agricultural territory, the People's Party's faction considers it appropriate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take urgent measures to ensure the efficient use of milled land and, in particular, to ensure the full and timely financing of the exploitation of farmed land in the current year, the organization of production and the supply of technical means to infuse all forms of property with the provision of long-term loans for the acquisition of this technology and the budget for its cost. Increases in funding to compensate the agricultural producer for the cost of electricity used in irrigation. Please consider this statement to be a statement by the faction of the People's Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u76	Yes, Your Honor, we are going to consider a draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other States to Ukraine's territory in 2005 to participate in multinational military training. At the same time, as the committee suggests, we need to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine. [[on the financing of the Ministry of Defence]] As a result, the report invites Ukrainian Defence Minister Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko. The co-report will be delivered by the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, respected invitees and journalists! I'm very tight. It is proposed to support a draft law that allows for the normalization of the presence of divisions of foreign states of partners who, together with Ukraine, will be conducting military training this year in the territory of our state. Four such trainings are planned. The plans are agreed. For help, I want to say that Ukraine is conducting ten military trainings this year, and another is being prepared outside our country, the ratio of one to two. All the information is actually given to you, I just want to say that the participation in these teachings, which are very useful to us as a military body, which also generate some economic gains, is being joined by countries such as Austria, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Belarus, Armenia, Greece, Canada, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Moldova, Poland, Switzerland, Turkey, Great Britain, USA, Croatia, Macedonia, Hungary, Israel. We also invite the Russian Federation, although after negotiations with Minister John they have determined that this year they may be either in observer status or they will be defined specifically by each teaching. But invitations are sent to everyone, and this is a normal opportunity for cooperation. I ask you very much to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the Secretary of Defense? Please sign up, three minutes. Show me the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Valerius Lebedivsky, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your report. I want to point out that the world community generally appreciates the degree of military readiness of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, its participation in various international operations where Ukraine takes part. And this raises the authority of the state of Ukraine in the world’s compatriot. Do you think that participating in these educational activities will continue to promote Ukraine’s authority in the international arena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. I'm giving you a solid answer to your question, because this is an element of the mutual compatibility of our military actions with the military countries I've called, of actions aimed at strengthening security in the region on the European continent. We are now carrying out important peacekeeping tasks. In theory, these conflict issues can be put on a daily basis at any time and the willingness to act together, speaking one military doctrinal language is a very important acquisition. And the fact that such training has been done for many years, and they have already come to a level from guile to battalional, brigade teaching is also an element of confirmation of a positive answer to your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u80	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u81	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Mr. Minister! France and Holland knocked out the Constitution of the European Union yesterday. Europe is full of violent comments on this issue and even questions about the relevance of the continued existence of NATO. That's the first one. And the second. The question of the purpose of further enlargement of Europe is the way Ukraine itself has seen it. Please say, from this point of view, from the point of view of these events, which are so hot, whether they are appropriate, or whether we are opening up the territory of Ukraine to those military structures whose feet should not be on the territory of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. Well, what I'm saying right now is that the question is something outside this bill, although I'm not a minister, and as an expert citizen, I can express my own point of view that I don't think there was a knockout under the Constitution. I think she'll be accepted someday. And it's going to be adopted in one way or another, it doesn't question in any way the purpose of these teachings and the purpose of working together with Ukrainian military work in this direction. I do not want to comment now on the future of NATO, the future of the EU, which goes beyond this discussion. If you want, we can talk to you later. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u83	Thank you, too, Anatoly Stepanovich. Please sit down for a while. The co-report invites the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee reviewed the President's proposal to approve the decision to allow troops from other countries to participate in four multinational military trainings in Ukraine. The committee supported this proposal on the basis of the following. First. The introduction of this project meets the requirements of the Constitution, the legislative framework, is in line with valid legislation. We also considered that out of the 14 multinational teachings planned for this year, 10 take place outside Ukraine and four in our country. We were particularly interested in two questions. First. Ukraine will not suffer any additional costs. On this question the answer is negative, Ukraine will not bear any additional costs. The other one. We were concerned about the events that had occurred in the past when problems related to the disease occurred at the Yavorov region, so the issue was studied after a previous study, and the Ministry assured us that there should be no trouble there. With this in mind, the Committee proposed that the decision be approved, as required by article 85, paragraph 22, of the Constitution, on the admission to the territory of Ukraine of the armed forces of other States for training. And in this connection, I wanted to say about the second bill that Vladimir Mikhailovich spoke of, this is Bill 7389. I would like the honourable colleagues to know that our aviation, which participates in all of these trainings according to the program, has become a very difficult situation. In order not to say much, I will call these two digits: 5 months last year, the pilot of the designated crew was 36 hours 16 minutes, and this year, 8 hours 8 minutes. So, well, normal raids on our terms are 90 hours. At the cost that we're going to have 25 hours, if we take the decision that we're going to increase by 100 million dollars of revenue on the basis of military assets and channel these 100 million dollars to the purchase of fuel, we're going to increase to 56, to 55 hours. We ask you to support this decision. Supports the budget committee and supports the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u85	Thank you, Gregory Korniyovich. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the Head of the Committee? Is it? Please sign up for three minutes, because we're still, we're only talking about the first question, we've moved on to the second. Yes, Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Igor Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u87	Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u88	Our Ukraine faction, Igor Ostrash. Dear Mr. Head, I fully support the ideas that are expressed in your speech and I am glad that there is an understanding of this problem. Tell me, please, when we talk today about the implementation of Ukraine-NATO's joint action plan, what is really going to look like from this point of view all of these shares? And does the Committee really see, and how the Committee now assesses the implementation of the action plan of Ukraine-NATO for 2005. Have you seen any serious problems in this regard? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u89	Dear colleague, this is a matter for the Committee on European Euro-Atlantic Integration. We haven't analyzed the plan, we have the information in detail, you probably have it too. And we have not considered this issue with the implementation of the NATO action plan. We were interested in non-cooperation within NATO, international cooperation in the military sphere in general to increase the resilience and readiness of our troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u90	George Boiko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Please give my word to my colleague at the Novak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u92	Vladimir Novak, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u93	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear George Korniyovich, of course, I understand very well that this question, perhaps more to the Secretary of Defense, should have been put up, but I couldn't put it up. Please tell me, have you ever analyzed, anyone, or are there any damage caused by all the maneuvers that we have in Ukraine? Because even now, about 4,000 military personnel will enter here with all the technology. That's one question. And the second. Who are costing materially for these military trainings? I understand very well that our army needs training, and this is a school, but who is funding this training, which side? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u94	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, for every study, there is a very detailed cost, taking into account all the costs of preparation, of conducting, of recuperating areas, if necessary. These costs are financed by participants in multinational military training.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u95	Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u96	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party. Dear Georgi Korniyovich, the adoption of the draft law that the minister has informed us will meet the commitments made by Ukraine in the Partnership Program of the Peace Council and in support of the NATO operation. Do all of us support NATO operations, I mean the type of bombing of Belgrade in the past few years, and can Ukraine send 1,500 of its troops to Italy as Italy sends 1,500 to us by 40 days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Markovich, Ukraine participates in and directs its Armed Forces units in those countries and to participate in the operations agreed upon by the Supreme Council. We've been looking around. You know that we were not unanimous in solving these actions. You know, the Supreme Council made a decision after the aggression against Yugoslavia, made a decision that defined this operation as aggression and defined the bloc itself. So the Supreme Council had a clear, definitive position. I think she'll always do that. As to whether Ukraine was able to correct one and a half thousand. First of all, it's not about a thousand and a half. It's different, there's going to be ten multinational teachings outside of Ukraine. There our participation will be small, but bear in mind that this will usually cost Ukraine a certain amount as a participant in these teachings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u98	Thank you, Georgi Korniyovich, time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes for discussion. Is there no objection? What? A lot? 15 minutes, it's a deal. Alexander Masenko, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u99	Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, voters. First of all, I think we need to pay attention to what we're going to have from that Ukraine, the people, if we're going to adopt this law. And we will allow the armies of foreign nations to enter our territory. First of all, in my opinion, four things like this: first of all, political. When we adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty, there are still many deputies who said that we are a non-block state. Why are we now breaking this promise and joining some of the blocs and more than that we're launching NATO troops? The other aspect is purely military. The minister is speaking and saying that it will be beneficial for us, for the army, that foreign troops in our territory will be able to teach. What is the value of the Ukrainian army? But we don't have an army anymore! There is no one left to protect Ukrainian land and Ukrainian people. We will soon clothe our soldiers by unwrapping the coils and getting beaten-up Americans or some other. Maybe that's rude, but we've lived through it. We don't have technology in the army anymore. The army will be moving to Greenjoules soon. This laugh will be all over Europe. And we want the other troops to learn here. The economic aspect of this problem. They said there'd be an economic benefit. I'm going to read that the training is going to be based on the Treasury of the Ministry of Defense and it doesn't need any other expenses. What's not to spend? Then why did we put these costs in the budget for the Ministry of Defense? You could have used it for other purposes. And let's increase the financial revenue for the national economy by providing the goods, by doing the work there. Well, it's so funny, you can't even talk about it. What's that for? First of all, let's figure out how much this is going to cost Ukraine from the Treasury of the Ministry of Defense, the presence of these armies? How much do we get for delivering services and delivering goods? Why is there nothing to be said about this? And the fourth aspect is purely ecological. We speak of 400 children still suffering from learning at the Javorov region. There's also a lot of people sitting here looking at me who voted for foreign troops to teach there. Now the children are sick, so why don’t you ring the bell, and why don’t you answer that question? The Pavlovgrad Chemzad, America’s assurance was that they would report both money and every effort to neutralize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, you are unheard of. Microphone's off. Please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine." Prepare Lukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u101	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I listened carefully to Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. What a performance. It's as if it's the previous one from another faction. I saw the pain, the genuine pain of Georgi Korniyovich in the state of the Armed Forces. And the state of the Armed Forces, the respected government officials, the revered Ukrainian people, the terrible state of the Armed Forces. And what's said about the plane that doesn't have fuel to fly is not said yet, because there's no spare parts to the planes, because there's no aircraft, so I haven't bought since they got independence. No tanks, no planes, nothing, and we're yelling today, so let's not be teaching at all. Open the law and see. What is proposed? Learning in the framework of an individual partnership programme, first item. Then the two-way cooperation between the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence and the United States, then the cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Italian Republic. At least we can do some training. And what, they're so big? Look at the strength of up to 800 military personnel there. During the Soviet Union’s 8,000 years, 80,000 were taught on our earth. Nothing bad happened. Now we say. It's mine, I understand. And now the shells are breaking down, too. So, honourable national MPs, if we're not seriously going to raise questions today about the defense of the state, the defense of the country, we're already there, it's going to get worse. We've already come to the point that there is a serious issue at the Ministry of Defense regarding the elimination of the Odessa Institute of Land Forces, which is built on the basis of three huge international schools. But even this is a criminal matter, and there is talk. Why? There's no funding all the time. Let's get our faces back to the army. Now they're thinking about how to survive in these conditions. And now what's suggested is that at least eight hours a flyer flies! - It's not a flyer, it's no one, do you understand?Oh, my God! And that's four times worse than last year. We need to ratify. Now at least a little bit, let's solve a little question. Let's move on. I'm talking to Timoshenko and President Yushchenk: let's go back to the face of the army, let's provide them with everything we need. We need to ratify, and we need to look separately at the state of the Armed Forces and how to get them out of crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u102	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of Block Timoshenko Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u103	Dear Sir, your head! Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Respectful colleagues, when they speak of these very teachings, come to the Ukrainian territory to teach very little of the military. As part of the training of the Peace Shield, 500 military personnel. As part of Wide Lan training, there are a thousand 500 military personnel. In training. - 600 military personnel. So this is about the minimum number of military personnel. Of course, with the financing that Ukraine has with the Armed Forces, the Ukrainian army cannot be viable. And when you and I are concerned about, indeed, the state of the Armed Forces, we need to raise funding first. At the start of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, 3 percent of the gross domestic product would be available, and we've never allocated that much to you. Our Armed Forces live on such conditions as to keep the soul in the body and to dress in some way. In this situation, the army usually only lives and does not exist. We need to increase funding, that's what the National Security and Defence Committee is constantly speaking to you, honourable deputies. But we will not get proper funding, and Ukraine’s participation in international military training is the minimum that is necessary to ensure that our Armed Forces are more or less aware of the state of the armed forces in other states, their weapons, their knowledge of them, and their knowledge of the armed forces of other States is minimal, i.e. the number of armed forces from foreign nations participating in our teachings can do no harm to our ecology or to any other great harm. And finally. We read this bill with you. The bill states that Ukraine does not actually spend money on it because they finance those states that send military forces to Ukraine. We can't isolate ourselves from the world, because we're open, and the armed forces have to get both funding, and this is minimum learning, and sharing experience. I ask you, Your Honor, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u104	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u105	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština As this bill is presidential, the President of Ukraine first needs to look around, where, if desired, you can see that the Ukrainians today are concerned about not conducting military training in other states in our territory, but about economic problems. That is, the catastrophic decline in the standard of living of the people, the problem concerns 70 percent of Ukrainian citizens, the untimely payment of wages -- 70 percent of the average citizens talk about it, the economy as a whole -- 57 percent, the problems of employment, unemployment -- 56 percent. As a result, 78 percent of Ukrainians find the Partnership for Peace to be unnecessary. Joint military training is by no means enhancing the security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, on the contrary, they undermine the military’s security and authority among the people of Ukraine. I would like to see with whom and with what the Ukrainian Armed Forces will participate in these teachings. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. Who will be responsible for the cost of participating in these activities? As it is known, each partner can choose what he needs from a wide range of options. So perhaps learning the language is best for us, since today’s generals, the commanders have only to learn English, and everything else does not apply to them, and you want to learn peacemaking. We've got a pretty good thing going. How many of our men have we lost in peacekeeping operations? Can we not carry out such training on our own in our own country? Can't we determine the total number of military equipment or types of weapons of the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Thus, there is no basis for such training in the territory. The priority in choosing cooperative action is usually given when it costs Ukraine nothing when its people so desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u106	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Solomonine gives the right to speak to Peter Simonck, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! First. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this ratification bill. Secondly, we would like to draw the attention of the entire public of Ukraine to the fact that the consideration of this issue shows and shows that Ukraine has lost one of the most important institutions of statehood, its own army, and has not been able to provide sufficient defence capacity for the country. The second, criminal path that has been or has been in progress over these years, has in fact been to destroy the army and requires appropriate investigations. An investigation into where $30 billion has disappeared from use and the sale of arms abroad. What happened? And who allowed instead of giving Russia $4 billion in airplanes, the Beckfire strategic bombers who knew the whole world, to cut them up at the direction of the Defence Minister in Chernigov region. What happened to the missile complex, and in particular what did my friend give as an example? Environmental disaster in Pavlovgrad Dnepropetrovsk oblast. What has happened is that the criminal actions of generals and other staff have resulted in explosions in Artemovsk, Nova Bogdanovka, today in the Hemelnicke district. It seems to me that respectable colleagues, the difference between these exercises and what happened in the years of Soviet power, is that Ukraine is participating in exercises with the armies conducting aggressive policies, that is, the armies of the NATO bloc. Thus, whether or not the President and the Minister of Defence today pose new threats to the people of Ukraine -- terrorism and chemical threats in connection with the use of weapons of mass destruction, as did the Americans in Yugoslavia, when more than 50,000 shells were carried out with enriched uranium. We must understand with you today that, in fact, the Ukrainian army is preparing for hostilities in the NATO bloc on the territory of other States. That is why we are the Communist faction, today, dear colleagues, we invite you: let us today be the electors of the people of Ukraine, not those who today use Ukraine's territory to conduct experiments, including the military-political sphere. Again and again, I want to warn those who will vote in favour. The Yavoriv region, I draw the attention of the representatives of our Ukraine, the motorists, to your conscience, 400 sick children who today cannot determine what happened to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The minister's asking for a closing statement. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a few words of explanation to the questions that have been asked. First. It's a joint military training, it's not the training of troops of other states in the territory of Ukraine, that is, our troops are participating there. The other one. The funding is being made, I say, on terms that are advantageous to Ukraine, economically advantageous to Ukraine. That's the question. As for the warning that there is no fuel in the army and everything else is true. And that's why I'm asking you to support the bill, which will be submitted on behalf of the committee next here, so that we can have fuel. Once again, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u110	Dear colleagues. Nigger, please. And we'll vote. Well, it's the Black guy with the motive, someone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I think we should make decisions based on some objective criteria. In particular, in this case, I think the key to voting is the answer to the following question: will it not contribute to our country's increased defence of multinational learning? If it helps, then we have to vote in favour. If not, the jury. I think it'll help. That's why we have to vote in favour. Why would it help? Because this will ensure the acquisition of new skills by the Armed Forces and the acquisition of world experience, the experience of the armies of other countries. And that's how we communicate with different armies. And that's why I think we can vote in favour. Now I'd like to deny the communists. They say they're peacekeeping operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? What word? Did he use a minute? What do you want? This is the committee speaking, the committee's position was, let's vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. A draft Ukrainian law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2005 to participate in multinational military training is on the vote. Registration number 7555. Please vote. [[11:43:42]] For 246 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 81, Communist - 0, Ukraine - 0, National Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU - 0, Ukraine - 16, Democratic Ukraine - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 10, Postfraction - 16. That's how the law was passed. Dear colleagues, we talked about this, and we agreed on a committee proposal in a package to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 National Budget. [[on the financing of the Ministry of Defence]] The committee head reported. In order for our pilots to fly for at least 50 hours a year, not eight, as little as last year's, we need to make budget changes, with an additional 100 million dollars on the revenue that Ukraine receives from the sale of military equipment, technology and weapons. This is Bill 7389. But we, please, have your attention, dear colleagues. But we need to include it in the agenda to support the Rules. That's why I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on the financing of the Ministry of Defence]] Registration number 7389. Please vote. [[11:45:30.]] For 341 Dear colleagues, taking into account your support, given that this bill is supported by a budget committee that supports the National Security and Defence Committee, which supports the Cabinet of Ministers, one minute, so I ask: let's have an operational discussion now and make the right decision. Since the chairman of the committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, has already reported, I am asking Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun of the Committee on Budget Affairs. Is there a Suprun? None. The committee's conclusion is. Perhaps we should give five reasons for the minutes and vote. No objections? No, well, there's a motive question. Give me five minutes. Sign up for your motives, please. Write your motives, please. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who were registered for reasons. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. For those who are interested in why I am first, the Lord knows better who needs the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the budget committee to now predict a slightly different amount -- not a hundred, but at least 150 million -- because the funds that are there are the possibilities of getting out of the shadows today in the state, that's what we're hearing all the time, the funds that are going to come out of the economic use of that resource that's been ripped apart by the past government, are now going to go and serve to protect the country. So I would ask you on the way, the representatives of the budget committee, to focus and still invent those funds so that this beggarly state of the army will be stopped, and so that we can respond adequately to all the external threats, because somehow this quieted down, everyone forgot about Tuzla, about all the other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u114	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u115	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. I would like the Minister of Defence to answer the next question. Here, the draft law states that the costs will be spent on sold objects. It would be useful to know on what facilities and on what conditions these facilities would be sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u116	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u117	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I think 100 million and 150 million won't hurt our army, even large amounts. There are questions and technical re-arms that we need new technology, there are questions and training. We know that pilots today have not actually flown in time, and they require, so to speak, some training, and social protection. I can give you a concrete example. We have a closed military unit under Mariupol in the village of Ilichevsk. People live without the light, without the heat, they can't find it completely, let's say so, let's get to it, who's going to answer anyway? Served 25, 30 years. For whom did they serve, whose family, and how did they protect that they were not needed today? Therefore, I think that if this money is allocated, we need to take into the harshest control system their use so that it does not work out that they will go as water into the sand and we will not, so to speak, solve any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u118	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u119	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party. The People's Party faction supports the bill and will vote for it, but there's only one warning, and I'm asking the Minister to make the implementation of these military towns that will be liberated transparently, openly, in public conditions. It's not the first idea: to realize military property, and the one that's broken down, and the one that was in a state of convenience. But it was all done so secretively, so politely, that it only created conditions for corruption and some skepticism caused society. We'll support it, but it's a warning that it's all in conditions equal to all those who claim and can pay for all that property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u120	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u121	Thank you. I don't think there's two thoughts here. Of course, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will support the bill and will vote in favour, since the army really needs to be able to inventory and implement its own property. I also agree that implementation should be transparent, and I am convinced that it will be transparent. Only one thing is to be very careful about the property that will come into effect. Because, for example, in my district of Cherljan Airport -- one of the best airfields in Ukraine and in the former Soviet Union -- was first looted, destroyed, and then proposed for implementation. Of course, these are the faults of the previous regime, but still, I would like to see what whole assets can be sold in order to preserve their function, just for peaceful purposes. And the main thing is, I think we need to help the army, so that eventually there's a lysing purchase of military technology, because it's embarrassing when we have half the world, Ukrainians on our tanks, and we can't provide our own Ukrainian army with the best tanks in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u122	Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u123	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I would like to draw attention to the fact that, due to the lack of sufficient funding for the Ministry of Defence, we are living on the dusty side today. This is Zaporozhye, this is also the Holy Hmelni district, the preservation of the vast majority of obsolete munitions and some other things the Ministry of Defense has to deal with. That's why I'm interested in the question, and speaking of voting motives, I support this bill. But I would like to draw attention to the need for a more specific program, an accurate program, a well-weighted ammunition disposal program and the proper implementation of this program in all the Ministry of Defence structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Please, the minister of defense had questions about the objects for sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u125	First. I fully support what the people's deputies have said about the transparency of this process, and much has already been done to make it possible to hear all the suggestions and so that the economic effect is maximum. I want to report that more than 100 million additional funds have been involved in this state of affairs now, and that's 6 times more than in the previous two years. The adoption of this bill will enable us to use these funds not only to build housing but also to improve military resilience. I'd like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, here are some clarifications, please note, on the budget committee of Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, the first deputy head of the committee to tell you about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u127	Sophia Suprun. Dear colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, it has been noted that it is necessary to clarify in the text of the law in Appendix 3, the parameter is that 100 million dollars are allocated for this particular purpose - for fuel, so under such conditions we agree to adopt not only in the first reading but also in general. The committee therefore supports the adoption of the bill in the Supreme Council Hall as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u128	Yes, please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. There is a proposal for a profile committee on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the 2005 State Budget, registration number 7389. Please vote. [[11:54:32]] For 324 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed that at 11 p.m., 55 minutes, we would listen to the information of the Counting Commission. The commission’s chairman, Valérie Mishur, is invited to inform the people’s deputies. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u129	Dear National Deputies! At the registration desks, you will receive a bulletin from such a form as 4 names of candidates for the post of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and another square, where "I do not support any of the candidates". You only have to do one check here. If these are two or more, this is considered invalid. And once again, the square of the right. The vote will begin at 12 o'clock, and it will take 45 minutes to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 45 minutes. At 12 o'clock, the vote will begin. I call on the people's deputies to take an active part in the vote. Break until 12 o'clock 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u131	We're continuing our work. Dear colleagues, the question of the election of judges is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Onopenko Committee, Vasil Vasil Vassilovich. Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u132	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, honourable judges, you will have before you the draft of decree 7593 on the election of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine for an indefinite period of time: Biluhu Sergija Volodymyrovich, Hamanka Aleksandra Ivanovich, Zaik Mikolaiovich, Zaik Mikolaiovich, Singer Vasil Ivanovich, Čalogo Sergija Yakovič, Fadeiev Nina Mikolayevna, Šipulina Tetjan Mihailnovna. Yesterday we carefully examined every candidate of every judge before the Supreme Administrative Court. Those pretenses that were removed. The Supreme Court will support, the High Qualifications Commission supports, so there is a proposal to vote in favour of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u133	Right, right. Is there no warning? Shurma, please turn on the microphone, the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u134	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I would now like to address Vasil Timothyovich on behalf of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vassil Timothyovich, you have always stood on the side of the law, we ask you, to the extent possible and to the extent possible, to ensure the implementation of the Constitution. We ask questions: Until now, in the Supreme Council, more than 30 associates will fit positions in the executive branch of power and do not make up their parliamentary powers. We always go to meet and support your suggestions. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is united and today we support a positive vote. However, we want to understand us too. If the question of co-existence is not settled in the Court of Appeal as soon as possible, we will not vote once in favour of the judges for their promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u135	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan. Then Hennaday the Widow, and we will be determined by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u136	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Regions. We support the proposals of the faction of the Social Democratic Party united. That's the motive. If the Supreme Court does not decide on the question of the co-conspirators, and we know what such submission is, how can we support judges who do not comply with the basic law. So until the question of the co-conspirators is resolved, the faction of the Districts of Judges will not vote, nor will they vote on any other issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u137	Let's make an exception today, and then we'll figure it out. Please, Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u138	Dear Vassil Vasilovich. I take this opportunity that a large new group will be approved today. Judges, I'd like to raise two questions. As head of the Human Rights Committee, I receive hundreds of complaints about court decisions on specific issues, in specific cases, people are shouting. That's what I'm talking about. The other one. According to the initiative of Sergey Petrovich Head of the Foundation, 50 volumes of the European Court of Human Rights have recently been presented on specific cases before the Court. The Head Foundation publishes collections in English. Every judge needs to know, at least, what is in Strasbourg court, and that citizens have a huge number of complaints.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u140	Gennady Josephovich, I support your initiative. And the committee asked the State Court of Justice to purchase these exact materials from the European Court of Human Rights. And no time when we consider the judges' candidatures on the committee, we always ask them about the relevant decisions of the European Court of Justice, including in Ukraine. We demand knowledge of the decisions of the European Court of Justice. It's about complaints. In fact, there is a great deal of complaint because one party is not satisfied with the court’s decision. But there are many problems, and as part of the judicial reform that the Committee and the Supreme Council are doing, I think we will improve the situation in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7593]] Please vote. [[12:54:15]] For 336 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Yes, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the Bill of Order 7594 on the election of Bim Magdalene Eugene as Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. We're taking it separately because with respect to Bim Magdalene, the Eugeneva committee didn't get the necessary number of votes. But I'll tell you, there's no such thing as a lawsuit against a judge. She worked for a long time in the civil court of appeal, there were warnings that there would be a problem with the apartment in Kiev, and that she might be there, well, she would soon reach retirement age, though. She was born in 1948. She could still work. There were no more claims about her. She's a great expert. So the way the hall is going to be defined right over here, that's how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u143	Ivancho Ivan, please. Ivancho Ivan's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Bim Magdalene Eugeniène, I am not only me, but also members of the Supreme Council of Carpathians know more than one year as a lawyer, a professional, a man who, in 12 years in the Civil Chamber, has only a question related to the review of her case. All of it. Human beings are extremely modest, correct. And I ask the Chamber to support this candidacy for the election of the judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u145	Maria Marcus, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! I know Magdalene Eugenyevna for a very long time as a former lawyer, and I know her as a highly professional professional, unattractive person, who in 12 years, practically had no canceled decisions, and I ask you all to support this candidacy and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u147	No other warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u148	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u149	I can't see. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, registration number 7594. Please vote. [[12:57:08]] For 355 Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u150	In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a draft decision on the appointment of judges is issued on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of the Provincial Region of Morozovsk Vladimir Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk District of Stratila Vladimir Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Falchuk Valerius Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Doros Alla Ivanovna, Petrenko Vasil Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Zaik Viktor Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Serduk Alexandr Grigorovitch; the Court of Appeal of the City of Sevastopol Kloczka Valery Petrovich, Ponomarenko Alla Petrovna; Dnipropetrov’s Court of Appeal Sizko Irina Anatoliyevna The local Borislav City Court of Lviv, Pitchcock Roman Josephovich. The local Gaussian District Court of Kiev Matt Alina Volodymyrna. The local Nahimov district court of Sevastopol Luňov Svetlana Ivanovna And the army's local court of the Donetsk garrison of Jelfimov Aleksandra Vasilovich. No claims were made to the judges. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, no warnings, no comments, no suggestions? I can't see. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7592, "The Election of Judges" is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[12:59:02]] For 329 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the judges who have just been elected to office on an untimely basis and to wish them the faithful service of the law, to ensure the rule of law and to cooperate fruitfully with the Ukrainian National Deputies in upholding the laws. And let us ask the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to listen to the submission of the Supreme Court to ensure that constitutional regulations are clearly observed regarding the incompatibility of the appointment with the parliamentary mandate, I mean, the appointment of positions in the executive structures of power. We thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the section "Other Reading" is under review. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code is submitted for your consideration. [[on the alienation of the child’s property]] The reporter is Musiyaka Viktor Lavrentiovich. There's Victor Lavrentiovich. Who will report from the committee? Then, dear fellows, I will take over this mission. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! This 177th article has already been discussed, and several times we have returned to this question at a committee meeting. A very interesting offer, and it was from a colleague of ours, and it was usually from Mrs. Samuel. We have now formulated it in such a way that it does not conflict with any of the provisions of the Civil Code or of the Family Code. The point is that in this bill, when it comes to children’s belongings, children’s possessions are often used by their parents not for the sake of children and they are put to the test. This is where the mechanism now works, and it's agreed upon by both the Science and Experimental Authority, and the Ministry of Justice, and the committee is proposing the bill as drafted. He is small, there are a few positions in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code on the alienation of a child’s property is put to the vote. Registration number 5434. Please vote. [[13:02:13]] For 263 The law is passed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings is being announced for consideration. [[on the compensation mechanism]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Bondarczuk. Please turn on Gabrieluka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose some changes from the procedure for dealing with this issue. What I mean. On February 1st of this year, three drafts, all three of them, were decided on the first reading. Why did Parliament adopt all 3 bills in the first reading? Because the most fully protected rights of millions of our citizens, and this was emphasized by the chairman then Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, because these three bills are non-alternative, and it was the commission of the committee to process all three bills. Today, the committee makes its first decision, and the second and third invite us to cancel our February 1st decision. Then, logically, it's the committee's right to make that decision, but logically, we have to first make a decision to cancel the previous decision that we made in this room, i.e. the second and third, the second and the third, and then go back to the first or send back the second reading. [[4475]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u155	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear National Deputies! Please note that these bills are coming up next. They are, we will consider them, they are not alternatives. Next choose the folder, there are the other laws, they are. This is a committee proposal, and we're going to vote on another proposal. Dear colleagues! We're going straight to the book. Dear colleagues! All proposals made to the draft of this law are taken into account. May I have your attention, please? We therefore have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens' Savings. [[on the compensation mechanism]] Please vote. [[13:04:49]] For 284 The law is passed. Dear colleagues! The head of the Counting Commission, Valérie Mishur, asks for the results. No warning? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! Let me introduce you to the results of the vote on the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine included the nominations of the Hubski Bogdan Volodymyrovich, Hare Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Kostenka Yuri Ivanovich, Musiaki Viktor Lavrentiovich. Based on the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission has established the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have been recognized as 448; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received secret ballots is 255. In accordance with the first part of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and chapters 3.7, 4. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules The Counting Commission decided to consider the elections to be such that they did not take place. The signatures here are all there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u157	Honorable national MPs, distinguished leaders of MP groups and factions. I think we're going to need to hold consultations and consider this issue by finding a compromise on the appointment of committee heads, the first deputies and the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we'll have such a meeting before the next plenary week on Monday. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings is being announced for consideration. [[Registration numbers 4485-2, 4475-3]] Please take the seat of the committee. Please, Gavriluk Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just wanted to explain that the Committee is proposing a second and third bills, just as a decree, that it has decided to cancel our decision of the Supreme Council, which we adopted on February 1st. That is, he does not propose to support these bills on second reading, but proposes that the decision of the Supreme Council of 1 February 2005 should be repealed. And they had to be first, if the Supreme Council were to adopt, cancel, then the committee had the right to consider one bill, i.e. 4475-1. If not, the committee was to be instructed to work out all three bills because they complement one another. And it would be better, a super-legislative so that our citizens can get a return mechanism, a real money-return mechanism. Regrettably, the committee failed to carry out the commission of the Supreme Council. And today, we're looking at this particular issue, we don't want to make savings to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u159	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u160	Gurenko, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my dear colleagues, I think there is no victory in interpreting the Rules of Common Reason. Once the Supreme Council has shown its will and adopted the first bill, and the second, the third, contradicts it, we can calmly reject them or decide to cancel the first reading and not to mislead each other anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u161	Thank you. Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u162	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, as one of the sponsors of these bills, I can say the same thing: are we really one of the sickest, but we should finally sit down with the Government, and I stress once again, with the Government to answer one question: are we going to solve the situation of contributions or are we not going to solve it? Because to date, this is the 14th or 15th law that we are enacting and that is beyond further development. We're just, like, building up our population, telling them that we're trying to solve these issues. In the ten years that have passed, we could have at least partially solved this problem. That's why we can pass one law, we can pass two and three, but provided we don't hit a stone wall. Let's finally adopt any of these laws, now we're going to set up a commission to sit down with the Cabinet Minister and clearly develop a model, to answer the question clearly to all of our people: are we going to return our contributions or are we not going to? Moreover, the State has assumed such a guarantee that it will return its contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, in this case we have complied with the Rules. If there was a decision on the non-admissibility of the bill, we would vote on the proposal for non-admissibility, and so we vote in the order of consideration and registration, and the comings of these bills. So from the first law we passed, we made a positive decision on the draft law. For the two laws there is a proposal by the committee to reject them, that is, to cancel the results of adopting them as a basis for the first reading. That's why I'm voting on the committee's proposal -- this is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of February 1, 2005, No. 2395-4 on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Citizens' Savings, on improving the mechanism for the return of savings. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. It's about deviations, dear colleagues. [[13:10:55]] Z-85 Yes. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the second draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 1 February 2005 No2396-4 on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian law on State guarantees for the restoration of Ukrainian citizens' savings on the compensation mechanism. [[13:11:32]] For-23 The decision is not taken. I ask the Committee to prepare these bills for second reading, because the Supreme Council did not support the Committee's proposal. And I would also like to remind you: your honorary colleagues, when we're looking at alternative bills, we have to make one decision at a time so that we don't have any contradictions before the second reading. Yes. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Leaves, Additional Leaves for Parents, is being announced for consideration. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u164	Alexander Stoyan Faction "The Regions of Ukraine" is a representative of the National Forum of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, this Law is in time today, because within a month the children who have graduated from the 11th class will enter higher educational institutions. Our fellow national deputies: Volkov and Billowl make suggestions: To supplement article 10 with a new part of the meaning that if children under the age of 18 move to a different place to join a school, parents have the right to leave within 12 days. So they have a vacation, but it's not a calendar, let's say at this time. But at the expense of their vacation, they can take 12 days to accompany the child. In addition, the drafters suggest that if parents so wish, they may take another 12 days without paying a vacation. In this way, parents can accompany their children to a different location. The project is supported by a committee. It's a second reading. We've taken all the suggestions into account. There's one observation from the expert department that he wrote that instead of the words "entering educational institutions," he wrote "allowed entry." We think it's wrong. Why? Because in order to enter, they must be allowed to leave, to file documents. And the child should go with the parents at the beginning, and then maybe she should go. Thus, all the comments are considered. Not one observation by a colleague of Belarus is taken into account. A colleague of Belarus suggests that in order to take a vacation, if a worker is a co-conspirator, you have to agree with that business, the organization where he works for a co-existence. This is not necessary. You have to take a vacation at your primary job. So I ask that, honourable colleagues, support this bill and allow parents to accompany their children who enter educational institutions in other cities of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u165	Thank you. Here is the first and fourth revision of the national deputy of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. He doesn't insist. Matvienkov Sergei for voting reasons, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u166	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I don't mind, I don't think anyone would mind helping some parent to morally support these children. But I have a question for all of us. Has anyone recently tried to schedule summer vacations? Who's not on vacation. Lonely? Yes, of course, we have to support it. After school? Yes, of course, you have to give. Participants in the war in Afghanistan, participants in hostilities? Yes, of course, you have to give. The Chernobyls? Yes, of course, you have to give. Veterans of labor? We have to give. So I ask the question: When does a normal, regular trainee go on vacation in summer to heal himself and his family? I'll answer you, never. The way it used to be. Just so you know, the ones that got into the sober, December and January. It's a good thing. But let's agree, let's say we tie it all together. It's September again. It's the best of times. When do we tie up, and when these people fall down, the people who stand by the machines who are at the top when they are on leave? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u167	Mate Matvienkov, first of all, not September of the month, but the beginning of July when children go to other schools. It's different. We're talking about 12 calendar days, not a full vacation. And I think that some Ukrainian citizens where children go to other places will get a little bit more, but a kid who's 16 or 17 years old to let go, let's say, from Kiev to Donetsk without a father, without a mother, it's very, you know, so problematic. No, so let's go meet our kids who want to study in other cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u168	I'm voting on the adoption in the second and in general, as a law, of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Vacation Act, registration number 4482. [[for extra parental leave]] Please vote. [[13:16:26]] For 260 The law is passed. A draft law on prevention of homelessness, registration number 5415, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Bondarczuk Alexander Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u169	Dear Chairman, People's Deputies! Your attention is requested, on second reading, a table of amendments to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Homelessness. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, at its meeting, considered the issue and recommended the adoption of the bill as a whole on second reading. The amendments to the bill were considered with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Sport. I'll remind you. This bill is a framework. We have complemented it with a substantial, almost new bloc, which concerns homeless citizens, without a specific place of residence. It regulates the identification, registration, first aid and further reintegration of these people into normal life, i.e. their normal housing and work. The Final Position recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers develop even more detailed laws to detail some of the provisions set out, once again, in this framework law. An important bill, because, according to some data, we have only street children in different estimates of between 100 and 500,000 children, mainly the absence of living parents, i.e. the social stigma caused by the problems that have arisen in our society along with capitalism: unemployment, the reduction of social programmes, the low standard of living of many of our young families, especially the propaganda of unhealthy, abnormal lifestyles, which today is promoted by many media outlets. The Social Policy Committee believes that by adopting this law, we will be able to allocate funds to deal with this problem in some way next year. While you understand that this problem needs to be addressed by addressing the root causes of such phenomena, it is necessary to move on to normal organization of production and distribution, to socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u170	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u171	I mean, once again, if we fight capitalism, market relations, where the main goal is profit through the exploitation of millions of workers, we will never solve this problem, it will only be an indication. We must largely eliminate the foundations of these social diseases. And to do that, we need to go back to socialist society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u172	Yeah, let's do some repairs. Ladies and gentlemen, here are the amendments of national deputy Volkova's unaccounted for, national deputy Noshchenka, national deputy who reports, Bondarchuk and others. Who among the national deputies whose amendments are not taken into account wants to stand up for them? Mikola Petrovich? I can't see you. Oleg Zarubinski, please. Mikola Petrovich, don't you insist? Oh, no? Yeah, no one's insisting? Then the committee's proposal is to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. I am voting for adoption in the second reading and generally as a law on prevention of homelessness. Registration number 5415. Please vote. [[13:21:36]] For 261 Decision taken. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 55, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, People's Party - 29, Block Timoshenko - 25, Socialist Party - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, Social Democrats - 17, "One Ukraine" - 13, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 5, non-fractional - 12. [[United]] There are draft laws to amend the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, registration number 2564. [[second reading]] First Deputy Head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood, Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposed changes to the basics of health legislation. The changes relate to the improvement of the terminology of Ukraine’s health legislation, including their compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court on May 29, 2002. The project proposes the legislative definition of the terms "medical assistance", "medical services", "medical goods", "medical treatment", "patient", "diseased", etc. The committee believes that the proposed terms will contribute to the development of legislation, as well as to improve legal relations in health care in Ukraine. In addition, the bill amends articles 7 and 18 to facilitate the legislative settlement of issues related to public health guarantees, allowing legislatively defined mechanisms to ensure the constitutional right of citizens to receive free medical care, a guaranteed level in public and municipal health institutions and creating favourable conditions for the further development of an effective legal basis for health care for the population. I propose a bill, draft number 3564.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments insists on defending them? You don't? Then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u175	Adam Ivanovich, I propose that my amendment number 8 be removed, as it is still quoted in the text and repeated in the material.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to speak on the grounds of the vote. The drafters who are now proposing that we define the terms here, by these terms, narrow down the free medical care to the workers. They want us to adopt a law in such an interpretation, and we have drastically reduced the amount of free medical care. Therefore, taking into account my observation, please, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the second reading of the law amending the basics of Ukrainian health legislation, registration number 2564. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:24]] For-49 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 29, People's Party - 5, Block Timoshenko - 9, Socialist, Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democrats - Zero, "The only Ukraine", "Democratic Ukraine", industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Democratic Initiatives" - Zero, "Afterfractional" - 6. There is a draft Law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on Health Protection, second reading, registration number 2565. Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u177	The draft bill proposes amendments to article 24 of the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, which foresees an increase in the role of public associations in the field of health management. In particular, it is envisaged that professional social organizations of health workers and other associations of citizens will have the right to exercise civil control over the implementation of the Health Protection Act and to develop and approve appropriate specially authorized central authorities of the executive branch with regard to public standards, standards and requirements in the area of health care and epidemiological welfare. Given that the bill aims to improve the role of public professional associations in the field of health care and improvement of public administrative decisions by authorized authorities, as well as to enhance democratic principles for the development of Ukrainian society, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u178	Thank you. Which of the authors of the amendments, but, more specifically, they're all accounted for, I mean, they're not. Please, the Minister of Health, for reasons of vote on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Health believes that the bill under consideration today needs to be finalized in a fundamental way, taking into account the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the terminology already used in health glossarys in countries with advanced health systems. And so far, and the Supreme Council is drafting a bill on associations in general, public organizations that will have not just any separate functions that will have the functions of protecting the rights of the patient and protecting the rights of medical representatives. In this regard, the Ministry of Health believes that the bill should be rejected. Amendments to the bill should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u180	Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u181	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We are discussing a very important issue today, because the health system itself is not a legal framework. But I do have a question for Mr. Polishchuk, Minister of Health. Mikola Efremovich, why don't you make up the mandate of the national deputy? Why you are violating the articles of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Act on State Service of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on Corruption. Now you're going to the rostrum, asking for support for changes to legislation, being the very violator of the Constitution and of those laws. Please tell me when you put together your mandate as a member of the Supreme Council, as required by the Constitution, as required by the President of Ukraine, when you went to the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u182	Please, Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I agree with the idea that this law will give us virtually nothing. Why won't he? Because it's extremely general. For example, the advisory expert bodies are associations of experts. How many of these should there be experts? What regions should they represent in order for this association to be considered, its opinion to be heard? Is it simple enough for me to express my opinion to the Minister of Health right now? Dear Mikola Efremovich, I would ask you, by virtue of what I have now from the organizations to intervene in the situation, to control your interlocutors who have a conflict of interest, i.e. ownership of certain enterprises that are involved in the performance of their duties, and I support Mikola Efremovich in his actions aimed at positive change, but I would like to take a more revolutionary view of such moments from which I have said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u184	Yes. There was an exchange of thoughts on the basis of the vote. I'm proposing a second-reading, second-reading, second-reading, second-reading, second-reading, second-reading bill for amending the basics of Ukrainian health legislation. This is the registration number of bill 2565. [[13:31:13]] For a hundred and The bill was rejected. In factions, please "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists -56, "Regions of Ukraine" -39, People's Party - 11, Block Timoshenko - 4, Socialist Party - 26, Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democrats - 0, "One Ukraine" - 2, "Democratic Ukraine" - 1, "Industry, Entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 3, non-fractional - 3. [[United]] The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law, the basis for Ukrainian legislation on health care, on the recovery of benefits for medical and pharmaceutical workers, is being considered. Second reading, registration number 6340. The same Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u185	The proposed amendment to article 77 of Ukraine’s health legislation deals with the restoration of benefits for the free use of lighting and heating housing for workers and pensioners living in villages and villages. These benefits were, and in Soviet times, workers have unfortunately not been able to resolve this issue. That is why the Committee supports this Law and submits it to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, all the proposals that came from the people's deputies included in this bill, that's why we have them. For reasons of vote? Please, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I just want to say to you that this is the profession that our rural area is the least provided for. The teachers, somehow we fixed the situation, we fixed the situation with the medics. Rural, district, and other rural facilities are not counted by much. So it's very important that we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u188	Please, Karmazin, Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u189	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I know the mood in the hall. Many who feel that there is no budget, do not have to vote. I would ask you right now, focus, think about another question, when we run this law, when it can actually work. But this law is absolutely necessary. It is a free use of an apartment with lighting and heating for those who live and work in villages and villages, as well as for retired workers who have previously worked as health workers. No one can be sent to the village right now, no one wants to go, but they need to get paid. That's one of those forms, that's a piece of paper, but we can't go into the villages without medical care. It's actually just helping these people solve the social problems in the country. And I thank the committee for this bill, which is running and standing up. Let us find the votes and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I see we want to go after the first reading. Come on. It's the motive that everybody wants. I see more hands than we have time for this. Sulkowski and we will. At least three hands. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u191	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, riding in the villages, in fact, today virtually no attention is paid to the medics of the village, the village. [[Especially those deputies who have districts]] And it hurts when even a bicycle state can't buy this person, who is 25 to 30 steps from house to house now knows the path with his eyes closed to every cabin. That's why the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" calls on all national MPs to support this project. That's what it says. That we will really help the paramedics not to be afraid, but to go to the village and be with the villagers, with the villagers. And for that, we will be grateful to all the deputies of the village and the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u192	George Manchulenko, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u193	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! The question is quite important, and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports this initiative and will vote in favour, because as an MP from a one-man election district, I know what are the problems for the medics who have to work in the rural area. Last year, the Ukrainian National Party conducted a special survey of our citizens in many areas of Ukraine, led by an outstanding scientist, the Shalimov Academy of Sciences. And we know the health situation in rural areas. The Ukrainian People's Party, its faction supports the bill. I think that in this situation, we need to support those who work in rural areas, create the right conditions for them to work there and provide proper medical care for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u194	Please, Health Minister Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You know, the new policy of the government and the President is to provide adequate medical care to the villagers. The Ministry of Health today, unfortunately, does not have a complete list of people living and working in rural areas. That's what we're doing right now. In this regard. But in view of the fact that people working and working in rural areas, including pensioners, and retired workers, the Ministry of Health believes that the bill should be supported from 1 January 2006. But to introduce, in view of what the bill says, not only for housing but also for housing, the Ministry of Health considers that a 50 - percent reduction in payment should be introduced. Why? To the extent that both electricity and gas are very common. The Ministry is asking for the support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will vote. But I would like us to support this proposal. The end of the line is written that this law takes effect from the moment it is published. In order not to get in trouble with you, if you'll excuse the non-parliamentary expression, the veto, let's write down that this law has been in effect since January 1, 2006. Is there no objection? Then, with such an amendment, I put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and generally as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law, registration number 6340, taking into account that it has entered into force since 1 January 2006. [[on the recovery of benefits for medical and pharmaceutical workers]] Vote. [[13:39:52]] For 386 The law is passed. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[Helping Single Mothers]] This is the second reading of the bill, registration number 5092. Michaelo Vasilovich Loboda reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u197	Dear comrades, the committee supports the changes to article 18-3 in the setting-up of children who are assigned to help single parents and adoptive parents under the age of 18. It used to be. Instead of 16 years old. I mean, these kids are still said to go to school and have the right to these benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u198	Yes, do you understand? Please sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Yes, three minutes, please, Tkachenko, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u199	I refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u200	Yes, please, Eshchenka, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u201	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! We are referred to as MPs by many single mothers. That's why we need to uphold this law because it will allow for the improvement of single mothers. That is why we support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u202	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u203	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! I think no one has any doubt that this law must be upheld, even though it is. Especially on the grounds that this category has been left to us somehow, well, undeservingly. What is 10 per cent of the subsistence minimum for a child 16-17 years old? So if you try to ask, how do you put it on, how do you put it on for that money, feed it and learn it? It is clear, of course, that these are small pieces or coins that do not in any way compensate for the cost of single mothers today. To imagine that in these circumstances, the most difficult conditions this category raises a child, raises him, and for such tiny ones, let's say, money. It is therefore necessary to take the first step, to make such a decision, but I believe that in the next year's budget it is necessary, indeed, to provide money that is consistent with the subsistence minimum, at least in order to ensure that the child survives in these conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u204	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u205	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party, party of Vladimir Litvin. Dear colleagues, today we have a serious problem with childbearing. All of them know. A woman who has given birth and raises a child needs not only state aid but all kinds of support. And if you analyze the situation, the first ones to shrink at work are women who don't have a job, the biggest unemployed among women. And that's exactly where we need to respond very carefully. And by addressing the committee. Yesterday, everyone paid attention to women who were asking for help on children born in the first quarter of this year. When we voted on this law, it was promised. And this, please prepare -- we'll support it. The committee here will be supported, I think, by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u206	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u207	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. As a budgeter, I would like to stress that this law should be adopted, but it is the same condition as the previous one that it was introduced only on January 1, 2006, because it affects the income part of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u208	Eugene Ivanovich, it is written here, in this law, that he has been since January 1, 2006. There is such a thing in the position of the End. Mikola's nightstand, and we'll vote. Mikola Petrovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u209	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. I'd like to say according to procedure. Adam Ivanovich, this bill is somehow not published on the Internet. There is no compare table at all. And it's hard to get a sense of what we're saying is the final result of what we're voting for. Which is why I'd like to keep this from happening again. And I also encourage support for the bill because voters, when you work in the district, especially single moms, always ask questions about the deeper social protection of their material state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u210	Dear Mikolo Petrovich. I don't know why there's no Internet, we'll figure it out, but there's a comparative table. Here, it's made up of one leaf. It's probably just you. You've lost them somewhere. Comparative table is 11, if I'm not mistaken, it's still May. Here's a simple sentence, the digits "up to 16, and the students up to 18" are replaced by "up to 18 years." It doesn't matter if you're a student or not. And it came into effect on January 1, 2006. That's the whole change. That's why we have it. Yes, please, Poljczuk Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Law on Helping Children has been widely amended. Why? Because now the norm has changed and children are considered to be under 18 years of age. This is in harmony with the Family Code. That is why we ask you to support this bill to enter into force on 1 January 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u212	Yes, I am voting on the second reading as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children. [[Helping Single Mothers]] Registration number 50 92, please vote. [[13:46:56]] For 325 The law is passed. Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. There is a question of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Extra-School Education. [[on initial specialized educational institutions]] [[second reading]] Bill 5365 registration number. Reported to the head of the subcommittee The Committee on Science and Education, Bauer Mikhailo Jozefovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u213	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the second reading proposes the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Out-of-school Education. Registration number 5365. The law was passed by the Ukrainian national deputy Tanjuk Les Stepanovich. On October 19, 2004, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The committee received 50 amendments, proposals and comments from national deputies, interested ministries and authorities, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, the Academy of Arts of Ukraine, the public organization of the directors of Ukraine's initial specialized educational institutions. There are 21 amendments to the table, 20 of which are fully included, and one is partially counted. The bill is designed by the General Legal Authority without notice and is recommended for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education at its meeting on 9 March 2005 adopted a decision on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Extra-School Education in the second reading and in general. We thank all those who participated in the law and ask for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There's no correction here that doesn't matter. But I'm so familiar with the bill, I can see that it's going to go to budget. So again, if we vote and adopt, given that this law takes effect not from the day it was published, but this law takes effect from January 1, 2006, because there are certain budget costs. Please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Let's take five minutes. Odajnik, please, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u215	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine", Winnitzkin. Dear friends! Indeed, this bill affects the budget. To accept it today and to put it into effect from the day of publication, practically, I have not therefore any proposal that normally is necessary to vote for it, but with the amendment that the chairman made in today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u216	Thank you, Eshchenko Volodymyr, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u217	This is the Communist faction. This law is very much needed for the state, so our faction will support it, vote. I propose to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u218	Thank you. Lapin, Ukraine. Infantry wants a microphone, please, Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u219	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Our faction has been discussing this issue since the morning, and we will vote, but before that, we fully agree that we need to do the calculations and put it into effect on January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u220	Eugene Kirilchuk. Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u221	All we write down from January 1st of the following year is for everyone to remember that if the President signs these laws and they are signed and entered or ready by August 15. Then the budget has to be taken into account. , the budgetary calculations of the Cabinet must all of these, enter all of this. For this reason, I also believe that it should be accepted, entered and signed immediately in order to be introduced from January 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u222	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u223	Please pass the word to my colleague, Mikola Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u224	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u225	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The Socialists will support the bill, it refers to the extension of part of the Ukrainian law on education for music schools, art schools and so on. That is why we need support, and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u226	Please, George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u227	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Party Dear reporter, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party generally supports the bill and will vote for it. The only thing you would like is to clarify your position as to what there are some inconsistencies with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. And if this position can be done to harmonize with the Budget Code, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party will vote in general. Thank you for your answer. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ We have to say that this bill is now in line with the Budget Code, because we have made changes to the Budget Code and the funding of extra-school institutions is provided from the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u228	Igor Sharov, Democratic Ukraine Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich. Mikhailo Bauer is a member of our faction, he has detailed the substance of the bill. And on behalf of the faction, please support the appropriate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u230	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. None. Singer, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u231	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. Singer, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I'd like to ask the Hall to support this law, given at least the situation that we've reached Grindhol at Eurobian, and let's say the development of extra-school education will allow us to raise the level of spirituality and the level of upbringing of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u232	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u233	Please support this bill, considering that there were really no gaps in the budget code when the state's delegated authority on extra-school education was not included in the local budgets, and they were forced to direct other assimilations. Enter into operation on 1 January.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm here for one of Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk's remarks by August 15th. Because according to article 94 of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine is obliged to sign it within 15 days of the law’s submission to the President. So we have, as it were, all of this within the Constitution. Thus, communication took place. I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian law on extra-school education. Registration number 5365. Taking into account the position it entered into force on January 1, 2006. Please vote. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ The committee's asking for your support. [[13:56:10]] For 340.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-02-m0.u235	The law is passed. We have four minutes left. I don't think we're going to continue this session for 15 minutes. Thus, a break of up to 16 hours is announced. Dear colleagues, I very much urge you to show up in the session room at 16 hours as well, because we now have an official visit to India by the President of India. He will meet with the Head of the Supreme Council and at 16 o’clock he wants to address the Ukrainian national deputies with a speech. So please, let's listen.
