ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:39]] They registered 391 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of our National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague, Sinchenka Sergey Grigorovovich, let us welcome him and wish him success. Dear colleagues, please listen to the results of the High Council's plenary session of October 4, 2005. Ten questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result, seven laws have been passed. Two bills were adopted as a basis. 15 bills and 7 draft decrees have been rejected. As a result of the President's proposals, three laws have been passed in a new edition, two laws have been repealed. Dear colleagues! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'm asking the factions to file a statement, and in the meantime, I'm going to announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: SYMONENKA, THE SUGAR, SHUFRICZ to the President of Ukraine for more than two-fold delay by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in sending a letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:03:39]] For-157. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:03:59]] For 177 The decision is not taken. Ms. Olexyuka and Mr. Dobkin to the President of Ukraine on the use of the position of the Office of the Attorney-General as part of the failure to perform the tasks of the President of Ukraine, resulting in significant losses to the economy of the State. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:34]] For 101 Request not supported. Constantine SITANIKA to the President of Ukraine for serious flaws and crises in the activities of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote in favour of the request, please. [[10:05:01]] For-161 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:22]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine for the purpose of depriving them of the legitimate rights of tenants and residents of some villages in the Kyiv region of Boripil, to land areas that have been legally granted to them by local authorities. [[Nasalik, Warfare, Warfare]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:01]] For 260 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:22]] For 294 Decision taken. OLEXIJUKA to the President of Ukraine for the criminal seizure of strategic state enterprises for the production of documents of strict reporting by senior government officials of the National People's Republic of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:03]] For-129 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine for the exacerbation of interfaith conflicts in Ukraine and the actions of law enforcement authorities and local self-government bodies concerning the religious communities of the village of Rokhmanov in the Shum region and the village of Stank Butchik in the Ternopil region. [[Samofalov, dara, dara]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:42]] For 207 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:02]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Stepan GAVRISHA to the President of Ukraine on the threat of “black” archaeology to Ukraine's national historical and cultural heritage. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:29]] For 148 Request not supported. Mikhail DOBKINA to the President of Ukraine on the use by the US resident of Kiyanichenko and other heads of the State Enterprise, the “Ukrainian polygraph” service to implement shadow schemes for State funds, the use of these funds not for the purpose of purpose, but for the satisfaction of their political ambitions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:08]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:31]] For 181 The decision is not taken. Mr. Stanislav PCHIDENK to the Prime Minister for the extra allocation of the car to the veteran of the Great Homeland War, the disabled and the group. Valery of the Prime Minister for discrimination against citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster when they received compensation payments. The Gennady of the Prime Minister on the need for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Decision on the Approval of the Financing of Local Budget Expenditures for the Implementation of State Social Protection Programmes for State Budget Subsidies No.256 of 4 February 2002. MIKOLI COMARA to the Prime Minister for changes to the list of government-funded objects. Mr. KRUKA's Jury to the Prime Minister on the issue of the reform of the customs system. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Coal Industry, the Head of the Luhansk district government administration on illegal property dispossession, violation of the interests of the State, the employees of the wealth-rich factory Jankowska and its partners, in particular the closed-circuit company “D o n o n o r s o u h i l i” Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction work for the establishment of the Holy Trinity Council in the city of Yagotini in the Kyiv region. Mr. Alexander LECHINSKH to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for repairing the roads of the city of Sloviansk. Eugena KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister on the water supply and water supply situation in the town of Hust Zakarpatsk. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy, Minister of Coal Industry, on fuel supply for the consumption needs of liberated workers, veterans and disabled mines that are eliminated or closed. Oleg BILORUS to the Prime Minister for the financing of the renovation of schools in the Ivankow district of Kyiv. Andrija SKILLY to the Prime Minister on the illegal activities of the Republic of Moldova’s border guards in GES-2 of Dniprovsk GAES, which led to the capture of part of Ukraine. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds to the village of Cliché in the district of Sumsk. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Coal Industry, the Head of the Luhansk District Public Administration for the violation of the legislation by the Lugansk Association, a subsidiary of the Lugansk-Wugil Holding Company, regarding the debt owed to a closed stock company “D n o n o n r o t in g i l i t”, as well as a violation of the principles of the judiciary by the Lugansk Region Economic Court. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for the 2005 review of the budget of the city of Borispol Kyiv region and for the 2006 development of its indicators, taking into account the reduction in the removal of funds from the local to the state budget. Viacheslava Anisimov – to the Prime Minister – is the minister for the unsatisfying position of the Dniprožinska Air Basin. SECHANOVA to the Prime Minister for the violation of constitutional human rights and the delay in the repayment of arrears on foreign exchange in foreign currency to seamen of the state-owned enterprise “Atlantic” of Sevastopol. Anatolia NALIVAJKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the purchase of compressors for the Charles Marx mine of the city of Jenakiyev. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister for the housing of citizens who have been displaced from the territory that has been exposed to radioactive pollution. Victor TURMANOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the imbalance in the budget of the cities of Torez and Snowy Donetsk Region. Igor Nasalika to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the removal of the legal rights of owners, tenants and residents of some villages in the Kyiv region of Boripil, to land areas that have been legally granted to them by local authorities. The National Deputy Prime Minister's group to accelerate the receipt of a subsidy from the State Budget for gas pipelines and gasification of populated areas. [[BYSTRY, GORLOV, BRONNIKOV, AND OTHERS]] Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of budgetary resources for the construction of the surgical corps and for the resuscitation of the Institute of Oncology of the Academy of Medical Sciences. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the regulation of the construction of existing micro-regions in Ukraine, in particular their historical part. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the creation of an economics university at the Eastern European University and the management of the city of Cherkasa “Army of the Cerkasian Cossack” and the lease of a barracks, a construction salary and a written-off of military equipment to be disbanded. [[TRAINING, RAYKOV, DIVORCE]] Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, for the financing of work on the design, reconstruction and maintenance of the Bortnicka Aeration Station of Kiev, at the expense of the 2006 state budget. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister of Gasification of the villages of Lisna and Baratin, the city of Yunkomnarivo, the Donetsk Region. Eugena LAPINA to the Prime Minister on the violation of legislation on the deduction of part of income due to the financial and economic activity of the Open Shareholder Society Sumhimprom in 2005. Refata CHUBAROVA and Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister on the ownership of premises used by the Post Offices of the State Enterprise “Scartage”. The National Deputies of GRANOVSKI, Blochina, Podobedova, Šufricha, Borzova, Oyshu, Oyshu, KZURMI, Dobkina, Dobkina, KYSELOVA, KYSELOVA, MITURA, KALETNIKA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Youth and Sports, Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Kiev, City Head, Odessa, Mikolai, Hmalniski, Lugansk, Cherkaskie, Kirovogradski, Czerniecki, Ivano-Frankivsky, Dnipropetrovski, Hersonski, Hersonski, Ternopilski, Harkovsky, Poltavski, Zaglovski, Žilski, Žilski, Žitomerskikski, Vinniecki, Vlinskikovsky, Volinskikski, Volinskikovsky, Volinskikskikskikovsky, Doskskikovsky, Rudskikovsky, Rudska, Rudzidskikov, Rudzidskikov State Department of the State Department of the State Department of the State of State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State. [[acquisition]] Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister on the requirement of veterans of war and military service to stop the process of extermination of the military hospital in Lutsk. Mr Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Prime Minister on the legality and grounds of the cancellation of the payment of local telephone services to subscribers. A group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for the creation of an interdepartmental commission involving members of the Attorney-General's Office to conduct a comprehensive audit of the activities of the closed stock company Complex Agrolars, which, while speculating on the problem of meat products in Ukraine, has been cynically violating legislation, causing irreparable harm to the health and environmental security of the State. [[BONDARENKO, JAVOYSKI, KOSIOV]] Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the U.S.A. on the circumstances of the government budget losses and the domestic farmer's schemes for illegal imports into Ukraine of 150,000 tons of sugar-scart. Alexander MOROZA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for 2006 for the implementation of the Programme for Radiation and Social Protection of the People of the City of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Anatolia KOSLOVSKI to the Prime Minister for amending Appendix 6 to article 47 of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2006. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the restoration of the work of the Vendish sugar plant of the Mohilev-Podil Region of Winnitsky and for the involvement of those responsible for bringing him to bankruptcy. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister for the inventory of grain stocks in Ukraine. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Prime Minister for the non - Russianization of Ukrainian schoolchildren, which occurs when schools are computerized as a result of the use of non - Ukrainian software products. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, Head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on the baseless reduction of customs duties on individual types of imported products from abroad and problems with the development of the agri-industrial complex in southern Ukraine. Jury CARMAZINA and Mikiko SAKIRKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, who is responsible for the Ministry of Health’s responsibility for the distribution of budgetary resources, the abuse of office and corruption by individual officials of the Lviv district health authority, the former management of the Lviv district clinic, the chief physician of the Lviv district oncospanser. Anatolysa Rachánské to the Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification of rural areas in 2005 on the basis of the total cost of capital construction rather than the anticipated funding from a dedicated fund that is not being implemented. Mr. KRUKA's Jury to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the 2005 State Budget. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the holding fund, regarding the non-performance of the closed stockholding company Volin Silk Combine, the terms of the contract for the sale of the public shareholding package of the Open Shareholder Society, the "Herson Cotton Combine" and the violation of legislation in the conduct of the privatisation competition. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the treatment of cancer-sick children in the Ohmatdit department. Alexander TKALENKA and Refat Chubarova to the Prime Minister for the construction of the Infectious Department of the Skadavian District Hospital in the Hersonian Region. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the renovation of the house on the street of Lenin, the town of Tacheva Zakarpat. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the bureaucratic gravity of the provision of retirement benefits to the Maesters of the “Switanko” Agriculture Society of the Region of Poltava. Mr Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Stepanovka Drabovsk in the Cherka oblast. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the RNBO, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the abuse of power, the official position, by individual officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, with the provision of repayment of the debt for loans involved in the purchase of agricultural equipment for foreign production. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding unwarranted high prices for real estate inventory and the transformation of property rights by citizens. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Minister of Industrial Policy, Minister of Defence, on the issue of the manufacture of an investigative model of a gun. Victor MIRONENCY to Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka on the need to establish a Ukrainian-Russian agreement on the pension insurance of Ukrainian citizens working in Russia and Russian citizens working in Ukraine. Anatolia FRENCHUKA to Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko for granting permission for a disabled pensioner to receive a car from abroad as humanitarian aid. Michael KOSIVA to Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka, Head of the Lviv Regional Administration, on the implementation of the actions related to the commemoration of the 150th anniversary of John Frank's birth. Group of National Deputies to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenka for the revitalization of the work of the Government Commission for the Study of UN and UPA activities. [[DAVID, FOOD, CANDJOR, AND OTHERS]] Lilia GRIGOROVIC to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko on the violation of the rights of a multi-child mother to pay for the care of children. TO THE Attorney - General’s Office, Boris is responsible for violating the rights and interests of the people of Kiev at the construction site. Mr. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the district of Sumska on the investigation of a criminal case involving the tragic loss of life in the traffic accident of the citizen of Ovčinnikov. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General regarding violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, political persecution, forced and unfounded dismissal from the work of the majority of schools in the Kostopil region, the district branch of education, and the head of the Yaroslav Bilik regime. Ivana HERASIMOV to the Attorney-General on violations of the Law on Economic Associations, which were allowed in the issuance of shares of the Kyiv Open Shareholder Association “Elekon”. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General’s Office for the criminalization of those responsible for the beating up of the Mukatov City Council of Gordubei. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General for delay in bringing the head of the Department of Internal Affairs to justice in the Kirovgrad region, his first deputy and police officers, who were responsible for the beating and illegal detention of the deputy of the city of Kirovograd. Vitaly CECHMISTRENCY to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, on the violation of legislation and economic and technical security standards in the construction of the oil base in the village of Klevni district. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General for the protection of land rights in the village of Stepove, in the district of Odessa. Larissa VACHENCO to the Attorney General for violations of the rights of the territorial community by the City of Žmerin. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the inaction of law enforcement authorities on repeated allegations of illegal acts and exceeding the official powers of the Director of the Berdjan City Administration for Gas Supply and Gasification, Zaporin Region. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General on the gravity and improper investigation of the criminal case in connection with the accident and death of the citizen of Owcinnikov in Suma. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General for the review of the restoration of the activities of the Russian Club in Kiev and its sources of funding. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney-General on the involvement of the deputy head of the Kirovograd authorities, the former DPA chief in the Cherkas region and his deputies in the illegal compensation of the added value tax from the State budget in a particularly large amount. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General on the investigation of a criminal case involving serious bodily harm to the citizen of Harchuk, as well as the pressure, blackmail, threat and abuse of office by the judge of the Raven City Court, Alexander Timoschuk, and the prosecutor of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Plain Region of Andrija Timothychuk. Eugene HOURNIKA to the Attorney General on the delay in investigating the legality of the use of funds and the legality of the construction and sale of the holiday complex in the village of Thinklovka Dolinski district by the company “Ukrnafta”. Mr. Mikoli KULCHINSKI to the Attorney-General for the protection of the constitutional rights of the Director of the Ukrainian-German Joint Undertaking for the Transport and Expeditional Services of Alexander Logwin. Oleg KARATUMANOVA to the Attorney General on the use by the resident of the U.S. Kiyanichenko and other heads of the State Enterprise, the “Ukrainian polygraph” service for the purpose of implementing shadow schemes for the acquisition of state funds, the use of these funds, not for the purpose of purpose, but for the satisfaction of their political ambitions. VADIM MISSURA to the Attorney General for the preservation of socially important objects in the area of Righteousness from arbitrary obstruction. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General on the provision of information on the conduct of criminal investigations for many numerous frauds during the 2004 presidential elections and on the election of the Mayor of Mukachev, which becomes particularly relevant after the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between Government and Opposition. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General on the debt of open stock company Križopilski Sirzavod to the residents of the village of Klembovka of the Yampil district of Winnicki district for the milk delivered. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the provisions of the Act on the Treatment of Citizens by the employees of the Office of the District Attorney of the Lugansk Region. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the inaction of prosecutors in investigating a child’s abduction and serious bodily harm. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney-General on the criminal responsibility of the leaders of the Selidian Directorate for the disposal of the mines of the Ukrainian State Company for the restructuring of coal industries “In the years to come, p.r. p. p. p. p. p. p. and c. and me” for failing to comply with the regulations of the State Labour Protection Supervisory Authorities. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the violation of legislation by the Chief Executive of Culture, Art and Cultural Heritage of the Kyiv City State Administration and the Director of the Hydropark Municipal Enterprise in the organization of illegal commercial activities in the area of the cultural park and the hydropark rest. [[WOMEN, WORKER, TRUST]] Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General about the actions of individual officials of the Radivilov District Attorney’s Office of the Plains Region and the authorities of the judicial investigation and the district prosecutor, who have committed and continue to inflict moral damage on the citizen. Oleg NEMIROVSKI to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Head of State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship on the grounds of abuse of office, obstacles to entrepreneurial activities and the purposeless use of funds by the Dmitry Head of the Kyiv-Holy of the Kyiv region. The Anatholic of RACHANS to the Attorney General regarding the violation of legislation by officials of the executive branch when considering parliamentary appeals regarding the destruction of children’s health camps at sanatoriums in the city of Eupatoria in 2005. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General, acting as Minister of Health, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the violation of the constitutional right of residents of the Dniprov district of Kiev and boarding school officials to a safe and healthy environment, the termination of the construction of two residential buildings on Radvodny Street, and the annulment of the decision of the Kyiv City Council No.340-1/1550 of June 24, 2004. [[CARMASINE, AKIRKO, A DELIVERY]] Leonidas ISAYEVA and Vladimir MAKEYENKA to the Attorney General on the bias and objectivity of the investigation of events that took place near the premises of the territorial election committee No. 208 on November 26, 2004 in Chernigov. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Attorney General for the prevention of cases of “sale” of management positions in local political parties and seats in election lists of candidates to be appointed by the parties and their local organizations. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the obstacles to the activities of the People’s Deputy from the Chief Executive of Kachurova. Jury KRIVORCHKA to the Attorney General on the need to control the investigation of the murder in the city of Vladivostok of the Russian Federation of the Head of the Ukrainian Choir, Anatoly Kryl. Aleksandra MASSENKA to the Attorney General for the enforcement of the rule of law in the alienation of the immovable property of the Horol Inter-economic Movement Mechanized Methodological Colony of the Poltavian Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Secretary of the RNBO regarding the situation surrounding the Hmělní nuclear power plant. [[BRONNIKOV, OLUIKO, BURJAK]] Jury CARMAZINA and Mikoli Sokirka to the Secretary-General of the RNBO, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the abuse of power, the excess of power, official negligence, corruption, the theft on a particularly large scale by individual heads of the National University of Internal Affairs. VICTOR OF THE DESCRIPTION TO THE HEALTH MINISTRY regarding the allocation of funds for the Romanian District Sanitary Epidemiology Station of the Žitomir Region for the reconstruction of boiler and the acquisition of equipment and reagents. Efima FIXA to the Minister of Education and Science on the appointment of the Prekopsi Scientific and Advisory Centre of the Herson National Technical University of Budget Teaching Places. The Ministry of Finance’s branch of the ŽIŽKA to provide social benefits to the Special Unit of the Ministry of Defense’s Directorate of Intelligence. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for Retiring Citizens, who in Soviet times worked as heads of rural councils. Andrija SKILLY to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the opening of a consular institution in the Belts of the Republic of Moldova. Larissa VACHENKO to the Ministry of Defence for the transfer of a former clinic and teaching corps on the street of the Mayakov City of Lviv to the National Academy of Veterinary Medicine. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Defense on the renovation of the roof of a military town in the village of Lake Zitomir district. TO THE Minister of Education and Science, Tamara is involved in the financing of repairs and furniture for the Costantinian Industrial Engineering Department of the Donetsk Region. To the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Fuel and Energy, Head of the State Committee for Nuclear Regulation, Attorney-General for the illegal removal of the benefits of workers of the energy-repairing enterprise of the “Restraint AES”. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Ministry of Finance to accelerate the allocation of projected funds under a subsidy from the State budget of Ivano-Frankov, State Administration, for the gasification of the population. Istwana HYDOSH to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Minister for Environmental Protection, the Attorney General on the determination of the degree of chemical damage imported into the territory of the Beregian private enterprise “Ozone” and the publication of the results of the criminal investigation of the facts. Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the provision of legality in the distribution of apartments for employees of the Coropa District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Cherkas region. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in connection with the design, reconstruction, and technical refurbishment of the Kyiv Air Station at the expense of the state budget in connection with the emergency situation. Ms Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Minister of Economics on the delay in granting consent to the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the Sevastopol State Enterprise “Atlantic” and the Sevastopol National Technical University. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on the abuse of office and moral conduct of the commander of the Ukrainian civilian policy personnel of the UN in Kosovo, Colonel Lewchenk of the Police. Victor Antemuk to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the contempt of the workers of the “Vinitzoblanergo Share Company” for the provision of electricity to some villages in the Winnitsky region. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Education and Science on the situation surrounding the Kharkiv Institute of Commerce and Economics. Groups of National Deputies (CHMARA, MOYSIC, GRIGOROVIC) to the Minister of Internal Affairs on responding to signs of organized criminal activity under the cover of the public organization “Committee to Promote the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption” in the area of the cultural park and the “Hydropark” holiday in Kiev. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Justice regarding the need to change the name of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church to the name “Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine”, which corresponds to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church in the canonic and organizational matters of the Russian Orthodox Church. Vladimir PETREN to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the payment of monetary compensation for the rehabilitation of the disabled family. Katerina FOMENCO to the Ministry of Finance for financing the construction of gas pipelines according to Cabinet Order No.687 of 3 August 2005. Vassila NADRAGI to the Ministry of Justice on the situation surrounding the TV “Centre of Reconstruction and Design” in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Michael Kosiva to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the need for the discovery of the Ukrainian Consulate in Szczecin. [[Poland]] Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the rough involvement of internal affairs bodies in the work of the “Trudova Ukraine” political party. Vladimir Paka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Revitalization of Criminal Investigation. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Ministry of Finance, the first Deputy Minister of Health for the provision of medical equipment and equipment to the Chernigian district hospital. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the establishment of intercity communication with Transnistria. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the delay in internal affairs in the completion of the investigation into the Freeman’s criminal case. MICILI KULČINSKI to the Minister of Defence for the violation of the constitutional rights of residents of the military town of Poltava. Mr. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Control of Criminal Conduct. Ms. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice regarding the improper performance of professional duties by officials of the State Executive Service of Lubna Poltavian Region. Anatholic to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the problems of individual criminal cases and the social protection of law enforcement personnel. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the High Town Head, for the housing of the education staff of the city of Vishgrad. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ and Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Kiev City Public Administration on violations of environmental and sanitary legislation by the Open Shareholder Society Avers. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the State for the Restoration of Tram Traffic in the city of Constantine. Sergey SLABENKA to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the gasification of the Luboml district of Volin region. To the Head of the State Tax Administration, Vladimir DEMOJIN is responsible for complying with the requirements of law enforcement by the authorities in the Zakarpat region. TAMAR OF THE procurator under the responsibility of the Head of the Zacarpathian district administration to provide a new facility for the kindergarten of the village of Freedom of the Beregian district of Zacarpathia. A group of national deputies to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission to prevent the destruction of signed letters and electoral ballots in the latest election of the Kiev City Head in connection with their possible falsification. [[BONDARENKO, MARCHENKO, HONCHARENKO and others]] Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Head of the State Property Fund for the observance of the laws and interests of the people during the privatisation of the Kiev Motorcycle Plant. MICHELLA TO THE Head of the National Bank on the protection of the legitimate rights of investors and economic operators in connection with the bankruptcy of the ALBank Share Bank. Vassili SALIGINA to the Head of the Board on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, illegal acts, threats and extortion of bribes by employees of the Eastern Regional Department of the Department of State Service for Combating the Economic Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv region of Ostroverch and Zajiv. MICHELLA TO THE HEAD OF THE MAGAZINE OF THE MAJITLOCOMONGOSP ON THE LEGISLITY OF THE PROHIBITION OF RISK AND COMMUNICATION SERVICES IN THE CITY OF THE KYEWISH KYEWISH. VADIM MISSURA to the Kiev City Head for information on the construction site in the Shevchenk district. Alexander CARENKA to the Head of the Sumerian District State Administration on the state of implementation of the State Programme for Youth Housing 2002-2012 in the Sumskie Region and the extent to which young families are being credited for housing from the local budget in 2005. [[acquisition]] Anatolya CLIMINA to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the qualification of judicial decisions regarding the case of the insurance company “DASK”. A group of national deputies to the Kyiv City Head to meet the requirements of legislation on increasing the investment and tourism attractiveness of the capital of Ukraine. [[MARRIAGE, MANCHULENKO, ZULINSKI AND OTHERS]] Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for violations of sanitary standards and construction requirements in the Pecher district. JOURNEY RUCA to the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the Reform of the Health System Mr. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the Head of the U.S.A. on the violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the group II disabled by the employees of the Department of Security in the Cherkas region. Jury KROWROČKA to the Head of the Security Service for activities in the Autonomous Republic of the People's Front Crimea “Sevastopol-Crime-Russia”, which is causing a violation of the territorial integrity of the State. Mr Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine on the activities of an organized criminal group of officials of the Prosecutor's Office, the Police and the Economic Court of Zaporozhye in the area of gross violation by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the requirements of article 86 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of implementation of Ukraine's laws on the payment of benefits to social workers living in rural areas. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Minister of Interior, Minister of the Coal Industry, Head of the Holding Foundation, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the crisis situation in the team of workers of the University of Alexandria. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the crisis situation that took place in the TES-1-2 group of the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd, which threatens to break the heating season due to the failure to pay wages for eight months. Thus, honourable colleagues, 170 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Factions: Our Ukraine – 14, the Company – 35, Ukraine – 18, Ukraine’s Social Democratic Party – 23, Ukraine’s People’s Movement – 13, the People’s Party – 4, the Socialist Party – 10, Block Timoshenko – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, Ukraine’s National Party – 12, “Go, Ukraine!” [[united]] - 6, Reforms and Orders - 7, NDP and Hard Ukraine - 5, non-fractional - 7. Let's move on to speeches from MPs and factions. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the faction of socialists wanted to make a statement in the village today, but a statement by some politicians forced us to make and tell the truth on some issues. I took the word out of absolute conviction that homage and theft must necessarily be punished, for if I keep quiet, it means allowing bushmishmism to return to Ukraine. He sat down and flourished with a new flower in our session hall, primarily in the Presidency. In this newspaper, Volodymyr Litvina agreed to claim that the perpetrators of the murder of Georgia Gongadze were the organizers of the cassette scandal. Not a scandal, but the truth about the murder of George Gongadze. You know perfectly well, Mr. Litwin, that. You know very well, Mr. Litwin, that the Security Service has completed an expert study where there are clear words that you asked Kuchma to influence the Minister of Internal Affairs, and the Minister of Internal Affairs has influenced Georgia. How do you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, feel guilty about claiming that Alexander Moroz was a contractor when the Attorney General claims that it was the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who gave the command to deal with George?Oh, my God! So, what did Frost give the command to destroy George Gongadze?Oh, my God! It was Litwin and his lieutenants that blocked the Gongadze case for five years. I felt it on myself when my door was cut out. It was from the President’s Administration that they gave the command to persecute both relatives and relatives and friends. Now, after the Orange Revolution, Lithuania once again became a Democrat, he goes to the Council of Europe to represent our democratic Ukraine. With what words? There is one question to you in Europe as well as in Ukraine: where is Georgia's head when you write an appearance with respect? I am convinced that our Supreme Council should listen to the forces that will clearly say when the Gongadze case and when the materials will be in court and when the buyers will sit on the bench of the defendants. We'll have a resonant trial in a few months, where the Chief of the Supreme Council will put and take charge of the crimes committed. It was Kuchma who dragged him here with 226 votes to this rostrum with one goal: not to allow the case to be investigated. And in this situation, I am addressing all the national MPs. We cannot work at a time when the Head of the Supreme Council is the one blocking the investigation. The Attorney General will never give the right information, he will never sit on the bench of the defendants who ordered the murder, and you're distributing these pastels. Read for yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u3	Dear national deputies, according to the regulations, I have a right to reply for one minute. That's why. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? First. This hysteria that you've just heard confirms the correctness of the political orientations that we're talking about. I would like this distinguished master here to tell you why during the month on which the film was installed. Who was the organizer of Kuchma's office hearing, who was directly involved, and don't get hot, Your Honor, I'm prepared to meet you in court on the grounds that you accused me of stopping the investigation. You're the one stopping the investigation! You want to appoint conspirators, organizers, and then the hat burns on thieves. Please note that you are publishing in your newspaper. If you have a conscience, a morality that you talk about and that is only believed by the readers of your newspaper, then you will stop misleading people. I'll tell you one more thing: Don't be a bad boy while you're quiet. That's it! Please, Your Honor, we don't have a motive, because... No, we've got speeches, then, after that, I beg you! Well, here comes the show, dear fellows! Well, here comes a performance authorized by factions! Well, at the end of the day, yes. Please, Mikola Nightshenko. Prepare Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u4	Mikola Noshchenko, “Go, Ukraine!”, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymyr Lithuania People's Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, the Constitution of Ukraine determines that the land, its perniciousness belongs to the people, and every citizen, including each of us, has the right to use it. The parliamentary faction “Go ahead, Ukraine!” is concerned about the situation surrounding the possible rise in the price of natural gas to the population, which also relates to natural resources. This issue has been raised in the media for more than a month. Of course, there is no smoke without fire. The Russian side, in response to the reckless behavior of our government officials, is already on the verge of claiming an increase in gas prices. Difficult negotiations are under way. Now, let's talk about the main thing. Today, in Ukraine, 20.4 billion cubic metres of gas will be extracted this year, 24 and a half billion cubic metres of gas will be free of charge, free of charge, from Russian gas as a fee for services. That's 44 and a half billion. How long does it take for the Ukrainian people? 33 billion, including the population, utilities, budget institutions. It turns out that the population with interest is short of Ukrainian gas and processed gas. Now it's about prices. It can be said that Ukrainian gas costs thousands of cubic meters within 15 dollars, free Russian gas, but a vacation price of $36 to $45. So who's suing who? NAK Naftogaz Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, as they claim, or NAK takes the last penny from the poorest family for huge salaries and dividends to shareholders of the company. In 2005, 102 million gas is planned, and another two billion are being noted, which are being repurchased to commercial structures. Who are the lucky ones who have reached the good of the people? How do they pay taxes on the congregation and geological exploration work? At the same time, in some media outlets, particularly yesterday, our parliamentary newspaper published a report on double the price of natural gas for the population. Thank God that this is false, unverified information, and this has not happened. There is no NCRU order registered in Minsk. So the faction insists on asking the Cabinet of Ministers to verify the real economy of resource use by involving the deputy corps. We also prepared, with the participation of the deputies of Sharov, Noshchenka, Drachewski's draft decision on a moratorium on price increases, on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u5	Yes, John is invited to the presentation. And, Peter Cibenko of the Communist faction, to prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u6	Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. "Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear veterans! The transition to power of the new old political team led by President Yushchenk is characterized by the launching of a large-scale campaign to rehabilitate the Ukrainian rebel army and the members of the organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, the recognition of them as the warring party and the liberator of Ukraine, with their status and the amount of aid to the participants in hostilities in the Great Homeland War. All of this is accompanied by the brutal falsification of our new history, which is widely involved in domestic and foreign pseudos, in the culture of justice, in the political parties, and in the media. On the one hand, physical and moral insults continue, vandalism in relation to veterans, memory of a great victory, heroism of UPA soldiers, and celebration of Banderishness. In the western areas of Ukraine, local authorities are making illegal decisions regarding the rehabilitation of the UN and the UPA, contrary to all international law. Especially presumptuous and cynical it looks like the year of the 60s of Victory in the Great Homeland War. Bills on the rehabilitation of the U.N. UPA are increasing, and it is silent that during the period of the UN war and its military formation, U.N.A.A.A. has been associated with many of the thefts of German fascism that UPA soldiers are guilty of the destruction of more than 100,000 civilians in Ukraine, more than 150,000 citizens of Belarus and Poland. Today, UN UPA and their high patrons plan to carry out a brutal provocation on October 14, this year, a parade of UPA veteran soldiers on Kiev - Khrestetic Street. In this regard, we express our firm opposition to the UPA military parade, not allowing for the march of supporters of Hitler, who, in the distant 1941 ’ s, along with the fascist armies, their hosts, entered the Kiev in German worship. The foot of the Fascist Hollow does not set foot on the main street of Kiev's hero city. If today’s authorities allow such a Sabbath to take place, they will be responsible for possible civil strife. In our protest campaign, up to 50,000 veterans and other citizens in many regions of Ukraine will be taken. The vast majority of veterans of war and labor and military service speak against the UPA military parade, their recognition as a warring party. We're arguing about solving the issue of the role and place of the UN, the UPA in our history at the national, legislative level, any decision of the local authorities regarding their status and benefits, any marching parade of U.N. soldiers, the U.S.A. -- are anti-government, illegal and provocative. Slippery fascism won't go away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u7	John the Rabbit, from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u8	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The political crisis that struck the country because of the irresponsibility of the high officials who provoked the inside of the new power had caused great damage to the ideals of the Ukrainian revolution and the authority of Ukraine. The process of building a society of legal democracy and modernizing the nation. As soon as the crisis is over, the demand for broad citizenship and time is determined. In this situation, the Ukrainian People's Party requires the President of Ukraine and the Government to take vigorous, consistent and effective steps to remedy the situation. However, it seems that the nation’s leadership is not fully aware of the full depth of the crisis. Society has not received clear explanations as to the nature of the sovereign conflict and the resignation of the previous government. The formation of a new government is unwarrantedly prolonged. The appointment of government officials follows unclear and opaque procedures for citizens to ignore the principle of professionalism. The conceptual principles of the new government policy are unclear. All of this has led to the fact that the change of several government officials has not changed the face of the government or overcome the nation’s crisis of confidence in the new authority. The financial bloc of the old government, which has worsened the situation in agriculture and industry, the fuel and energy sector and the financial sector, has virtually not changed. Although liberalism has weakened its position in the new Cabinet of Ministers, the ideologies of national democracy have not intensified. To date, the issue of proper political support for the government has not been resolved, both by parliamentary factions and by Parliament in general. Because the Supreme Council does not create an ideologically oriented government majority and the coalition base of government is practically narrowed down to two parties -- the People's Union of Ukraine and the Socialist Party. The newly created government is essentially a two-party government. Under such conditions, the Ukrainian People's Party is paying particular attention to the special responsibility of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" and the Socialist Party for the results of government activities. The Ukrainian People's Party is also concerned about the lack of awareness of systemivity and responsibility in preparing Parliament's adoption of a bill on Ukraine's state budget for the following year. The draft state budget, submitted to the Supreme Council as a product of the previous government, does not correspond to life’s realities and should be thoroughly reworked. But there is no proper work on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers in this direction. The National Budget project completely ignores the needs of Ukrainian culture, including the support of Ukrainian as a national, agricultural, defence, medicine, education, and local self - government. In this regard, the Ukrainian People’s Party urges the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Parliament to take adequate measures to overcome this situation. The State budget for 2006 should be a budget for development and stability. At the same time, the Ukrainian People's Party warns the President of Ukraine and the Parliament against the danger of transforming the new government into another election headquarters. The government and parliament should focus on addressing the problems of socio-economic character and spiritual development, as well as national security challenges. And I will tell those who spoke to me that the UPA is a heroic page for Ukraine's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u9	Mikola Komar, a faction of the region of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u10	Dear fellow countrymen, I will now talk not about what is of interest to the individual political forces of society, but about how every Ukrainian feels today. Ukraine is on the verge of the biggest socio-economic crisis of all time. The crises — gasoline, meat, sugar, and grain — have practically put Ukraine on the brink of a gap. The so-called first revolutionary government of Tymoshenko was not simply unable to keep up the high pace of economic development provided by the government of Yanukovic, but they irresponsiblely squandered the legacy and actually bankrupted the country. The main culprits, therefore, did not bear any responsibility for what they had done, and many of them even kept their minister’s chairs. As it was known, on October 3, the Ministry of Finance started a loan campaign with Western creditors in conditions that were extremely unfavourable for Ukraine. The goal is to pay off pensions and wages. But at what price? Today, when the economy is barely breathing, the new Kabmin with the old Minister of Finance has come up with nothing better than asking for money abroad. That was five years ago. And if you take the total amount of current government debt, its left share, more than 40 percent, still consists of long-term borrowings for 2000-2001 when Yushchenko was prime minister. Today the government is going to borrow money just to eat. And that's not acceptable and that's the way to the chasm. The Party of the Regions refers to Prime Minister Yehanurov, whom we deeply respect and for whom we voted, demanding a review of today's loan campaign. Please consider this statement as an open call by the faction of the Party of the Regions to the Cabinet of Ministers, to which we add our proposals. They offer a different approach, professional and complex in the form of an urgent anti-crisis program developed by the Party of the Regions. And ready to help the government implement it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Victor Taran has a word from the BUT faction. Prepare Vitalia Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u12	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Victor Taran, Fatherland Party. Declare the factions of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The ruling of the Supreme Court of Ukraine according to which the NTN TV channel loses its language in 76 cities in Ukraine, the faction of the U.S. Yulia Timoshenko considers this decision to be a gross intervention in channel information policy, a restriction on freedom of speech, and a violation of citizens’ rights to objective information. Our faction puts us in line with the corruption scandal that followed Alexander Zinchenka's statement, Alexander Turchinova, Mikli Tomenka, and other authoritative politicians. And this unprecedented decision is convincingly indicative of the pressure on the judicial branch of power, and it is clear that, indeed, the frequencies taken from the NTN air have been, and are being prepared to do so, passed on to one of the loyal ones to the power of the television channels. Today, it is clear that the authorities are taking systematic steps to consolidate democratic processes in Ukraine: the resignation of the orange government of Yulia Timoshenko, the signing of a memorandum by Yushchenko-Januković, which has become a indulgence for bandits who are supposed to be behind bars, shows one thing: kuschemism returns. After betraying the ideals of the field, feeling the loss of people's trust, the authorities, at all costs, aim to win the parliamentary elections. There are no funds available from the appointment of Prime Minister Yehanurov, who is the Head of the Central Executive Board of NSOs to the creation of an information ghetto for independent media. The NTN has never supported our political power, but our goal is to protect freedom of speech and to stop Ukraine from slipping further into the bush. Today they're trying to limit NTN's air, tomorrow our country may have new Gongadze, Alexander's and dozens of other victims of a criminal-repressive machine. We also stress that citizens should have the right to full, not overcooked, information specially designed for people, an example of yesterday's comfortable Presidential Press Conference, during which he avoided direct air and did not want direct communication with the Ukrainian people. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko expresses support for the NTN network’s right to speak, calls on journalists to professional solidarity, and calls on the Ukrainian courts to defend their right to objective decisions. Let's protect the democratic slogans of the field together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u13	Yes, please, Vitaly Mother, the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u14	Vitaly Majko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs, its faction in Parliament, considers it necessary to make a statement in the context of Ukraine's recent socio-economic development. Economic growth is slowing down. There has been a sharp decline in GDP, and there are stronger fiscal components in the government's budgetary policy. The domestic producer replaces the importer, rapidly reduces the employment of the population in the basic sectors of the economy of Ukraine, while the prices and tariffs on food and services increase. The outcome of this situation is seen by the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine in the urgent development and adoption of effective anti-crisis measures to ensure normalization of the situation. In particular, cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed to ensure that legislative decisions are taken to restore investment confidence in the country; to prevent business from being divided into their own and foreign; to reform the tax system to ensure a real reduction in tax burden on producers and services; to abolish VAT on foreign investments, first of all, which are invested in the enterprise as statutory capital; to support the domestic exporter; to restore the investment regime in tech parks, free economic zones and TPOs within the framework of previously stolen investment contracts. We need to produce and urgently activate radical tools to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises, employment, such as public work financing. The budget should not only demonstrate an increase in the social level of Ukrainians, it should ensure the continued development of Ukraine's economy for the future. We demand to meet the needs of the Minpropolitics for the inclusion of 600 million dollars in the budget for the completion of aviation and shipbuilding programmes and high technology. These needs are a very small percentage of the volume that industrializes into the budget. In eight months, there are 7.2 billion dollars. It is these issues that we are raising that should become active in the legislative priorities, including the adoption of the 2005 State Budget and a series of budgeting laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Viacheslav Koval, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Get ready, Mikoli Sokirko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u16	Viacheslav Koval, a faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, during these sunny October days, the entire Ukrainian people have traditionally honored the hard work of education, and they welcome those whose efforts are actually based on the future of our great state. It is the education workers who work daily to provide Ukraine with professional, intellectual, patriotic personnel, passing on gold grains of knowledge and science to the young generation of our fellow citizens. We gratefully bow our heads to your wisdom, endurance, and self - sacrifice, your conscientiously fulfilling your professional responsibility. I am confident that you will continue to work to establish a rich, spiritually rich Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine conveys sincere thanks to all the educated for your worthy service to the chosen cause, your tireless creative search and dedication, for the goodness and generosity of your souls. We want to assure everyone in the education sector: we know and we remember your everyday difficulties, the socio-economic problems in the education sector as a whole. The People's Movement believes that the need to make it difficult, but so necessary for the State and its future work of Ukrainian educations to be prestigious and well paid, should become one of the priority vectors of state socio-economic policy. At the same time, we consider it necessary to note that the leadership of the Ministry of Education, the sciences of Ukraine are not given enough attention to the national and patriotic education of young people in educational institutions, especially in schools. We are convinced that the upbringing of young people in the spirit of patriotism, the love of Ukraine, the instigation of young democratic, European principles should be done from school. Patriots are not born, they are raised. Dear Educators, the National Movement of Ukraine, will continue to make every effort to draw the attention of the State and the public to the problem of Ukrainian education, to raise the social status of education workers. We will insist on continuing the steps that have been taken in this direction. Raising Ukrainian Patriots! Glory to the Educators, glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u17	Mikola Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine. He will be followed by Igor Šurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u18	Mikola Sokirko, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the faction "Our Ukraine" points out that political instability in the state has a negative impact on the ratings of Ukraine, which, according to the basic economic indicators, could have been higher and we urge all political forces to recognize their own responsibility for Ukraine's fate. In particular, October 4th was published information about the international rating agency. awarded a long-term rating. the planned release of Ukraine's Eurobond. As noted in the prime release. Ukraine's ratings reflect, firstly, a low level of government debt. The second is relatively good levels of external liquidity, and better than expected tax rates in the past 9 months of 2005. In doing so, the authoritative agency assesses Ukraine’s long - term credit rating of its national currency liabilities as stable. At the same time. stress that the Agency has taken into account a significant political risk that continues to be a key factor limiting ratings. The “Our Ukraine” faction reminds us that the risks mentioned are related to the political differences initiated by those political forces that have made a bet on the confrontation in society. We call on everyone, without exception, the political power of Ukraine to take a deep look at this data and realize that the political forces of Ukraine should take a deep look at this data and draw conclusions in the direction that the international image, authority and investment climate of the state weigh more than the dissatisfied political ambitions of individual Ukrainian politicians. And that bill that was adopted in the first reading of number 7539 on the system of social television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine wanted us to be able to support and adopt it in the Supreme Council, because it is this bill that enables us to meet the needs of society in operational information and to ensure the nature of language that today should reflect the national traditions and ethical principles of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u19	The word is Igor Shurma, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] After him, Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u20	The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In a qualitatively new situation, when after nine months of government, 12 days of reflection, the President gave priority to the interests of Ukraine, not to the interests of friends. The faction of SDPU(o) states that the formation of a new composition of the government, its staffing, has demonstrated that the change of government is an exceptional shutdown operation in the history of the new Ukraine's corruption scandal in the immediate surroundings of the President. And these actions in power are systemic. Remember the deaths of the people on Goverley and the immediate elimination of the DAI. Their goal is to turn society’s attention away from the most painful problems. The principles and mechanisms of the personnel repipe have been confirmed by the authorities and, in particular, the President has failed to admit his own mistakes, have failed to make the right conclusions, and what is so dismal and shameful is that they persist in implementing policies that will lead Ukraine to the final destruction of both the state government, the economic system and the rise of social tensions in society. The President's mouth is filled with other promises, or how fashionable to speak, of a man who can only calm the power. The reality. has shown that the exact opposite of the real policy of the new government has finally been established, culture, personal loyalty, family closeness and other categories, which have absolutely nothing to do with the principles of nation-building and the interests of the people, which gradually turn into an uninformed society. Nothing has changed since the Parisian grandmother’s visit to Banking, and the formation of a team is still under double standards. On the one hand, the President admits negative crises right here in the session room. On the other hand, he signs decrees on the appointment of those involved in the shameful results. Where is the President's truth, what does it mean and how do society react to him? The President's family-owned revolutionary slogan “Yes!” is completely inappropriate. The faction of SDPU(o) notes, the political crisis is the result of destructive, thoughtless, prejudiced government and human resources policies. However, the President does not draw conclusions by continuing to hold the highest positions of state and conferring high authority on people in the environment, without the experience of management and basic vocational education. The institutional development in Ukraine is openly halted by the opposition of power in the adoption of the Kabmin Act of Ukraine, in the unwillingness to conduct clear legislative mechanisms on government, we see the President and his environment trying to form the headquarters of the President's party on the basis of the principal executive body. The new appointments in the government have proved beyond a doubt to be such an understanding of the role and place of the government at the forerunner of the parliamentary elections. Today, it is clear that the personnel of the Wakhanalia are nothing more than “a holiday, a holiday that is a powder of fumes”. And the faction warns that this will not lead to a state-wide dung. On the question of whether the President is able to carry out effective policies, I want to say that the government of Yehanurov is the last in the history of Ukraine, which is shaped by the President alone. Polytreform will place a dot in unlimited authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u21	Sergey Sobolev, faction of Reforms and Orders. Igor Jeremeyev will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I would like to address everyone, including Ukrainian citizens, about the topic that went unnoticed in the session hall, namely, the restoration of the integrity of members of the local councils. I'd like our radios to understand what's going on. 250 thousand, a little more, Ukrainian citizens, who are now members of the local councils, are entitled to be touched with regard to criminal liability, arrest, and administrative responsibility imposed by the court, that is to say, including fines for violating traffic rules, solely by the consent of the local council. If this does not work out, then there is a right of appeal to a higher-level council, and thus it is possible to reach the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is an unprecedented case of a violation of the Constitution, since the Constitution provides an exhaustive list of those who are entitled to the right of inviolability. This is true of the judicial corps because of the limited right of inviolability and of the national deputies of Ukraine. Why is this done? In my opinion, in the context of the party lists that we will receive in the next election, we need to be interested in all the political forces so that in no way does the criminal elements get into these political lists of parties that are elected to the councils of virtually all levels. And that's why today there's a specific question: who's interested in almost a quarter of a million citizens getting out of the responsibilities of the law? Next. I would like to remind you that this was a separate agreement, just the signing of this bill. This is a terrible thing when, in fact, the political agreement lays down the responsibilities of almost a quarter of a million citizens for possible administrative, criminal or other offences. And the last. Today, a number of councils in Ukraine, local councils, have made statements that they do not need such intrusiveness. They think it's unacceptable -- the distribution of citizens into two categories, when some have to answer to the law, and others don't. That is why the faction of the Reform and Order Party refers to the possible consequences of the adoption of such an act. The deadlines for signing this law are now missed. The last chance that remains is to appeal to the Constitutional Court to bring into conformity with the Constitution the norms that directly contradict it, and I think only the Constitutional Court can establish the truth in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u23	Igor Jeremeyev, faction of the People’s Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u24	A statement by the faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, 14 years in a row at the state level, there is talk about Ukraine’s need for a development budget. Nevertheless, the budget for meals is adopted each year. In the same way, for 14 years the future of the nation is being sacrificed to social population. This year has not been a turning point. The past government was never able to carry out the mission he was taking, so I fed five loaves of bread to all hungry ones. According to the results of nine months, the ideology of the social budget has proved to be a failure, since from the increase in the social portion of the budget to 80 percent of the country’s population has not become richer. The increase in salaries for teachers, doctors, and other budget workers was, in fact, fiction. The local budgets to which this burden had been interrupted could not even theoretically endure it. This has resulted in the transfer of health - care professionals everywhere for part - time work. The steady rise in prices also contributed to the rise in pensions. So the faction of the People's Party suggests that we no longer go this wrong way. Today, we are responsible for not being able or voting in favour of the 2006 budget, as it completely repeats the mistakes of previous years. Let me give you some examples. The city of Dnipropetrovsk, if adopted in 2006, will have to close 7 hospitals and reduce 4,000 workers. More than 20 schools have already been closed in the Gitomir region. A few months ago, the leader of the People's Party, Vladimir Litwin, invited the President, Parliament and the government to develop a road map for the APC. So when the head of state responded to our demands and officially announced in the following year in the village, we hoped that the ice had broken. But that's not true. The draft of the main economic law that has been introduced has overturned all our hopes, and the government can't hear us or the President. Not only did Victor Yushchenk’s statement made in the sums in the congregations of young agrarians fail to be ignored. Because for whom was the budget resolution then adopted, which required the adoption of 10 per cent of the budget of the State for support of the agricultural sector of the economy? Where are the legal 14 billion dollars that peasants are waiting for? That's why the draft budget, as it were, is unacceptable to us. We demand the creation of a parliamentary-government working group to finalize the draft law. And I can tell the provocateurs that the hat on the thief is on fire. Learn to work with ministers rather than post labels on the stands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the performances are over. We have two petitions duly formulated regarding the dissatisfaction with parliamentary requests. Vladimir Puzakov has the word. Get Alexander Peckshank ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u26	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština What is going on today in the village of Salkovo Heivron district in Kirovgrad, historians will call a "crazy" after a decade. This is the result of democratic transformations in an independent Ukraine. And everything that's accumulated over 15 years of independence today has exploded with such a force that it's not compared to the U.S. Hurricane Katherine. The Hayvoron typhoon of the local spill not only destroys the remains of common sense in power but also washes away the remains of citizens’ trust in power. No more oaths and money during the election campaign will help the authorities. Even the songs of the Flood are no longer accepted there, for the weary and nervous people with the children are standing in a wall to protect their native sugar plant, which has been giving them long years of work, creating prosperity and prosperity in each family. In Soviet times, the factory was high - cost, and two thousand factory workers had a permanent job. The entire social sphere of the village was kept in a sugar factory. And here in 1996 came the so-called “lords” who had already been able to demolish dozens of factories in Ukraine. [[in quotes]] They stopped the plant, destroyed the village, left it without even drinking water. Thanks only to the factions of the Communists, the question of drinking water is being resolved today. In June, I was asked by the MPs about Timoshenko. But this letter showed that the troubles of the people meant nothing to them. They don't need people. On September 23, at seven o’clock in the morning, a horde of parts drove into the village to cut up a sugar plant and, as they say, in full arms, like bandits. People are shocked! Where could the bandits have gone, they should have been in prison, as Mr. President had said?Oh, my God! And without time to think, the village rose up to protect the factory. The people decided to seek refuge in power. But where is it? The authorities simply hid themselves from the people because they could not protect them. Not for the working people, but it works against those who are now being lifted up for heat and water against those who do not get a job against a peasant who is even more lenient in the neck. This has been repeatedly warned by Communists that the authorities do not need a working people. From this rostrum I remind the authorities that the people are not goods, they cannot be traded. And if the authorities today do not decide to stand up for the sugarfruits of the Salkova Heivoron district of Kyrovograd, it may be an unforeseeable finale. My address is to be included in the re-examination to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Alexander Pecklesenko is also dissatisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! The word that will follow in my statement concerns Parliament as a whole and each of us. The legislative system throughout the world is the most expensive and most important part of guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of society and citizens. In the list of key instruments, there are not many levers in the work of the MPs. And the MP's request, in my view, is the most effective way of influencing Parliament's executive power. But unfortunately, in recent times, the executive power on the ground, and in Kiev, frankly, ignores our constitutional right with you to receive comprehensive answers to our requests. And that's what the President's Administration is all about. Since the inauguration of the President in the Supreme Council, 37 parliamentary requests have been voted on. Of these, four are mine, for which I am very grateful to you colleagues. Each of these requests is a cry of souls from the region, from the Zaporozhye region. You have similar problems with insulin supply. Issues relating to human settlements heating, the agricultural crisis. And one last question. Gasification of villages and small cities. Not one of these issues that borders on national disaster has been addressed, nor have I received a reasonable answer to content. Generally, it was two figures and three percentages that could be taken by any person on the Goskomstat website. Special attention should be paid to the form of response to requests from the deputy corps. The first responses to the President's requests were signed by Zinchenko, today Rybachuk, let's ask ourselves why we voted with you, not at the request of the secretariat, but at the request of the President. We must be sure that the request is considered personally by the President. We and our constituents need to see who and what the President is responsible for. The answers should also include his visa that he agrees or disagrees with the agency that has considered our request with you. When responses to a request from the MP would be accompanied by a signature from the President, then perhaps they would not be so offensive to Parliament and the electorate. By the way, why aren't the President's responses to parliamentary requests on the Supreme Council website, that's classified material? Dear colleagues, the question I have raised is very important if we are unable to uphold the constitutional right of the people's MP, whether our voters can count on the protection of their interests. On the basis of the foregoing, I request the leadership of the Supreme Council to organize a working meeting of the deputy corps.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a problem with the requests, and I'm going to introduce you to the manual prepared by the Supreme Council's Office of Control, but let's make claims to each other. On the one hand, I fully support the speech of my colleague Peckushenko, as they respond to our questions, now I'm going to go into more detail on this, according to the help I'm going to say. But on the other hand, let's not forget what we're doing to the MPs. The 170 MPs that we've accepted today are far from a parliamentary request, these are letters to you, the national MPs, and you, instead of responding to these letters, write to a member's request instead of a deputy's request. So let's be mutual, self-critical. Now, for the record, the problem raised by Deputy Peckushenko. The Control Department reports that during the seventh, eighth sessions, we sent you to the President, this is the Supreme Council that can only make 37 requests. On October 4, they received the answers to 35 questions. At the signature of the President, there were 10 replies to 35 requests. Finally, the signatures of Secretary of State Zinchenko – 20, First Deputy Secretary of State Motsik – 3, Head of the Secretary of the President of the Ukraine of Rybauk – 2nd In addition, the final replies to the President's requests during the seventh session were given to the National Deputies: Prime Minister Timoshenko – 1, First Deputy Prime Minister Kinakh – 1, Attorney-General – 3, Minister of Environmental Protection – 1, Minister of Health – 1, Minister of Agriculture, even Deputy Minister of Finance, etc. During the seventh non - compliance session, 15 responses were provided with a basic delay of up to five days. Three answers were given after more than 10 days. It is true that all the answers come within the time limits established by law after the meeting of the President of the Supreme Council with the President during the eighth session. And another number. According to statements issued by the Ukrainian people's deputies at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, 64 letters were prepared and sent to the President of Ukraine under the authority of the Supreme Council, asking to consider the issues raised in the above-mentioned statements. Of these, 54 letters were sent during the seventh session and now there are 10. For 50 letters, previous replies were received and no replies were received to the seven letters. In these 64 letters of reply, the President personally signed only three. So there's a problem. But once again, I say, let's do the same, dear fellows, and we'll be more careful about the questions that we're making. Is there a problem with motive? Sign up, three minutes, please. Please be on the monitor for three minutes. Orzhachowski, Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u30	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Colleague Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u31	Please, Mikoli Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u32	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, I thought that at least comments would be made on the debauchery of the socialist speaker by throwing papers in his face. But I'm upset about something else. I am outraged by the cynicism with which the socialists who sold the interests of the people, entering the Government of Yushchenko, pursue their policies. Today, the speaker, a man born by the Kuchma regime, worked in his immediate surroundings. For his excellent work, he probably received a well in the Poltava region and today to speak up and throw papers in the face of the entire Parliament, at least it is cynicism towards our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u33	Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u34	Adam Ivanovich, the situation is not as superficial as you called it in your summary of Piclusenko's statement that we're dropping requests into all organs. The request was after we had done the oral work, after we had beaten the thresholds and made a mass of calls to the relevant authorities. And then we use this regulatory tool. I think you can ask factions how many meetings, how many letters are written. This shows that there is a disorder in power, in the country. People who don't respect themselves are ignored. Therefore, MPs are forced to use their entire tool to defend the interests of their constituents and those to whom they turn. Therefore, I would like to propose that this situation be reviewed and that this situation be held at the special meeting referred to by Piclusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u35	Turn off the micro-million. I'm paying attention to "Work": not three minutes for motivation, but one minute. Please keep an eye on the board. Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask you, because you are personally responsible for what question will be considered in the order of the day. I would ask you not to put an end to the Law on Temporary, Investigative and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. He is at the end of the day, and it is clear that no one will consider him. And again it will be, and again all will work without law. And the lawlessness that we're talking about today, we can't fight it with parliamentary methods. So, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to respond better to this law. One. And the second. I'd like to ask you to assign a Code of Law on Road Traffic. Let's prepare it, take it out for first reading, consider it. What is being done on the road today is what has been canceled by DAI, which has not been canceled, which is being reformed by each minister on his own. You see, we have to adopt laws, we are parliamentarians. They have to do them. I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u37	Yes, well-respected colleagues exchanged their motives. On the question, I apologize to those colleagues who say that they do what the Rules require, and I did not say that we all do. But believe me, if 170 asks in one day, not all of them are there. However, once again, our response to our questions is virtually zero. And we have to do something about it, and we can do it with you when there's a right in the Supreme Council. As of January 1, we will expect such a right to appear. Regarding the observation of Yuri Anatoliovich. On the other hand, we agreed on the Conciliation Council that the issues that remained unfinished on the day that was being considered would be passed on to the next day first and so on. I mean, one way or another, we're going to get to this law with you. But understand, I understand you, understand the guidance, each of you walks and asks you to put it, the law, first, because tomorrow I can't or I'm going away tomorrow. So it's going to be what it's going to be. I repeat, they called names, called one of the deputies, let him come. A deputy called will come along, and then we'll talk to you, because you're a specialist on the lines. Yes, there are two factions, "Go ahead, Ukraine!" and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs wants to announce a break. But I realized that they were ready to make a statement. Yes, please, who's going to make the application? What's the matter with you? Please. It's three minutes instead of a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I am forced to address today's situation not only in the Supreme Council but also in Ukraine as a whole in society. I listened to Rudzkowski's speech. And, you know, I'm a lawyer, I'm a man who worked for over 20 years in the police force. And today, looking at how socialist Lucenko destroyed the militia completely what was created, how he created a completely blackmailing organ. And the second socialist, the APC, went underground. The villagers are naked, the bosses don't even know where the kids are. And Rudzkowski, who. Only yesterday in Ukraine did 221 Mercedes show up in the 221st box, do you think who ordered it and bought it? Rudkowski! First in Ukraine! And Rudzkowski, where's your conscience, will I ask you? When you went to meet Kuchma, I remember that well, and you hit a man on the car, you killed a man. A criminal case was committed, which was ordered by Kuchma to shut down. And today you have another word! And I want to ask. What's your oil well quota? And what's your quota on the Creature? You socialists are stealing money every month. I want to ask you, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you: tell me, today, the Socialist faction has announced that $5 million to anyone who wants to go to the first 20 elections. It's from Yushchenka, at the expense of Maidan. You're ruining society in Ukraine. You go to the Supreme Council, you see the people immediately. Lenin also called you hicks, remember the story. I'm still interested, Your Honor, in the ice cream. Do not let your sick head fall on a healthy one, and do not touch Lithuania, please. Lithuania to Gongadze has a relationship like that of me to space. The thing is, the CIA agent became the first ice cream in Ukraine. He knew about Gongadze, he was cursing Melnick. And he wanted to take power at the mill. And today, through the CIA, he's acting on the U.S. President, whom the Americans are pushing, and he's taking away all the quotas in the state. In fact, all power in the state belongs to the Frost and the Socialists. Thank you. But we have to fight it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, please, Rudzkowski, minutes of replication, mentioned the name. You weren't mentioned. Rudzkowski's microphone, please, Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not answer Deputy Nechiporuku. I think we should do his examination first. But I'll give the Communists an answer. Respectable Communists. At the time that you did everything in the past presidential elections to defeat Leonid Kuchma, when you were laying your shoulders on the way to the country, and now you're setting Lithuania's shoulders again to continue to rule in Ukraine, that's one thing that says that you haven't changed, you're with them, you want us to have that state that was dictatorial when they destroyed journalists when no one was responsible for what they said. I wasn't responsible for the actions, and if anyone has any claims, let's go to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u41	Yes, dear fellows, don't raise your hands. All those who had the opportunity to do so exchanged. I repeat: everyone has exchanged. We spent 99 minutes with you and me instead of 45 minutes. So I'm going to say it again, I'm going to say it again, I'm going to say it again, I'm going to say it again, remember who started talking? Who answered? Pick up your stenographer and then we'll deal with you. I repeat, you've exchanged all the lines. Have a seat, please. Did you exchange lines? They've traded. Kravchenko took the floor first, then Rudzkowski, all of it. Someone's about to come forward, then they won't be right again. I repeat: according to the Rules. Have a seat, please. From the hall. Don't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u42	Yes, dear colleagues, once again, we have spent 101 minutes with you instead of 45 minutes. So today, since we are only working until lunchtime, we will be working without interruption. Let's move on to the question. I repeat, they've been swapped. There is a question of ratification, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. 0288. Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich reports from the government. Get ready for Player's. Yes, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian State has made similar agreements with dozens and dozens of countries. This is a typical agreement, but I would like to stress the importance of making a promotion agreement and mutual investment protection with Finland. It is a country that has been the most competitive, most successful country for three years. It takes first place in human development indexes. And if we look at statistics, the Finnish investment is 0.1 percent of the total investment in Ukraine is the pitiful $7 million. And one of the factors that deters is the flow of foreign direct investment from Finland to Ukraine in the priority of our economy, to the manufacturing sector, is the absence of a contractual base. So I would like to point out that the said agreement establishes the regime of the greatest contribution and the national regime in terms of governance, maintaining the use of revenue and the management of its investments. A regime that is fair and equally favourable, which it is, which the receiving country gives to its own investors. This agreement identifies possible forms and types of investment. And a separate chapter provides standardized guarantees against their removal. Internationally defined dispute resolution mechanisms are envisaged, including in court. Please support this law, ratify this agreement, and I am confident that it will facilitate the participation of Finnish investments. The country you know is actually a neutral country that runs a very balanced social policy, which is one of the priority partners for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u44	Thank you. There's a question. Wait, please sign up. Three minutes. Please, Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u45	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u46	Simonnka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u47	The Communist faction. The distinguished rapporteur, we, the Communist faction, will support this project and believe that as a party that seeks to develop mutually beneficial cooperation with other States, this is our principled position. But we are embarrassed by the fact that the authorities and representatives of the various political forces in power will implement these decisions. Whether they will be used for the benefit of the people or for individual oligarchic groups only, which, under these laws, exercise their interests. That's why I'm talking about it. In 1999, the Kanev Quartet, which was created by some politicians, was created to keep Kuchma in power and, by deceiving people until October, by deceiving people, by trying to do so. Especially when it's said that the grandkids tell us how to work in Ukraine. I'd like you to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u48	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. I'd like to directly answer your question why it's important for us to stress, direct foreign investment and just from a country like Finland. Because they're going to bring not only a certain financial resource into our economy, not only to pass on the experience of technical, financial management, but it's the businessmen from these countries who are carrying a new ethic of neoligarchic business. These are the kind of businessmen who are used to paying taxes. And I want to tell you that in the mini-Davos towers in June, I spoke to one of the leading Finnish businessmen, and he said, "We don't understand why it's the political elite in Ukraine, the business elite that violates the traffic rules, goes red light, why it doesn't always adhere to business ethics." And I would be very pleased to see these new business ethic media more and more at the Ukrainian industrial enterprises where they have to invest in money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u49	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! I will certainly vote in favour because I believe that this agreement will contribute to the further development of our cooperation between Ukraine and Finland. And also because Finland practically built the socialism that we've been talking about for over 70 years, and there women and women have joined the leadership of the state and everything else they've done, including fighting corruption. But that's the question. Article 13 establishes that the agreement replaces and terminates the agreement between the Government of Ukraine, the Government of Finland, which was concluded on January 30, 1994, during Ukraine’s independence. I have a question: "Why, in your opinion, and the deal that was before, has not been able to carry out the tasks that we now set, and will it not be the same with this agreement? Because I've looked carefully, you know, I read every last drop in every law, I'm not.?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u51	Answer. Since 1994, we have not yet had a sufficiently developed practice of working out detailed different international legal instruments. And this document introduces a lot of new tools. For example, at that time we were not members of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes at the World Bank. I can give it to you. It's just you're an expert lawyer, well, not taking much time, you know, introducing new, new standards that provide additional guarantees for normal business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last week we had the head of the Finnish Parliament. The meeting of the Head of Parliament with the Prime Minister of Finland will be over in a moment. Let's have this agreement ratified by the end of the meeting so that they can go to the press, knowing that. No objections? Then I am voting on the adoption of the Ratification Act between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Registration number 0288. Please vote. [[11:50.]] For 323 Act adopted, treaty ratified. I think we've done a nice job for the Prime Minister of Finland. Thank you. A draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the rules governing the movement of persons between the member states of the Council of Europe is under consideration. He will report, the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Buteyko Anton Denisovich. 0273. prepare Grachev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished national deputies, good afternoon to you. The draft Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Rules Governing the Movement of Persons between the States Members of the Council of Europe is being introduced. As we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has its Open World for Ukrainians and Ukraine for the World! In this context, it is important to ratify the document which is presented for your consideration, which will facilitate the facilitation of the travel regime of Ukrainian citizens to European states, the promotion of free movement of capital and services between Ukraine and countries, first and foremost the members of the European Union. This issue has been particularly relevant in connection with the accession of the new 10 nations to the European Union in May 2004, resulting in a common border between the European Union and Ukraine. The European Agreement on Rules Governing the Movement of Persons between the States Members of the Council of Europe was signed in 1957. The purpose of the document is to simplify the travel of the citizens of the states of the parties that may enter the territory of the State of the other party or to leave it through any borders at the presentation of one of the documents listed in the appendix to the agreement. I would like to point out that, in the event of Ukraine's accession to the agreement, and now 15 States are parties to the agreement, some of the participating States, which are also members of the EU, may declare that it is impossible to apply it in their relations with Ukraine in view of the existence of internal EU legislation that regulates the movement of persons. In this connection, we have a warning that will enable us to apply the proper regime to the citizens of these nations. I will not write down all the details of the content of this agreement, I can only stress that this document will allow our citizens to move more freely to Europe and will contribute to the achievement of the goals for which the people have chosen the national deputies of Ukraine. And of course I'd like to ask you to support and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Anton Denisovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, three minutes, please. Orzhachowski, followed by Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Your Honor, I don't mind the deal, but I wanted to ask you. Knowing the situation of how we have policies at state level, how we are making investments abroad, and how money is being exported from Ukraine, you have this phrase in your report that is going to improve the movement of capital. So you mean, after that, the better thing is the legal capital movement or the criminal illegal movement? Because even today, we don't have a clear, what they say, tracts of this article. Please tell me what would be better after this ratification? What kind of capital do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u56	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs adheres to the principle of the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution and supports all that is legal. In this case, the agreement will provide for a freer movement of citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u57	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u58	Thank you. Anton Denisovich. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Ukraine. Well, first of all, I think that the creation and promotion of foreign affairs by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of favourable conditions for capital movement is an extremely positive thing because it contributes to Ukraine's transition to an innovative development model and to the investment filling of another economy. But I have a specific question about the text of the European Agreement. Please tell me, could Ukraine, in the event that these bilateral, multilateral, parties to this agreement refuse to comply with their own requirements? Can Ukraine, in turn, decide that Ukraine too, in response to a breach of its contractual terms, Ukraine also has the right and can, by protecting its national interests, the interests of its people, accept the same adequate response?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Yes, article seven foresees such actions. [[part of each other]] And if you look at the draft law, it provides exactly a warning that allows us to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u60	Basil Nadragha will be able to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u61	Please tell me. Today, we are considering a law on how our citizens, including those who are signatories, can travel to countries that are signatories to this instrument. But answer me. Today we have allowed free entry to us from the countries of the European Union of Switzerland, Japan and the United States. They said, "Thank you for making us feel good." But we leave the same conditions for you. That is, our citizens will travel to those countries under the same actual conditions they were driving before we went to meet those countries. So here's the question. Isn't that, I beg your pardon, what was once called low worship before the West? We're them, and we're sorry, wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. I can assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has never suffered this complex of low worship before anyone, either before the West, or before the East, or the South, or the North. We're trying to protect our own national interests. Now, about those things you were talking about. Yes, indeed, a visa-free regime has been introduced for certain categories of citizens you have been talking about. I can inform you that in connection with this visa-free entry, we have an increase in the number of citizens who visited Ukraine from these countries, nearly twice as many as two million to more than two million. The ones who brought their money and supplies, and partly provided our hotel complexes, tourist complexes, and so forth. And that's a plus. On the other hand, I'm going to repeat some of the material that I've just announced. There is part 2 of article 7 and our warning with you if you approve of one that will allow us to act adequately toward those nations that do not treat us properly. I would also like to inform you that the European Union is currently in the process of producing a negotiating mandate on their part with us, so that the regime is liberalised with regard to the travel of citizens of Ukraine to the States of the European Union. We hope that by the summit that will take place between Ukraine and the EU on 1 December, some steps will already be taken in the negotiation process of materializing this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u63	How much, indeed, did an interesting question come to mind? Is it true, Anton Denisovich, that we are losing our budget of 40 million dollars? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. All I can say is that the overall analysis of the revenues that came into the budget as a result of such actions goes beyond the revenues that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received from the Consular Assembly. But in this connection, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you when you approve the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take this into account. And, accordingly, reflect that we have proper funding in view of those losses from consular congregations that are not in the interest of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this context, but are of general benefit to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Mr. Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The draft law on the ratification of the European Agreement introduced by the President of Ukraine on the rules governing the movement of persons between the States members of the Council of Europe has been discussed on the Committee. The agreement on behalf of Ukraine was signed on February 18, 2005 by Anatoly Shevchuk, Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the Council of Europe. The purpose of the law is to take effect on Ukraine’s European Agreement, the rules governing the movement of persons between States members of the Council of Europe. With the aim of simplifying the formalities of the travel of Ukrainian citizens to the countries of the parties to the agreement. The mechanism of this simplification has just been discussed by Anton Denisovich. Adherence to the agreement does not provide for additional financial costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The agreement does not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, its implementation, or the adoption of new laws or amendments to the current legislation of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the agreement. The Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration and Law Enforcement and Human Rights, National Minorities and National Relations support the ratification of the agreement. Our committee recommended the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Vote. I'll bet you a vote, 12 minutes. Please, Karmazin. After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Whether ratification of such an agreement is needed. Of course, I am sure that the ratification of the European Agreement on the rules governing the movement of persons between the member states of the Council of Europe since 17 June 2005 is absolutely necessary. Another question. As we are going to represent Ukraine today in relations with other countries, including those 15 countries that have signed and are valid for them, it is Austria, Belgium, Holland, Greece, Spain, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, Slovenia, Turkey, France, France and Switzerland. It's because of the fact that, unfortunately, Anton Denisovich, we've invited everyone to our home. We're absolutely open. And no one's open to us. And this new open policy by President Yushchenk has shown that, yes, we are so good, we are so sincere Ukrainians. Who, then, would show one country that has taken steps to make it easier for the average Ukrainian to cross the border of FERN or France, or Malta, or Luxembourg, or Belgium? No one has done anything to meet us. From this open-door policy, it seems to me, which is a continuation and then an introduction to the WTO, and we already have problems importing cars for people with disabilities. We stopped paying for cars for the disabled. I'm talking to those who, with foam in their mouth, were protecting the government that was sitting here when I said, "Think what you're taking?"Oh, my God! Already there are problems, people are putting them in today’s position. Well, dear friends, I'd like to be practical. We're going to ratify this agreement. But in practical activities let's not just be so completely open and only on mutual terms, because this relationship with Ukraine, this love for Ukraine, does not exist at all. It's going to go through, it's going to go through the fall, it's going to start to get a little green and it's all going to change, and the color in this room is going to change. I would ask you to protect the average Ukrainian who is the highest integrity in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u69	Please, Masenko Alexander, the Communist faction, followed by Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u70	I also support the proposal made by the previous speaker that this treaty should be ratified, although it may not be in the best interest of the Ukrainian average citizens. But still, to some extent, it's probably going to simplify the order of the border crossing between the countries of Europe. Here we can rephrase the words of our great poet Shevchenka: “Go and learn, but do not turn away from yours.” And in this regard, what we need to say is what we are, both the previous president and the government, and today's president and government, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Why is it such a question that we always go to the humiliation of our nation? We always go to the humiliation of our people. But look at it, and let it not be said in an insult to the citizens of that country that I speak of, but they say from infancy, “Why are you like a Turk?” Yes, the Turks, he sees how they defend their interests, they won't go to the European Union if someone dictates conditions. They said to the whole world that they would only go on equal terms, they would go as an equal state. And we're always trying to humiliate our actions so that we're on some level, so we're trapped in some kind of hole. And it's not just national interests, it's not your national dignity, it's your national betrayal that's manifesting itself in everyone who's now involved in this matter from both the President and the government, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Indeed, both U.S. citizens and the European Union and Canada and Switzerland, Japan, can all cross the border freely. And from our way, how the intestines will start rolling, where both you and those who will or will not come back, how many of us may lose interest and see what to do abroad. But what I'm most curious about is, why couldn't I just assign the Prime Minister to where he went? They're not going to Canada, they're going to Russia. They get on their knees because we die, we fail, who knows if there's anything to breathe, or if there's anything to melt. And we can't make Russia our roots. And you can't do this here, really, normal, without a visa regime, so that people can cross the border normally. Why don't you put the citizens of Russia here by presidential decree, so they can freely cross the border and there are no obstacles that we now have for the Russians and Russia for the Ukrainians. It's a disgrace! For all governments, starting with Yeltsin, Kravczuk, presidents and all those who are now in charge of both this country and this country, if we can't agree to a common state of ours, a source that is in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u71	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party, followed by Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u72	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Respectable colleagues, the bill must certainly be supported. But I would also like to draw attention to the issue that I have been asking and the topic that is, in principle, well under discussion today. The bottom line is this. What is State self - respect? How do we view ourselves as a State? Do we respect ourselves as a State? Accordingly, I believe that self-respect should be similar in foreign policy. No one's saying that we have to deal with a neighbor. Everyone in this room will probably agree with me that I never said that when I went to this rostrum that we had a opponent, but that we had an enemy in foreign politics. Let's build on parity. If someone needs us, if anyone needs us, it doesn't mean that one of the parties has to, so to speak, stand on their knees and the other one does what we think is necessary. And here's what I've been saying, and I've been asking, and the respectable Deputy Secretary has been saying that, yes, there is a problem. We, on the one hand, went all the way up to the $40 million that the country lost on a visa-free trip. It's also money, they've never been too much. But why don't we meet? Why they tell us, you stay the way you are, you pay the money, you go to the interview, everything else, and we'll go to you as we think is necessary. So self-respect, I think, is in principle. On the other hand, there are other examples. We have examples when we can negotiate and this is for the benefit of our citizens. After all, Russia met last year by increasing the deadline for our citizens staying in its territory to be there without all these registrations, authorization systems and everything else. So, in principle, we, as a State, are able to negotiate with our neighbours, with those to whom our citizens are going, so that our citizens can be seen as normal representatives of a normal country. And that's normal. Therefore, by ending the subject of self - respect, I can say that if we allow ourselves to be treated as we sometimes do, others will treat us that way. Today we were with you examples of one of the political assistants here pouring dirt. The man is down, I beg your pardon, to be a political assistant. We must not go down before that. We must have self-respect. We're like deputies, we're like countries, we're like people. I support this agreement, but I believe that we need to think and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u74	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, the purpose of ratifying the European Agreement on the Rules Governing the Displacement of Citizens between Countries Members of the Council of Europe is to facilitate the formality of the travel of Ukrainian citizens to the countries parties to the agreement. It has already been said that Ukraine's agreement was signed last February. I would like to draw the attention of both the audiences and those who are present that this agreement in itself implies that countries parties to this agreement may cross borders for up to three months without visas if the purpose of their visit is not a profit. Why is that exactly what I'm drawing your attention to? Ratification of this agreement will unfortunately not relieve Ukrainian citizens of the need for visas. Moreover, Austria, Hungary, Greece, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany, object to the application of the agreement to facilitate the entry of citizens into Ukraine even after ratification of the agreement. And I am not surprised by the attitude of these States towards Ukraine. This demonstrates the low authority on the international scene, not so much as Ukraine, which is a peace-loving State, with respect for international law. This attitude towards the facilitation of the travel of Ukrainian citizens to the EU shows a low level of authority in Western European countries for the senior authorities and for President Yushchenko himself. This is an assessment of the foreign policy course they have conducted, which is the course of the United States Fairway of Aggressive Policy. Indeed, unilaterally, President Yushchenko has in fact opened access to Ukraine to the representatives of those countries, to the citizens of those countries of Japan and the United States of America. In response, as you can see, we have a very special attitude. I believe that ratification of the agreement is necessary, because we still need to assist our citizens and help solve these problems. Because today we know that there is a very high unemployment rate in Ukraine. Yushchenko has promised to create five million jobs, nothing is done in this direction, and it is not visible that this concern is first of all with the new Government. We are talking about the fact that accession to this agreement will not allow people to use visa-free entry if they are going to make a profit. In fact, people who are going to work will not enjoy this right. But we know that there is, in fact, illegal emigration. I believe that ratification of this agreement is necessary, but I draw the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the need to resolve the relationship on the free access of citizens of Russia, Ukraine and Russia. This issue needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand you'd like to talk, but let's understand those who want the bills to be discussed today. Explain to whom? Without explanation, we will now vote. If we do not vote, you will explain, the first deputy from the Committee spoke. I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the European Agreement on the Rules Governing the Movement of Persons between States Members of the Council of Europe. Registration number 0273. Please vote. [[12:14:51]] For 275 The law is passed. The deal's ratified. The draft Law on the ratification of the Trade and Economic Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Peru is being complied with. Registration number 0287. Report to Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich, prepare Grachev. I said, instead of 45 minutes for requests and announcements, we spent 101 minutes with you. That's why we're working on breaks today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I will be as concise as possible to save your time. From Peru, we don't have absolutely no legal basis in the queen of economic relations, that's the first deal. Why is it important to build it? Our exports in Peru are constantly evolving. During the last year, the trade doubled. In addition to traditional goods: fertilizers, metallurgical products, have already developed positions such as 10 million printed products, air navigation technology. So these are the goods that can, as it were, stop their exports at high rates of import duty. Therefore, once this agreement is concluded, article 1 will introduce the most favourable regime and our goods will have more favourable access to markets in Peru. When it comes to imports from Peru, our exports are 10 times higher than these imports. Therefore, for the national interests of Ukraine, it is vital that this agreement be concluded in order to develop the economic relations of our enterprises. I'm asking you to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Any questions? None. Thank you. Have a seat. Please, one sentence, two committees and we will vote. First Deputy Chairman of Committee Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich. The committee's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Peru. This agreement was signed on 16 July last year by then's Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine's Derkac. The adoption of the Law of Ukraine will be an essential and necessary component of the development of bilateral relations, as well as a stable long - term foundation between the contracting parties and the peoples of the two nations. This agreement strengthens the party’s commitment to promote investment and the circulation of capital in goods and services between the two countries. I want to point out that the implementation of the law does not require additional material and other expenses. For information. The main scientific and export administration, the Economic Policy Committee, the administration of national ownership and investment support the adoption of the law by the Supreme Council. Our committee has decided to recommend the law before adoption. Please support and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u79	Thank you. Shall we vote? Well, let's do it in one minute who insists. Mironenko, please, one minute and a black man one minute. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u80	Adam Ivanovich, three minutes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u81	If you're gonna talk about the case, there's three.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u82	It's done. First, Finland. I don't think we can pass laws like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u83	Turn off the microphone. Victor Andryovich, come on, don't let me down. It's done. Come on, please. We're not talking about Finland, we're talking about Peru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u84	Dear compatriots, we are now constantly voting without thinking about what we are talking about. This is where we're talking about Peru. We've been reviewing draft legislation recently. and Afghanistan, and other distant countries. But why do we not work well with neighbouring States, on which our market, the commodity market, the market for our goods and, in particular, relations with Russia depend. In this case, it is impossible to say in one minute what was supposed to be said in three minutes. But I want to say briefly, I have addressed the head of the Government of Ukraine. I'm sorry, it's not a job anymore. I'm calling it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u85	Please, Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u86	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I think we are doing the right thing, we need to support this bill. In general, I would put this issue in a broader context, and we should think about it both to Parliament and to the government. Ukraine has to make an economic expansion in Latin America, the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Africa. That's where our markets are, that's where our investments are, that's where we are. I think we should think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u87	Yes, we do. I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the Trade and Economic Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Peru. Registration number 0287. Please vote. [[12:20:54]] For-286 The law is passed. The trade-economic agreement has been ratified. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Willlessness for Further Punishment, registration number 0293. Deputy Justice Minister Gorbunova Lydia Mikolayevna. To prepare Kalestin Valeria from the Legislative Security Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies! A draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Willlessness is being submitted to your consideration for further punishment. The contract was signed on March 23, 2005, in Ashgabad. It is subject to ratification in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. It should be noted that the 1993 Convention on Legal Aid and Legal Relations in Civil, Family, and Criminal Matters is in place today in relations between Ukraine and Turkmenistan. However, its position does not cover the transfer of sentenced persons. Along with the second part of article 10 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, it is established that foreigners convicted in Ukraine may be handed over for punishment for a crime committed to that State of which they are citizens if such transfer is provided for in Ukraine’s international treaties. Therefore, the conclusion of this treaty aims to regulate the cooperation of both States to promote the correction and social rehabilitation of convicted persons and provides for the transfer of persons sentenced by the State of sentencing to the State of enforcement of the sentence for the remaining sentence. The terms under which convicted persons may be transferred are laid down in this treaty. A mandatory condition for the transfer of sentenced persons is the existence of his consent or the consent of his legal representative to transfer the State to the execution of the sentence. The execution of the sentence is carried out in the territory of the State in accordance with its domestic legislation. Each of the two nations can consider pardoning the condemned person or applying amnesty. Yet only the state of sentencing has the right to review the sentence handed down against the person who has been handed down. The Central Authorities have been designated by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for Ukraine, and the Office of the Attorney-General of Turkmenistan for Turkmenistan. The Treaty does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, as its implementation is provided within the limits of the costs foreseen for the maintenance of the criminal enforcement system. In the light of the foregoing, I would like to support the decision on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on the transfer of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty for further punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorary Colleagues, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, reviewed by the President of Ukraine draft Law Registration No. 0293. The Treaty does not require changes to existing legislation or additional costs from the State budget. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus believes that the treaty can be ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine without reservation. The committee decided to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a whole as the Law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u91	Yes, do those who have signed up insist on speaking? Vote. School. School's written down. Please, microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out that, of course, this bill was passed by a committee, but there and then, and now, I'm going to highlight some warnings because we know that there are, let's say, some kind of criminal code in Turkmenistan. To this day, there is the death penalty. Therefore, all those who were to be punished in Turkmenistan should be given parity. And it has to be clearly regulated here, even though we have laws in Ukraine that we don't have the right to issue, but also those people who will have, who may be subjected to torture, or the death penalty, nevertheless, I think that this ratification treaty should also have a clear warning of such cases, because certain principles of humanism should operate in democratic states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u93	Yes, shall we vote? I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Turkmenistan on the Transfer of Persons Convicted of Willlessness for Further Punishment, Registration No. 0293. Please vote. [[12:26:24]] For 275 Law accepted, treaty ratified. Yeah, with the ratification we're done for today. Let us go to the section “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. That's a question that we didn't discuss last night. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since July 07, this year. Registration number 5439. Since the Cabinet of Ministers is now in session with the President, the rapporteurs are not ministers, they are their deputies. Please, Hot Helen Vasilovna. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The adopted Supreme Council of Ukraine and the bill to be signed by the President proposes to apply the principle of a new approach to the calculation of pensions for war invalids, war participants, and families of the dead. It is possible to increase by an appropriate percentage the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs from 10 percent to 70 percent. In the current law, these increases were based on the size of the minimum pension at the age of 15 bracelets. In general, by upholding the law, the President, on the basis of his constitutional powers, asks the Supreme Council to consider his proposals and support the following. Section 4 of article 15 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection provides for wives of dead wargoers who have been recognized as disabled in life, and for them there is a measure of calculation of the increase resulting from the old minimum retirement rate. Therefore, the President proposes that, in order to harmonize the approach and that all persons who are stipulated by this law have the same promotion, coming out of the subsistence minimum, to include this law and this category of persons. Taking into account that the implementation of the law will require at least 1.7 billion dollars of additional budgetary resources and these costs in the draft State Budget Act are not foreseen, it is proposed to implement this law in a step-by-step manner: from January 1st it is proposed to increase pensions for participants in hostilities, for the disabled of the Great War, and for those who have been called the Hero of Ukraine, the Hero of the Soviet Union, and for those who have been involved in hostilities since January 1st 2006, for the families of dead military personnel, for the families of the dead persons with disabilities of war, since July 1st, 2006, for those who have participated in the war since January 1st, 2007. Under these circumstances, the law will be implemented in 2006 with up to 557 million dollars, and in 2007 with up to 951 million dollars. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the President's proposals. Please support the President's proposals and allow for increased payment to the participants of the war at the stages proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to a problem that, I'm quite sure, each and every one of you has met a number of times during our election. The point is that for today’s day, payments for the status of various categories of wargoers are made from a minimum pension at the age of six years, i.e. the 19th anniversary of 91 copies. It's totally illegal and there's absolutely no excuse. Therefore, the committee suggested that the amount of these allowances be linked to the minimum of living and that something be increased, and most importantly, after each increase in the subsistence minimum, the amount of this supplement is automatically increased. So that's why, coming out of the 19 bucks of 91, today the warlord gets not even 10 bucks, but the pathetic 9 bucks of 96. I'll tell you more. Parents who lost their child in Afghanistan get 29 bucks for their child’s death. People! Let's think about it! A man, as sent by the State to war, is likened to 29 bracelets. I beg of you, from the committee, personally, from your parents to support the veto. You know, we did some research by the committee. And here's the result. From 1995 to 2000, 240,000 wartime participants were killed each year. Between 2000 and 2005, there are 363,000 people living each year. The president says let them wait! What will a man who is now 80 or more look forward to? It's not going to wait for anything, so the committee is specifically asking you to overcome the President's veto on this bill and to introduce it fully, starting on September 1, 2006. I very much ask your colleagues to help your parents, and help yourself in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u97	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting according to procedure, the President's motions will be voted first. The President has two suggestions: a comment to article 5 suggests that part 4 of article 5 be made in a new edition. I'm putting this President's motion to a vote. [[12:33:30]] For-88 The decision is not taken. And the president's remarks, the proposals for chapter two, the final position. He suggests putting it in the final position in a new edition. I'm putting this President's motion to a vote. [[12:34:02]] For-80 Please, by the factions, you can see it in the hall. Communists – 0, "Regions of Ukraine" – 7, National Party – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 28, Block Timoshenko – 4, Socialist Party – 2, Ukrainian People's Party – 19, "Forward, Ukraine!" – 0, Social Democrats – 0, Reforms and Order – 5, One Ukraine – 0, Party of Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 12, NDP, Hard Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 3. [[United]] I now put to the vote the proposal of the President's veto committee to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. Registration number 5439. Please vote. [[12:35:12]] For 272 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communists 56, the Ukrainian People's Party 46, the People's Party 29, Our Ukraine 3, Block Timoshenko 32, Socialists 24, Ukrainian People's Party 0, Forward Ukraine! – 20, Social Democrats 19, Reforms and Order – 0, One Ukraine – 7, SPT – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, NDP and Hard Ukraine – 9, non-fractional – 13. [[United]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to return to the vote, please vote. [[12:36:12]] For 247 We're back. I am voting on the proposal of a professional committee to overcome the veto on the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Registration number 5439. Please vote. [[12:36:50]] For 280 The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Now, dear fellows. There is a proposal to agree, the committee proposes to accept the President's proposals and to adopt legislation in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. I'm putting this motion to a vote. [[12:37:27]] For 253 The law was passed in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. Please, Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, with the results of the vote, I would like to address you. First of all, I'd like to thank the whole faction, all the deputies, all together, and everyone personally for supporting their parents. I mean the factions that supported this document by voting. At the same time, I would like once again to draw attention to the position of some political forces and factions that take place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the field, they cried out about what they felt for the average Ukrainian, for their parents. Today, they have no firm support for making decisions in behalf of their parents. The first is the faction of our Ukraine, which today did not support the veto vote on this issue. I ask you very much, Adam Ivanovich, that the results of the veto vote be published in the Voice of Ukraine newspaper so that every voter, before the vote, knows who and how the interests stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u99	Please, from "Majdan" Boris Bespali, mention the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, thank you "Majdan", which, now both the authorities and the opposition have the normal ability to express their position. Thank you to the MPs for, after all, showing consideration, understanding and adopting the Law in a new edition. This means that people are not promised pensions, as the previous speaker promised them. Of course, you can promise and assign each one a million dollars each, but where can you get the money? The government and the authorities should think about this. And the opposition, of course, offers another. And we voted on the very right new edition, where there's going to be a rise in social standards, a rise in pensions, but it's going to be made with real money as much as it goes into the budget. I mean, we're really, realistically new authorities and President Yushchenk's team is increasing pensions, not talking about pensions and not promising pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the section "In summary procedure". The Committee on Science and Education requests that there be a change of venues for consideration of laws under the headings 8248 and 7210. Both laws belong to the knowledge of the committee, signed by Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. So if you don't mind, we're going to look at Bill 7248 first, and 7,210 will look where it is in the agenda. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation and Technology Parks on Subsidy is under consideration. Registration number 7248. Reported by Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, prepare for Rodionov. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The Law, which is presented as one of the most important laws in Ukraine that apply to innovative activities in Ukraine. It is a matter of fatigue that Technoparks are the most important organization of innovation worldwide. By 2005, the innovation of technology parks had been halted. Now we're putting a law that is consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers, the previous Cabinet of Ministers, and it's up to you. Let me get right to the law. Termines. The law refers to the establishment of a “B”-type technology park in a dream contract on the joint operation of a group of legal persons without the creation of a legal person with the aim of creating organisational and other principles for the provision of technology. The Technopark and the legal entity are members of the Technopark, on which the current management of the Technopark is contractually placed. The technology park has a special mode in implementing its projects. Project Tech Park. The project for each individual Technopark is developed in accordance with the laws on the priority directions of science and technology, and the priorities of innovation in Ukraine. The study, expertise and national registration of the Technopark project is carried out by the Ministry of Education and Science at the National Academy of Sciences. The project, which was conducted by the Ministry of Education and Science, is included in the State Register of Technopark Projects, gives him a certificate of special design. The certificate is issued for a period of up to five years and is the basis for the introduction of a special regime of activity and the opening of special accounts. The preference for the activities of Technoparks. Three preferences: (1) financial support; (2) targeted subsidy; (3) depreciation deductions. 1. Financial support. A state support program for Technoparks is being created. Under the State Support Programme for Technology Parks, the State Budget provides funding to support technology projects aimed at full or partial interest-free lending of the project, full or partial interest compensation and provision of State guarantees to commercial banks. Financial support is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, targeted subsidies are being developed on the basis of income taxes and taxes on added value for products produced and, in addition, the project is being released from customs congregations and VAT on imports of raw materials, materials, and equipment. In addition, accelerated depreciation of the project’s technology park is allowed. Control and responsibility for the implementation of the technology project rests on the commission which.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u104	Control and responsibility for the implementation of the project is based on the commission created by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which also reviews the activities of other innovation structures. The position of the commission is confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the event of a breach by the perpetrator, the Ministry of Education and Science applies to the court for the cancellation of the registration of the project technology park. In doing so, the author of the project has to pay 120% of the National Bank of Ukraine's taxes and pennies. We ask you to accept this project in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u105	Yes, have a seat, please. From the Committee of the Head of the Scientific Subcommittee of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u106	Rodionov, the Communist faction. The distinguished people's deputies are about to amend the existing bill on special investment and innovation activities in technology parks. I want to say that the country was in an amazing position under the color of orange flags at the beginning of the year, and we lost any preference at all. Contrary to the experience of the developed and underdeveloped countries. And technology parks like innovative structures have turned out to be the same dancer: you want to do what they say, you don't want to do it. What does this policy lead to or lead to? It can, without any laws amending duties or withdrawing any duties from Ukraine, be deprived of scientific products at all. And that's how it's done. Ukraine cannot produce science-intensive products in competition with monsters such as the European Union, the United States and others. They'll always prove that your product is more expensive. What do you need to make this product anyway? That's the first one. Second. Today, much has been said about Ukraine’s self - humiliation. She's asking someone for supplies, so she's missing out on who she wants, who she's missing. In this regard, a saying came to my mind. I don't know who said it, maybe someone does. She sounds like that. Every nation is not its own size. That is, it is not large in size, it is not large in size, nor is it determined by the greatness of man’s growth. The great nation is determined by the knowledge that this nation can produce. Therefore, the Committee, when it has taken a decision and the Committee's decision to support the bill, i.e. to return to that experience, does not, as they say, allow us to cease to be already producing scientific products by the nation or by the State at all. The Committee proposes support. And to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council, in another reading, they're working on it, and so that we'll still be a decent place in the world. As for these proposals, they are generally accepted, which exist in other States. We're the only ones who want to get back from the mistakes we've made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u107	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Yeah, well, let me give the landowner a word, he had the Jubilee, from the Committee on Budget Affairs -- Kirilchuku, especially, it's really, budgetaryly, or budgetaryly, specifically, the Law. Please, Eugene Ivanovich. Kirilchuca microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Indeed, Adam Ivanovich assigned me to speak on this matter by the Committee on Budget Questions. First of all, I want to state that this bill, if it's even adopted in a second reading, can't come in from January 1st next year. It can only come in from January 1, 2007. This is what the Budget Code requires. Secondly, the separate technology parks that we've created have really been a positive result in general for the science and economy of Ukraine. But there is no responsibility for those who make these factories, for a good half of them are designed just to clean up part of the budget. Because of this, it seems to me that alongside their creation, with the approval of their program, it should be written below: technology park organizers are criminally liable to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u109	Yes, dear colleagues, 12 minutes to discuss, for those who have signed up insist, indeed, on a sinister issue. Yuri Carmazin, followed by Yuri Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u110	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see that in accordance with the Law, we have adopted amendments to the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. What you're talking about. In accordance with the budget code, however, it is not possible. Come on, let's keep driving, let's watch the competition destroy the flags, the European flags in Kiev, the Aviant factory, the ANT Antonova plant, come on, this. It's only an intellectual investment that could be worth $800 billion, and that's all in Ukraine! AN-148 for 5 years in front of all of Europe, and you're asking all the time for Europe, asking and no one wants to see you there. And we're ahead of Europe for five years! So I am grateful to Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky for breaking through and showing you: this is the way to Europe ahead of Europe. That's what he's offering. And those changes that you're talking about in the State Budget that were adopted by the past government during the time. They have no relation to the orange, beautiful, pure color and the ideals of the revolution, they have nothing to do with it. That's what I'm telling my Communist colleagues who want to say they have a bearing. Well, dear friends, I think. That there's not going to be any losses to the state budget and the biggest losses when you're being brought here. It's all machine manufacturing. It's all moving in. Show me what you're doing today. There's nothing we can do. So let's adopt a normal law, let's face it, that the changes made in article 103, paragraph 13, of the State Budget Act were more loyal to the 2005 State Budget Act, as proposed by Yulia Timoshenko, which undermined the foundations of Ukrainian science. When we admit it, then articles 1, 3, 5, 8, 4, 6, which were deleted, just need to renew their action, Igor Rafailovich, because they are illegally excluded and also without any justification. This is why the State Budget Act cannot invalidate other acts of other laws. It's not written anywhere that it's a priority law. All the laws we have are equal, except for the Constitution. It has the highest legal power. And so, for the adoption of the law, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, I am in favour of adopting and operating such a technology park. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u111	Yes, Yuri Salamatin, Communist faction. I can't see. Then there's Mikola Shershun, a faction of the People's Party. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u112	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian People’s Party Given the very small amount of innovation. produce in terms of domestic exports we have good reason to talk about creeping Ukraine into underdeveloped countries. That's a fact. The solution to this shameful situation can be the creation of a national innovation system, which requires legal regulation of the field of scientific research, technological development, the production of innovation and its implementation as a whole. Realistically ensure the operation of Technoparks, i.e. scientific and manufacturing complexes, are able to boost the investment attractiveness of our economy, and hence, its growth will obviously be able to define the logic of civilised social development in Ukraine by opening it up to a breakthrough in the future with a highly developed economy and appropriate living standards. Draft Law No. 7248 proposes to define a fully transparent and technologically accepted mechanism for subsidizing the technology park project and its source of funding. It also proposes a completely realistic algorithm for the approval of the nomenclature and the import volumes of raw materials, equipment, kits, and other items for the purpose of implementing technology park projects. The People's Party faction stresses the need to adopt this bill, which will allow for a more favourable climate in the state for innovative projects. But here it should be noted and warned that after its adoption in preparation for the new fiscal year, there was no need to abolish this money, such as the Law on Special Innovation in Technological Parks, whose series of articles on tax exemptions, including the exemption from import duties and the added cost of determining groups of export goods and raw materials that have come to the development of technological parks, were deleted by the current budget law. In general, I would like to emphasise that creating attractive financial conditions for innovative activities in the entrepreneurial sector is, if you speak figuratively, this magic stick that the ashtray country can turn into a queen country. And that's why Ukraine has no right to use such a powerful scientific and technological potential not to take advantage of these advantages with a view to putting in place effective mechanisms to support innovation to raise the well-being of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u113	And thank you for the lyric support of the law. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Behind him is Mikola Porowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u114	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The main crisis in Ukraine is the investment crisis. We're talking about a lot of crises, but I think we should put a bold accent. The main crisis in Ukraine is the investment crisis, without which there can be no growth in prosperity, an active, effective, social policy in the near future, an impossible entry into European and world economic and political structures. The main link between economic policy and this should be the creation of a favourable investment climate. And they're right comrades. I stress that the main crisis in Ukraine is the investment crisis, the main link of economic policy is the creation of a favourable investment climate. And this should be the focus of the government, the President's Parliament. In adopting the changes to the budget for the current year, governments and parliament made mistakes, nonsense, and crime by eliminating preference for technology parks. Today we have a chance to correct this mistake. What does the bill propose? Three types of preferences are proposed: the first, the state-owned program to support the parks, the Cabinet's decision, the state program, the target method, you have to stick a needle into the place where this shot is the most effective, it's needle-cuttering, I'd say. The second preference is the exemption of technoparks from income tax and value added tax and from the import of equipment. And the third is accelerated depreciation. In fact, the world’s experience shows that countries that have taken the lead, such as Japan in their time, the United States, Italy, have made practical efforts to do so. This is a global experience. And we can't ignore it. Of course, we should consider our specificities, our characteristics, but we should respect our own economic thinking and take into account world experience. There's a myth that tech parks are holes in the budget. On the contrary, tech parks are not budget holes, they're economic growth points. Technology parks are not budget-gathering structures, they're budget-filled because they create new jobs, they're going to make new profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u115	You're going the right way. Porovsky Mikola, please, is non-fractional, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u116	Mikola Porovski, Republic Christian Party Honorary colleagues are MPs, the proposed law on a special regime for the innovation of technology parks is perhaps the only acceptable, only possible mechanism for real state support for new technologies. Working on the State Energy Savings Committee and implementing the State Energy Development Programme, I've been dealing with the biggest development problem in my practical work. In large part, state-funded energy-saving technologies could not find their introduction due to the lack of clear mechanisms in the current legislation to support the implementation of scientific developments. And what was passed was the law on innovation parks he usually gave impetus, but there was no clear mechanism in the past law. I'm going to point out that the Law on Taxation of the Income of Enterprises doesn't provide State Support for Innovation Technologies, the Energy Savings Act chapter 13 on State Support has deleted and, thus, the scientific institutions of Ukraine, the most advanced technological developments today do not have state support, which has been declared as a whole of a number of laws, because there is no clear mechanism. So the Law on Special Innovation of Technology Parks will allow, first of all, the introduction into the customs territory of Ukraine of technological equipment that is not produced in Ukraine, because the current legislation provides 20 per cent of VAT when imported into the customs territory of such equipment. Such equipment has not yet been made, as they say, by one of the bracelets, and it has to be paid for. And this is today the biggest obstacle to the creation of advanced technologies and new production in Ukraine. At the same time, the proposed law contains a clear mechanism of control, government control of preferences and benefits for such objects, the conclusion of a professional ministry of science and education, the introduction of a bill in the Cabinet of Ministers, it is approved, and only then will there be State preferences. I believe that this law is progressive, extremely necessary for the Ukrainian economy, and I ask you, honourable Members, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u117	Question completed. Let's be clear. Let's look at the bill in the first reading, and I would like to emphasize and draw the attention of the committee of profile to the comments of the Committee of Budgets, which rightly say that since the adoption this law can't work, because here is the budget spending, at least from the first of January next year. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks is put to the vote. [[on subsidisation]] Registration number 7248. [[13:03:49]] For 221 Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[13:04:14]] For 244 Copy that. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. Registration number 7248. [[13:04:44]] For 234 The bill was adopted in the first reading. There is one more question, about education, so we can finish: the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Education. [[on the creation of appropriate teaching conditions for children]] Registration number 7210. As reported by Bauer Mikhailo Josefovich. I can't see. The profile committee is the Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich. Kafarski where? Then, please, from the Committee of the Rodions. Three minutes, and we'll be clear, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u118	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Ukraine has a fairly good legal framework in the field of education. You must have been yourself in other countries, you know, especially the CIS, that we might be the only ones who have education laws, secondary education, preschool education, higher education, that is, a complete set. But time goes by, and it is said that the laws that we passed before naturally require details and some clarifications. This draft of Law 7210 amends or refines almost 8 bills, including all those listed, as well as the draft Budget Code, on military duty and others. Which comes out of the necessary conditions, in my view, which should be taken into account. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education suggests that it be accepted in the first reading in order to further develop the second reading. I think there'll be quite a lot of comments and they'll probably be right. But of the main positions that are taken, for example, we propose in article 57, paragraph 1, to add to the words in line with current legislation, to add: “Pensions to pedagogical workers are assigned 80 per cent of the salary of a pedagogical worker, which is determined in accordance with articles 65 and 66 of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act.” It is also proposed in the Law on preschool education, it is further recorded that all have the right to preschool education, but that the State ensures that preschool education is provided to children of 5-6 years old in preschool institutions, which includes proper preparation for systematic schooling. A very important addition is part of the first article 37, all educational institutions regarding material and technical security. It now sounds like: “The land of a preschool institution cannot be removed, sold, privatized, transferred, established. It is passed on by the State to a preschool institution or to the permanent use of a treaty accordingly. The right of ownership to land passes from the moment of notation.” I'll say there are many others.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Bauer Mikhailo Josefovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. Your point is to propose a bill to amend some legislation. In particular, changes are being made to laws such as education, general secondary education, vocational and technical education, public service and military service, physical culture and sport, local self-government, and the Ukrainian Budget Code. What is involved in these changes? Changes are primarily related to changes in society that are taking place today. I think that very important changes are related to the law on general secondary education. In particular, with regard to the reorganization and elimination of public schools. You probably know that right now, where the total reduction in public education schools is going to close them down without the consent of the village community. And this law regulates the norm. In addition, article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine is amended. In particular, this applies to science and culture, which is covered by article 57. There are positive conclusions from the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee on Science and Education made a decision and recommended that the first reading should be considered and taken as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u121	Thank you, sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Who among those who have signed up insists? Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! The proposed amendments to the Education Act, on pre-school and general secondary education, were listed, and unfortunately, I have a mixed assessment. On the one hand, there is, of course, a need to protect the mass closure of schools, pre-school institutions and non-school institutions. And it is right in these amendments that such issues should be brought to the discussion of the population by organizing, organizing a meeting of the inhabitants of these settlements or even holding local referendums. Of course it's necessary, it's necessary. It is also desirable, through the law, to maintain a 80 per cent pension rate for pedagogical workers. We know how difficult the financial situation is today for people in this area, especially those living in rural areas. Of course, it is essential to introduce into law and rule prohibiting the suspension of article 57 by any other legal act or law. To our shame, article 57 had been restricted on several occasions in the budget law, sometimes stopped, sometimes not fully funded. I think this situation needs to be corrected. I also support the amendment of article 9 of the Pre-school Education Act, which introduces State guarantees for pre-school education for children. But the question is, why is age 5-6 years? Preschool education was children and a nursery group, they were children and a sadistic group. Today we know that wages are very low. Today, the father of the family cannot get as much as it takes to keep the whole family together. And women who have young children are forced to work and leave their children at home or in their neighbors, somehow. I believe that this rule needs to be revised, of course, at least to reduce it to three years. Such guarantees must, of course, be given to young mothers by the State. I am encouraged by the amendments to article 7 of the General and Secondary Education Act. It must be said that certain parts of this article, which speak of the language of schooling, contradict each other. We need to take a close look at this article. I believe that when considering second reading, it needs to be worked out very seriously. Because there are provisions here that can clearly lead to discrimination on a language basis. It is claimed, for example, that in places where Russians and representatives of other national minorities live compactly, the language of learning is determined according to the choice of parents. What, though, is compact living? The following part refers to the dispersion of the Russian population and so on. There are no specific definitions of these concepts and, therefore, it is possible for parents to refuse to teach their children in the language in which parents would like to teach them. And the last. There is also a rule in article 17 of the Secondary Education Act, which introduces such strange concepts in general. It says that the educational process is based on the following: the enrichment of the young generation with the spiritual acquisitions of the Ukrainian people. It's international.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, in a minute, Hinzburg, Proscuratova. Recorded, written. Hinzburg microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u124	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I don't know at all if we're looking at this law from that point of view, does our school and our teachers need it? So we definitely have to say that we need him. Can any of the deputies today deny that schools should not be closed? Yes, it says here: The law of Ukraine and the changes in education do not have to be closed to school. Then it says, pensions for teachers to assign 80 percent. Why doesn't our teachers need such a pension? They should be given such a pension because they receive a modest salary. Children in rural areas, where there are no kindergartens, are again assigned to rent their homes without pay. Who may object to the school’s provision of kindergartens and free of charge? No one can deny it. Who else can say against this law, which says that money should not be taken from their parents if they do not have it, because free education is guaranteed. And it's all written in this law. So I think that this concept that's set out in this law needs to be supported. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Yes, please, Proscoturava, Shibko. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u126	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. We believe that the adoption of this bill will allow for a degree of unification of the state's policies in the field of education and will contribute to the improvement of the education system. And we share that position that when a child is admitted to the first grade, if it is a non-specialized school, it is not allowed to undergo introductory tests, tests, tests, and tests of their knowledge from individual subjects. It's not a moat. And every child has the right to receive education in our country, although we also share the position of increasing the pension of health workers to 80 percent. Although the project proposes the establishment of compulsory education funds to provide material assistance to students in public schools, they are being healed. And this, but this is contrary to article 13 of the Code of Budgets, because the establishment of a local self - government body outside the funds of government authorities. Of course, this is not allowed, although raised, to hold the bill in the first reading we read.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u127	Yes, thank you. Vitaly's buggy. Hare John later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u128	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party. I want to support here what my colleague Rodionov said, that as long as we don't create laws, we're going to be forced to make more and more improvements. I want to draw attention to the very subject of closing schools. ‘ I think that many of our colleagues have encountered this situation when you go to the village, and there the local authorities and, including district administrations think that all of this is probably unpredictability, there are little children learning, there is something going on in the same class 4 or 5 and they start shutting down that school on their own. So here's what if, for example, you take a case. The Dnipropetrov district, so it was generally done where there was a school, the local council, and the schools closed themselves, referring to the bus running there and taking the children to another village. So our faction fully supports all these changes and we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u129	John the Rabbit's microphone, please, then Carmazin wants to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u130	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I want to say the same thing in support of those positions that put obstacles before closing schools, because closing down a school in a village is the loss of a village. That's what all of us know. What is more, when big roadblocks, especially when schools are not provided by buses and there will be many and many problems, so schools should not be closed. The second is the language of learning. I don't think our legislation has such terms as choice of language of learning as parents want. We have a Constitution that says that the national language is Ukrainian and we have legislation that regulates the use of languages of national minorities. We have experienced this practice in Soviet times, when parents chose language to teach and, as a result, received the complete deukrunization of Ukrainian society. That's why we need to step up this article to the point where we use the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u131	Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich was written first, so he requires three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at changes to very serious laws on education, on general secondary education, on vocational and technical education. This is our future, what we're looking at, and the changes that we're going to make. In particular, it's suggested that scientists, cultures, representatives of other spheres of activity, who are involved in educational work, and that it should also be written that those who run circles, sports with these children, are also those who raise these children of ours to be compared to teachers. Unless it's easier for the state to raise people, not take up the leisure time of teenagers, and then keep 220,000 in prisons where they don't learn anything good, where the TB and AIDS epidemic is going today. Is that more convenient? And I think that the changes that are being proposed, including those for teachers' pensions, where 80 percent of them are the right changes. Another question is that if we don't suspend this rule by other legislative acts, we can't stop it. I'm sorry. We have seen this before when the State Budget Act is more than anything. And this law that is now being passed, this old government that we've adopted, unfortunately, has the same flaws that stop the operation of normal laws. So I would like to uphold this law. But not without reservation. Why Not Unreservedly? I don't understand why the Law on Physical Culture and Sport removes situations in which lessons from physical culture are required at least three times a week. What do we want to do to raise a sick nation? This is unacceptable, Your Honor. I don't think we need to speculate on language issues. Today, we have political parties making cheap pyars, such as the protection of Russian in Crimea. I find it funny to hear how to protect the Ukrainian language in Crimea and who interferes with it or in Odessa. No one's bothering them. It's okay, thank God. It seems to me that what is written here, in article seven, in places of compact residence of Russians and representatives of other national minorities, the language of learning is determined according to the choice of parents. It's very well written. Very good. That's right. And this will deprive everyone who can't think of anything but speculation on a language issue that doesn't exist at least for the Party of Protectors of Homeland. And the fact that learning a national language is mandatory is absolutely a norm, a constitutional norm that should be written down. So, dear friends, I think there are problems in this law. There are problems because there are no problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u133	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. No, no, it's probably not the technology that's wrong as opposed to us. Respectful colleagues discussed a rather interesting and necessary law. Although, I recall, we recently accepted something similar, some kind of Education Act in the second reading. Well, you're not gonna spoil the mess, as they say. Let us vote in favour of this bill on the basis of the first reading. Bill No. 7210 on amending some Ukrainian legislation on education to create the right conditions for teaching children. Vote. [[13:23:32]] For 279 Thank you. The law was adopted in the first reading. Here I was approached by representatives of the Committee on Budgets who asked me to remind them that when preparing for the second reading, we should look at the deadlines for its entry into force, because there are substantial financial costs. There's another break coming up, isn't there? Yes, who will perform? Two factions requesting recesses, two factions requesting recesses. Honorable colleagues, honourable ones, don't shout. Two factions ask for breaks to consult. But if they've already consulted and they want to make a statement, we'll be fine for 30 minutes. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u134	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Yesterday, an unprecedented incident occurred in Ukraine, which could actually mean one thing: the authorities had determined that time had gone by in Ukraine to suppress democratic processes and suppress freedom of speech. Decisions of authority are final and are not subject to accusation. By its ruling of 4 October, the Supreme Court overturned the contested National Television Council, the broadcast of Ukraine's Supreme Economic Court ruling, the decision of the Court of First Instance and the ruling of the Court of Appeal in cases on the frequency of the TV channel "NTN". The power of the Law, not the Law itself, has been demonstrated again to all Ukraine, and in front of all those who have not yet understood it. The case on the frequency of the NTN channel has been brought back to the court of the first instance. It's an unprecedented case. His timeliness for authority is beyond doubt. Before the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All those who have not volunteered to glorify the only just political power in Ukraine who dare to be objective, unbiased must be eliminated. Nor did the number of cases won by the NTN channel in all institutions, nor did common sense prove to be an argument in order to end the infamous persecution of the television channel. The whole of Ukraine and the Parliamentary Hall directly witnessed an uncompromising struggle against the NTN channel after the orange revolution. At that time, the issue of the pressure of the courts was particularly pressing. It's still a topical issue today. So yesterday's ruling of the court came with the spreading of information about blood interest in such a decision as to be an impotent policy, as if taken away from the body of the President, but by such a native godfather as Mr. Dustenk. The President of the Chamber of Economic Affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, direct supervisor of the Nacrad vs NTN case, Judge Shitsky Ivan Bogdanovic. He was the one who called for the right decision, and it was he who personally informed Dusty of the fulfillment of his request. Given that the numerous actions of the highly esteemed Mr. Prashenko are being tested for corruption today, we appeal to the Attorney General’s Office to carry out a fact check. The deputy faction refers to all factions and MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to defend freedom of speech. Convinced that no one in this room can leave, leave the NTN channel to serve someone’s interests. NTN news is, in fact, a balanced supply of information. Now, unfortunately, you can safely say that the channel can become dependent on the position of power. Unfortunately, the National Broadcasting and Radio Council of Ukraine, which is doing everything possible, including through court cases, to secure television frequencies under the rule. We need to hear a report from the head of Nakrad and TV, the radio talk of Shevchenk the elder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u135	Yes, thank you. Indeed, dear colleagues, we are constantly confronted with similar facts. I wish they weren't here. What's more, it's probably more than one of the channels that matches the name. Probably a lot of us don't know why it's called that, I'm deciphering it, because I've also recently wondered what that channel is. It turns out it's uninvolved television news and it really is. Yeah, let's get to the point of the draft regulation, I'm going to continue the 15-minute session, because we haven't talked much about laws today. Draft Decree on the Concept of Ukraine's Transition to Constant Development. Registration number 5749. Reported by Landik Valentin Ivanovich. Please, five minutes. Get Rudenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, the distinguished are present in the hall! Surprisingly, despite the particular severity of the problems faced by Ukraine at the end of the twentieth century, the practice of adopting economic, social, technological, and environmental solutions without necessarily tying them into a single system based on a forward-looking and balanced national strategy continues. The forward-looking strategic goals will allow a clear assessment of the resources available to achieve them from a future perspective and take a look at the present, set guidelines and priorities for future programme projects, and formulate further steps. Ukraine’s national sustainable development strategy is needed to see the country’s long-term perspective, which makes political forces, societies, public authorities and local self - government meaningful. But the 14 governments that came to power protected the program and then criticized each other, and the programs did not report and were not implemented. Today's revitalization of social and public efforts towards an adequate development strategy for Ukraine for the next 10 to 15 years has enabled not only the pooling of available resources to overcome the systemic crisis but also the process of reform of a meaningful and predictable nature. A sustainable development strategy is a rejection of a catching-up development model, which is driven by an economic cycle, which is an opportunity to overcome the backlog of the developed world and to ensure the quality of life of its people in the leading countries. In this way, Ukraine's strategic goal in the coming years should be to build a permanent society, whose main priority is human development, and the main means of ensuring the growth of the economy under the principles of sustainable development. The first step on this path should be to develop and adopt a national strategy for sustainable development. The concept is based on a whole system of interdependent strategic goals that stem from the need to ensure the development of the Ukrainian State and society, both today and in the long term. These goals are equally important. The following sequence of concepts does not mean rigid hierarchy, but is based on the internal logic of the document. Goal one. Social justice and human development. The goal of the friend. Education and information. Target three. National health and population. Goal four. Economic prosperity. Goal five. A healthy environment and conservation of nature. Target six. A responsible administration. And goal seven. Permanent local communities and the steady development of settlements. And the eighth target. International responsibility. Dear colleagues! In the absence of time, I really couldn't stop for every goal more deeply, because in the concept presented to you, and you have a detailed description of the goal, the existing problems, the priorities, the first steps and the indicators. I even want to give an example. You know, I don't want to criticize, there was a government program before, and then the president says, "I'm putting a five, and at the new ball, 12." But you don't have to put a five or you don't have to put a twelve. There are special indicators that are offered here, which are offered in the world, and there is a state of life indicator, and it determines what kind of assessment is given to the government. There can't be another one and you can't put it on. There are criteria, and these criteria need to be met. I would really like to bring one of the goals here, because we're saying that this program is so, it's more related to. No, I'm just going to give you priority tasks for the fourth economic prosperity. First, by 2015, the steady growth rate of real GDP by 10 to 12 percent, the increase in labour productivity by 10 to 15 percent, the increase in the arms fund twice as of 2003, the increase in population income by 10 times compared to 2003. So, dear colleagues, I understand perfectly, I understand perfectly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u137	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u138	But I have a full responsibility because I worked in the government because I'm in a group of zeros, where today's products are being released for four billion dollars, we accepted. And when production is falling today, production is falling completely, we have a 40 - percent increase! We have an increase in productivity by 25 percent, we have an increase in wages by 20 percent. All of this is being done. So I'm asking you, my dear colleagues, to accept this program in the first reading, what the committee is proposing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u139	Thank you. So maybe Valentin Ivanovich, you'd better be Prime Minister to do it than the program? I really don't understand why the Ecology Committee is in charge here. Well, it's defined, it's defined. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u140	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Because this committee and John the Rabbit are constantly engaged in the problems of continuous development. There is no other committee like ours. Ladies and gentlemen, what is steady development? A steady development is such that it meets the needs of today and does not interfere with the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It is not just a new saving relationship between man and nature; it is a new ideology of governance when social, economic, and environmental imperatives are united into a single system. Today the whole world is going this way, and Ukraine is unfortunately lagging behind. I can honestly tell you that if we don't accept this concept today, many more grand will be eaten by many of our scientists, our politicians, and "the cart will be standing there now" where it stands. So the committee suggests that we take this concept as a basis and work together. What are the ways in which this concept is worked out? In our view, the text of the concept should be more specific and exposed to such basic activities. In the field of industrial politics. The development of sectors and technologies related to the use of renewable resources, the development of food industries, and the processing of agricultural products at regional level. In the agro-industrial sphere. Improving the land use system, protecting land resources and improving the quality of land in the context of progressive proofing and supporting the relationship between ore-based and forested areas and scientifically sound standards for each landscape-climate zone, preventing ore land expansion. Support for organic agriculture in the context of significant export possibilities for organic farming. So, honourable national MPs, I think we should accept this concept. I think we should encourage the work of the commission created by the President, many presidents had this commission, but this commission did not actually work for any president. Now I've sent letters to President Yushchenk to make this commission work harder and to keep us from falling out of global and European development. Today Europe has gone so far as to talk about the green economy today, when taxation shifts from taxation of labour to taxation of natural resources, because each one of you knows that today the economy is no longer just based on natural resources. It was the 19th - 20th century economy. Today's economy is the economy of knowledge economy, when people work in information networks, when they use super-new technologies, when they use new knowledge. So I think let's take this concept as a base, and then work on it in a way that this document will bring about changes not only in the tax system, but in government administration, but also in education, in human and nature relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u141	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Yes, two for, two for against. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, Our Ukraine. Get Olga Hinzburg ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's entirely fair for the chairman today to say that it's not clear why the Committee on Environmental Affairs is reporting. What are we talking about? I thank your honorary colleague Landik for working on this document, a very serious document. But I would like to remind you, have we fulfilled with you, the Ukrainian national MPs, in a bunch with the President, in a bunch with the government, have we met the requirement of article five, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the Supreme Council of Ukraine determines the principles of Ukraine's internal and external policies? They're not done. And that's why we're building what we don't know how to build. That's why, when I took this document, he said, "The Supreme Council's decree on the concept of Ukraine's transition to sustainable development." There are still challenges: to endorse the concept of Ukraine's transition to sustainable development, to consider the concept as the basis for: the development of a national strategy, i.e. a national programme. And government programs are designed by who? The government. On what basis? Based on the discussion of society, based on referendums. Well, who thought we were up against what would be Bankov Street. And not only were they blocking the road but they also dug the road, and there they planted the bench, and near the world - famous monument of Grodecki, they placed the doghouse where the guards had been planted. Kyiv's architecture was completely corrupted. So, what, we've moved on to a steady development in the last few months, haven't we? Hence, respectable friends evidently need to discuss such matters. And I think that the moment that we're talking about here, at least, should come out of the fact that in the form of a document itself, it's not brilliant. In uniform, in legal form. In fact, it's done right. If we don't move these questions, wait for another government to give them to us, they won't move. As a lawyer before the day of the jurist, I say that it's the right science and expertise to write that the adoption of which is not in line with the current legislation, that is, they're proposing a decision to reject, but as a politician, as the head of the Party of Fatherland Defenders, as a person who wants to live in another country, not worse than France, which has already been completely settled there by Turks, Arabs and everyone else, but in a normal Ukraine. I mean, I'm going to vote in favour of this concept. In the first reading, we'll complete it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u143	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Nadrava gives the word to Ratushnyak, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u144	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist Party faction 161 constituency. I'm talking to you here, maybe someone didn't understand what we're talking about, we're talking about a program where we're all taking it for the same reason that we're all living in the same world. All the countries were equal, all the people were equal, they were equally divided, they were equally happy. This program is used to ensure that all of us are equally happy and use our land evenly for every human being. I'm talking to the people who are here, they do understand that. That's 7 targets. And the seventh objective on page 47 is: equal increase in local self-governance, for example. And you remember those times, our Soviet times, which I always talk about respectfully when one of the directors of factories or local government officials failed to implement the investment plan. And then who would call them, and who would ask for it. And I have a question right now, who's going to ask for this page today, and for this investment from someone who's not going to do it, that's the question? Who, the government, the president, parliament, or just someone else, didn't find the answer to who asked. And I'm still looking again, and I'm looking at what we're talking about. See, the main strategic inexhaustible source of human development at the present stage is man himself, his intelligence, and his creative potential. New approaches require new indicators that reflect the quality of development. This indicator is a human development index that takes into account life expectancy, population literacy, education coverage and access to education, real GDP per capita. Still, what we read is that Ukraine was first included in the World Report in 1993 and placed 45 seats among all countries on all of these indicators. And in 1995, she took 54 seats. In 1996, the 80th, in 1997, the 95th, in 1998 102th place. Read on, and in 1999, 91st place, and we think we're better off living, no. Because they keep writing, a few countries haven't shown up, they've been erased from this status, and we've come first. And when we look at this question again, I want to turn to you again, one problem. And the biggest problem with using or executing this program is the existing problem. Ukraine’s biggest problem in this area is one of the lowest standards of living in Europe. About 90 percent of the population is outside the poverty line. Can we do this program? If we can tell which government, which government. I think that at this point and in this power, at this point, no. But you have to be equal to it, it's like a star, like a "Zurvy" dream, and that's how we have this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u145	Sergey Ratushnyak, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u146	Thank you for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to what distinguishes all states of the world from one another, the justice and sociality of the state is how the total national product and resources of the state are distributed per capita. We want to do it, we're chasing shapes. You can be as sultan to Brunei, where he owns the entire state, all the resources. But from the point of view and meaning of the distribution of resources per capita, he may be envied by the whole world. That's why we fight for distribution socially. Fair enough, isn't it? Or again for the form of justice. I wanted to point out one thing that we want to accept is what the committee is giving. We'll have something from the government. And there's the president, by the way. Someone's forgotten, but there's a president. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: there were slogans of the field, which, by the way, have not yet been formalized legally into the concept of state development. The President has not yet given it. We were offered tables that were designed to degrade Yanukovich’s achievements, drive-bys for wages, halls, Greeks, sugars, and so forth. Remember. So now I want to say to Victor Andryovich, your honor, between 18 and 43 percent of these figures are worse than Janukovic's for August of last year. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have no concept of state development, of external economic priorities, of economic priorities. The president has to give them to him. We do have a presidential-parliamentary form of power. And if we accept the concepts of the constant development of the committee, the government, and then the president, it's going to be a swan, cancer and a hammer. I'm just urging you to listen and call on the President to perform his duties. From the slogans of the field, which has not yet been completed, to give the concept of the development of this state. We're going to have to adjust it. And not accept three parallel documents. Because it turns out that we're going to do, not separate personalities, but disunity. It's not the bees in the head, it's the bees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u147	Alexander Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u148	I'll stand up against it. Honorable MPs, voters, radio listeners. In fact, for 15 years now, Ukraine has been under steady development, and it has been developing. But what have we achieved? As one man said, I can't see right now, but he said, "We have what we have." What about us? I can drop the reproach because he was a co-reporter, John Alexanderovich the Rabbit, over the past 15 years, he says he's been taking care of the state and the economy of Ukraine. What have we achieved? The hare was planted on the Grinjoles and everything. We have achieved nothing more in our country. And I really like that expression that ex-President Kravchuk said, which says it's made so visible that "they're looking like bees in the street and they're not wearing honey." I would just like him to admit that the honey that in the Soviet Street in Soviet times was "applied" by the Soviet people, ate the main part of Kravczuk, ate Kuchma and ate with his company Yushchenko. And there's something new that we can't bring to that "wolve" that's already become self-sustaining. The materials actually say 90 percent off the poverty line, and that's only one percent of the Danish we have an average wage. So on this base, we can provide some kind of steady development? Never. What, we're going to have free medicine? What, we're going to have free education, as the Constitution says? We will not, because everything is already being looted, everything is "privatized" and, as the practice has shown, no one is rich enough to help the poor. Where, name at least one example of where it was. We saw today, looking at the President's Veto Act, where it was imposed on retired members of the military, we saw how the President cared about it, and we saw how the deputies of their Ukraine took care of it, how they overcame the veto. These are living examples of the fact that there is nothing we can do to ensure the steady development of our country and our system. I would like to point out once again: without changing the political system, no constant development of Ukraine, which is there, even though it's not defined, what time is there, whether it's 5, or it's 10, or it's 15, or it's 50 years old, there's nothing to talk about. We've seen this in 15 years. The Communist faction will not vote for such a concept.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u149	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Those who have signed up insist for a minute on motive. School, please follow him Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u150	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out that the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, stresses that the idea of the bill itself is successful and worthy of support. It's just that the bill itself is structurally inconclusive. It's written on the basis of the Supreme Council's ruling, the explanatory note, and in principle, it doesn't explain very well what the concept of continuous development is. And that's why I think it would be logical, of course, to send for further work and prepare a completely clear and understandable document. Although, on the other hand, if the committee thought otherwise and the committee would assume responsibility that a conceptual new law would be prepared for the second reading, it could be agreed. But frankly, knowing the logic of the adoption of laws, here we would propose to re-read this bill in order to put the committee bill and report there to a quality and full product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u151	Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the bill in its first reading. I think you can do it in the first, not necessarily the first time again, because there is a conceptual basis and you can conceptually support it and, of course, work thoroughly in the process of preparing for second reading. The problem is that there is a lack of conceptual thinking and a lack of strategic solutions in Ukraine. The concept of sustainable development is the concept of economic, environmental and social development. Its priority is human development. And I think maybe the communists haven't figured out what the point is if they don't want to support the bill. He is totally humanistic and deserves support. By the way, Ukraine is 78 places in the world after human development, Russia is 62, Belarus is 67. I mean, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u153	Melniczuk Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u154	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. There is no doubt that the socialists will support the bill, but I would like to put a stop to the problem. Or these programs, concepts and so on, what we've been taking over all these years, we might be able to analyze. What did it give our Ukraine, especially our people? I remember just recently, we're going to talk, my communication in the Viennese region, the Zastavan district of Cherniewec. What are the conditions of the mountain ranges? We've passed a lot of bills, passed laws, made proposals, but life is getting more and more complicated, so I'd like this concept that's so worked out that it's really after we've adopted it in Parliament to. The people of Ukraine felt it. Then we will really say that we have taken a good step.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u155	Yes, the Hare was mentioned by John. Replica, please, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u156	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I want to answer to Deputy Masenko. I'm asking you not to talk nonsense. I have always, indeed, defended the interests of my people, but as you know, we have never been in power, our political power is the Ukrainian People's Party, the National Movement of Ukraine, and here you and your descendants have always been. And you know very well about the 239, which was here in Parliament. You're criticizing Kravczuk, look at the nest he's from. So I ask the Hare not to plant it in Greenjole, nor on any needle of addiction, because the Rabbit won't be able to do that. That's what you should know. I've got it. The Ukrainian People's Party is the security guard that keeps people on course. But I want us to vote for this concept after all. It was in vain that I said no votes would be cast by those who wanted to win the grand. Figure out who's going to feed these grandes today and then tell them that the West is funding them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u157	Thank you. All of it. Calm down. Dear colleagues, calm down. Some forgot that he was a minister. Well, it doesn't matter. Dear colleagues, let's calm down. A serious document needs to be accepted. First and foremost. In fact, we are with you, no matter what this concept is called, but we have practically approached what 85 articles of the Constitution require of us, that the Supreme Council determines the basic principles of internal and external politics. It's called something different, but it's a principle of internal and external politics. We've got about 15 of these. Unfortunately, we haven't considered them yet. And if throughout history, 20 rules have been considered, and unfortunately to this day, since 1996, when the Constitution was adopted, we have unfortunately not established these principles. Let's vote, I want to draw your attention to just two of these moments. There are two draft regulations. Decree 5749 of the author himself, Landik, and Order 5749 of the Committee. Committee, do we vote? Okay. Landik's taking his picture, so we're going to vote in favour of the 5749th committee. I am voting on the adoption of a decision on the concept of Ukraine's transition to sustainable development. Registration number 5749. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:57:40]] For 215 Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[13:58:04]] For 207 There was another offer. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to send the school back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u158	You've already done your project. Dear colleagues, let's move forward like this, I'm saying that some of the 15 bills on the basic principles of internal and external politics, we're going to ask to join these projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u159	But it's the same thing. Suit yourself. Then the draft decision is withdrawn. Yes, we have 15 minutes left. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities is under consideration. [[new editor]] Here are two bills 6073 and 7149. He answers both as the author of the drafts and reports to the committee by Montenegrin Volodymyr Kirilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u160	Dear people's deputies, in spite of what's happened, I can't help it, I can't afford to say that we have what we might not have, and we don't have what we might have, we have what we're supposed to have. And now, with regard to the bill, I'm going to report Bill No. 6073 on amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditive Activities. The Ukrainian Act on Audit Activities was adopted in 1993. During the time since its adoption, some changes have taken place in Ukraine’s legislation. Moreover, the application of the Law proved to be imperfect and separate from its position, which led to the need to make changes to the law. For example, the Audit Act provides that an auditor or an audit firm must be licensed to perform its audit activities. However, as early as 2000, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, which did not provide for the licensing of audit activities. Therefore, it is suggested that the law of licensing should logically be removed. Instead, with a view to organizing activities in the market for audit services, a register of audit firms and audiences should be established. It's very important. I'd like to introduce a register of audit firms and audiences. It is expected that the scheduled register will be published at least once a year in the professional edition of the Auditor’s Chamber. In my opinion, this will help customers to get a better look at the market. We work for the consumer. At the same time, the right to conduct a mandatory audit is open to audiences and audit firms that are included in the register. This is already a guarantee of an appropriate quality of auditing. The bill also proposes to harmonize the terminology of the law with the Code of the Master. As for accounting and the special law on accounting and financial reporting in Ukraine. I mean, they're in line with the laws that have already been passed. It is also a normal routine legislative work. With a view to improving the work of the Auditorium of Ukraine, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the articles regulating the establishment and operation of the Audit Chamber. In particular, it is envisaged to include representatives of the State Commission from securities and stock markets, and a government commission from financial markets regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Come on, let's do it quickly. The findings of the committee. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u162	I play two roles today because I report my own law and the law that will be the Swan. Or maybe Lebedowski and then me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u163	It's swan's, and then it's your minute. Okay. Valerius Anatolyevich Lebedivsky, please. Bill 6073, if I understand correctly. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u164	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor! You've got a bill on auditorial activity, number 6073. I'd like to point out that the law in force was passed back in 1993 and, of course, it was only oriented at the time of the audit at the time and when the economy, the markets were just being decided and it couldn't fully account for international practice. Both the Supreme Council and previous convocations have repeatedly tried to make changes to that law, but until now they have not been adopted. And in order to replace the old law on auditing, it is I who propose a new version of this law, not a separate amendment, as in the draft law of Cherniak. In principle, the novelty was said to coincide with the Drafting project, this is the introduction of a register, instead of a license that had little room for today and the difference is that according to the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act, the bill defines the subject matter of auditing accounting and financial reporting. A distinction as in the current law is written in public accounting, or only financial reporting is in the law of Cherniak. Both laws provide for the right of non-residents to be auditors. I must point out that this is in line with the negotiations conducted by the State of Ukraine regarding the accession to the WTO and this rule is foreseen by the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Society, which was ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 1994. Unlike the current law and the bill of Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. My bill foresees the timeliness of a certificate of qualification to engage in auditorial activities and specifies the authority and status of the Ukrainian Auditorium and allows for the creation of more than one professional public organisation of auditors. Unlike the law in force, the bill provides for the creation of a register of auditors, the need for higher economic or legal education as a mandatory requirement for persons who may be auditors, the introduction of a position such as that of the head of the auditorium of Ukraine, the control of the auditorium over the quality of the audit services and the performance of the audit. If this bill is adopted, trust will be increased, both by Ukrainian and foreign investors, to work in the Ukrainian market. I would like to stress the need for adoption of either my bill, or the draft draft law, because the need to adopt these changes in society has matured. And I immediately make an offer if no bill is adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Carmazine, please. Short-term procedure, yes. From the site or.? Yuri Anatolyovich, I can't see you. No, he's coming. And from the committee, yes. Please, one minute from the committee, Vladimir Kirilovich, until he gets here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u166	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, submitted by the People's Deputy of Lebedivsky and the National Deputy of Cherniak. Here's a list of what's in the drafts, and I said that, Lebedowski, I'm dropping the cs and the moments. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on Bill 6073 that the first reading of the bill could be based on comments made. The conclusion of draft Law 7149 as a result of the first reading may be taken as a basis. The committee decided to base Bill 6073.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u167	As always, the committee acted wisely. Please, Yuri Carmazin, Solomonine behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u168	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill is being considered at the end of the day, but it is very important, very important and can seriously affect the situation in the country. What are we talking about? This is about the fact that draft 6073 proposes that other definitions of the terms “audit”, “audit conclusion”, and so on, that is to say, considering the audit of accounting records and financial reporting of the host subject for the purpose of expressing the auditor’s independent opinion on their reliability in all essential aspects and compliance with the requirements of Ukraine’s national accounting standards. I believe that this law is very important, and it can affect every business subject. And so I'm very cautious about the money that was proposed in Bill 6073 since the first of September 2004, which was introduced by the National Deputies of Zvaric and Lebedivski. What's bothering me? I'm worried about the job, the new job, the salary, the regulars, if you want. Well, first of all, there's an increase in the number of audiences. The head of the auditorium is introduced, this is article 13, article 15. He says that the Head of the Auditorium is the senior official of the Auditorium, who exercises his authority on a professional basis, and the money has to be collected from somewhere for its maintenance. This time. I firmly believe that we have lived without the head of this room, and we will live without it. In fact, in its status, it approaches institutions such as the Council of Justice or others. One. The other one. In fact, hidden licenses are introduced because only those who are included in the Single Register will be able to work. Although I do not see this in the Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities. That's why I think we should be very careful about this, and I don't think we should be making any changes to these audit laws right now. It is because it will make the activity of the subjects of the household more difficult today than it will make it easier. I'm not voting for changes to both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u169	You're getting better. Thank you. Yes, Solomonine, I can't see. Yes, dear. The school of Andrew. If you don't mind, just a minute from the spot, then the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u170	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, I would like to point out that the bill is on its own. is meant for 6073, it is the one that is necessary to organize as one and the other in order to organize the auditorium’s audit activities. Only the only thing that normally goes to the law in all the things that colleagues have prepared is to MP each other, Law 6073 has a little bit more notice, from our point of view. Article 8 here stipulates that audits are mandatory in other cases provided for in Ukraine’s laws, since the law under consideration is fundamental to audit activity, it also has to determine the conditions, the reasons and the periodicity of the audit, and it cannot be dropped on laws that do not exist in principle because it has to regulate something, is somewhat illogical. And here we need a substantial refinement of the rules for the registration of the Miniature Standards of Auditing. Well, there should be auditing standards here, of course, but they have to be standardized and refined in this law, not in some, I don't know, other.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u172	Honorable National MPs. John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party proposes to adopt either one of these two bills, although we highly doubt that these bills should now be put to the vote because there are no people in the room. If we allow non-residents to do so, that's the question, then we have to put down in this bill, perhaps some restrictions, such as the language of the state, or in some way reflect that. But if this is the proposal that Cherniak was talking about -- in order to create a register of audit firms and audiences -- really, it's very necessary. And only then can anyone who wants to order an audience be guided by the sea, by the unguarded sea of these firms, and see what level of responsibility these firms have. So it's also logical to suggest that Cherniak completes and expands the mandate of an auditorium that would be responsible for controlling the auditory activity and that would retrain the personnel, so let's speak, in a simple language. So, as we can see, even from what I've been saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u174	So I would ask you to accept either one of the bills in the first reading and then work on it. This is the position of the Ukrainian People's Party, and I would like to take this position. Moving the vote to tomorrow is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u175	Yes, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u176	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I agree with my colleagues' offer. The bill is very interesting, it needs to be adopted. Let's move the vote to tomorrow. Maybe it's just the will of the people's deputies. Not only do we lack the hands but we also lack the ability to vote. Adam Ivanovich, I made a proposal yesterday about the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7083, it's about the debt write-offs to producers under force majeure. I'm talking to you again, maybe again. There was an assignment, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a budget committee, and to this day no one has addressed me. And I think in general that the adoption of this bill is absolutely necessary for farmers to pay off their debts to farmers in the face of force majeure. I'm asking you to put it in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-05-m0.u177	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. We'll vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities shall be put to the vote. [[new editor]] Registration number 6073. [[14:16:26]] For 133 I would like to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. Registration number 7149. [[14:17:03]] For-103 Dear colleagues, if it's your will tomorrow, I'll put the bill to the vote. It's going to be a violation of the Rules tomorrow, you're absolutely right. In breaking the rules, I'm going to have to re-vote it tomorrow. You don't use words, it'll be better for you. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 16 o'clock we work in factions and committees.
