ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests invited to the Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Yeah, we're getting ready to register. In the meantime, I'm going to give you the good news and welcome to today's birthdays for our colleagues, Bauer Mikhail Jozefovich and Kukobo Anatoly Thochovitch. [[Applause]] In order for us to have the opportunity, we welcomed those present in the hall and those whom we greeted in a year’s time. Yes, please turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:14]] Registered - 329 There are 329 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. But I see that's not all, we'll re-register. Dear folk colleagues, according to the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council today at our morning meeting, we have another Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In its decision of 8 September 2005, the Supreme Council defined the following subject of its consideration - “On the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine”. The government appointed the Head of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Markets of Victor Ivanovich Suslov as the spokesman for the issue. You've been given information and help materials from the government. That's why we're going to start our government day. The following rules are proposed: a 30 - minute and an hour - and - a - hour - information report for answers to written and oral questions, a representative of the profile committee for the presentation, give 10 minutes. Then we'll have a debate. First of all, the word will be given to representatives of factions and MPs. This will be the order in which we will consider the matter. I invite the head of the State Commission for the regulation of financial services markets in Ukraine, Viktor Ivanovich Suslov. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u2	Respectable Ukrainian People's Deputies! First of all, on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, allow me to thank the Supreme Council for the first time appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a Government Day on the status and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine. You've been given some background material. We have also prepared answers to questions posed by factions and committees and by the people's deputies. We have received 34 such questions, and we have prepared a presentation. All materials are compiled in such a way that they complement each other. That is, what will not be said in the reports will be answered in the answers to questions. I'm asking you to give me a presentation. Before I go to the characteristics of modern insurance for Ukraine's insurance market, I believe it is necessary to make some comments on the principles of the construction of the insurance market. It must be borne in mind that insurance is a paid commercial service and that it is paid for in different cases either by the State budget or by public and commercial enterprises or by citizens. Accordingly, by making insurance payments or making insurance premiums, insurers protect themselves against the risks that may arise. The insurance company receives insurance premiums and, in the event of such insurance events, makes insurance payments. So, I would like to draw attention to this, which is important for all the further consideration of the material, that in Ukraine the state of the insurance market is such that for every 100 bracelets of insurance payments is paid on average in the form of reimbursements of 22 bracelets and 78 bracelets. This represents compensation for the costs of companies and premiums earned by insurance companies or the income of insurance companies. If that is the case, and we have a great deal of questions about the proposals of MPs for new types of compulsory insurance, then it should be made very clear that in this case public costs are sufficiently high and in all cases where new types of insurance related to payments by public organizations and enterprises are introduced, especially through the State budget, the efficiency of the use of such funds is generally not high. And in our view, we should refrain from introducing a large number of new types of insurance. Next. Speaking of principles, I'd like to draw your attention to the next slide. It should be borne in mind that insurance is governed by civil law. That is, it is based on the contractual relationship between the insurance company and the consumer of insurance services. It is in this respect that the disputes in insurance presuppose, first and foremost, a judicial solution. And many of these treaty relations have generally not been successful with regard to the treatment of State-organisms. In Ukraine, too, the system of protection of the rights of consumers of insurance services and such a system should still be established. Either it would be an insurance ombudsman system, as in many developed countries, or a pre-trial dispute settlement system, by means of an arbitral tribunal, which we believe may be established within the League of Insurance Organizations of Ukraine. Well, the third important preliminary comment concerns Ukraine's system of government regulation of insurance activities. Since insurance is an area of civil relations, the principal regulator is, of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which regulates this area by enacting relevant laws. The rules and regulations for the implementation of these laws are in line with the Cabinet of Ministers Insurance Act or with the Financial Services Act and the State Regulation of the Financial Services Market, namely, the authorized authority. The situation today, when two regulators are actually in line with the legislation, is not normal. We believe that decisions should be taken on the final transfer of the power to regulate the insurance market from the Cabinet of Ministers of the State Commission for the Regulation of the Financial Services Market. And there is an important feature in the organization of insurance market surveillance. Ukraine is currently using an approach related to the supervision of the implementation of laws and regulations. In terms of world practice, this is an outdated approach. In developed market economies, risk-based surveillance is used, i.e. market regulation powers are transferred to the regulator as our commission is and should be. This, of course, should mean a very high degree of trust for regulators, attracting the best insurance professionals in the country to work and creating a special funding environment, respectively. These preliminary comments will enable us to understand correctly the overall trends in the Ukrainian insurance market. Next slide. Thus, with regard to the development of the insurance market, the total assets of insurance companies now account for 18 billion grevens in the first half of 2005. This is the bulk of all non-bank financial sector assets. These assets amount to 21.2 billion bracelets. Of course, this is almost 10 times less than the assets of the banking sector, which shows that the potential for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine is not fully realized. Ukraine's insurance market today is characterized by the presence of the following insurance companies. In Ukraine, 398 insurance companies are currently registered and employed, including 347 companies specializing in risk types of insurance and 51 companies are life insurance companies. As you can see, the number of companies has grown quite rapidly so far. I think there's already a saturation point and that's not going to increase any further. The number of companies is likely to decrease slightly in the near future. Let's look at the dynamics of collecting gross and net premiums on the insurance market. You see, the insurance market has developed very quickly in recent years, but in the beginning, I will explain that gross bonuses are all premiums, insurance payments collected by insurance companies, and net bonuses are the same gross premiums from which a re-account of premiums is excluded. The re-account arises in the case of internal reinsurance and it is therefore the net premiums that reflect the real dynamics of the market. In 2004, the insurance market peaked, raised 19.4 billion gross premiums, more than twice the 2003 figure and raised 9.7 billion net bonuses respectively, one more than in 2003. I would like to point out that such an explosive increase in the collection of insurance premiums is not evidence of the dynamic development of the market. In this case, this growth has been linked to the active use of the insurance market for tax optimization and the implementation of different schemes, the withdrawal of capital abroad. Our commission was established in 2003, and in 2004 we established a system to combat these negative phenomena. Therefore, in the first half of 2005, you see a significant reduction in the collection of bonuses, but this does not indicate a crisis, which indicates a recovery of the market. This is demonstrated by the level of payment. I would like to draw attention here to the level of payments on this schedule, based on the net prize rate and the gross bonus rate. Thus, the net prizes are more reliable because there is no repetition of the same amounts, and you can see that in the year 2003 the Commission was established a minimum level of payments in respect of the prizes collected, 11.6 per cent. Since then, this level has started to rise to 14.6 per cent in 2004 and 22.9 per cent in 2005, which shows the gradual clearance of Ukraine's insurance market from scheme operations. If we look at the average of one insurance company, you can see that there has been an increase in these rates in the collection of net premiums, in the growth of assets, statutory funds and insurance reserves since 2000-2004, which shows significant improvements in insurance companies and improvements in the situation in the insurance market. Well, the decline in the figures for the first half of 2005 is due to the fact that we cancelled licences for six first-tenths insurance campaigns, I would like to draw attention to that. Because these six campaigns were in the middle of a scheme of insurance and capital withdrawal abroad and were in violation of Ukrainian legislation. Further information on structural changes in the insurance market is provided on the structure of the premiums collected for the first half of 2005 compared with the first half of 2004. You can see that, during this period, life insurance, the practically doubling of premiums, and this shows the development of a classic type of insurance, the increase in voluntary personal insurance charges and the decline of 903 million financial risk insurance charges. This type of insurance was used mainly in the insurance market to implement tax and capital withdrawal schemes abroad. In general, a reduction of $2 billion in premiums means that a reduction of 2 billion under fictitious insurance contracts has been attributed to the gross costs of enterprises, which means that, according to a gross and approximate estimate, 500 million units of income tax have been added to the budget. But as we've been working on it, I'll tell you what. Now information on foreign investments in the insurance market. The schedule, which is presented, shows a rapid increase in foreign investment, with the major investors in Ukraine being Britain - 228 million grevens, the United States - 148 million grevens, Denmark, Austria, Canada, but also in the sixth place, Russia, with 11 million grivens. In Ukraine, daughterhood campaigns from world leaders of insurance, such as the US, the German Alliance, have already been successfully launched this year by the largest company in Central and Eastern Europe, the Polish PZU. And, well, there is the structure of the origin of investment on the next schedule, which is, in our view, a very progressive structure. And the presence of investments from the major developed economies demonstrates the proper regulation of the insurance market and the growing trust of foreign investors. Next: Priority areas for the public regulation of the insurance services market. That is how we considered the implementation of internationally recognized principles and standards for the supervision of insurance activities, such as the introduction of compulsory insurance for civil liability of vehicle owners in accordance with the law adopted by the Supreme Council, which entered into force on 1 January. Our priority was and remains to prevent the use of the insurance system for tax evasion, money-laundering and capital withdrawal abroad. Our priority is to develop personal insurance, develop legislative proposals for work in the insurance market. For example, we provide a list of regulations that have been developed by the Government and the State Commission with a view to ensuring mandatory insurance for vehicle owners. As you can see, it's quite a list. And all that was necessary was done in time and fully implemented in accordance with the law in order for the law to act. Today, according to the Motor Transport Bureau, in Ukraine, this type of insurance covers slightly more than 30 per cent of the owners of vehicles. That's not enough. The problems involved in the introduction of the law are unfortunately related to the work of the road inspection or to the new Road Patrol Service, which has not yet fully carried out its duties to monitor the presence of drivers' policies, but work is under way in this direction. And we hope that by the end of the year, sales rates will increase significantly. It is now more detailed on the closure of money-laundering channels and the withdrawal of capital abroad through reinsurance, because, you know, the last two years for the Government's work are a major and very complex topic. The schedule that you see shows that in 2003 non-residents received a net premium of 46.1 per cent, or that 3 billion 17.5.6 million bracelets were withdrawn abroad. This is a very large amount of money for Ukraine. Accordingly, the return on money did not exceed 1-2 per cent, and this caused us to have a very large, so to speak, doubts that the system that worked before is the right one. In 2004, we introduced very strict controls on the withdrawal of capital abroad, and adopted a number of regulations that limited such opportunities. And as you can see, in the first half of 2005, capital withdrawals through half-year re-insurance have dropped to 201 million grevens, representing 5.7 per cent of the total sum collected. Thus, we believe that the efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Commission have ended the semi-criminal and criminal business, which is estimated at $400 million a year. Naturally, the fight against such a business was and is continuing, and this struggle has been tense enough. On the next chart, you see where the money went. In 2004, 1 billion 400 million bracelets were drawn from non-Baltic insurance organizations, particularly in Lithuania. Since our activities in the first half of 2005, there has been no transfer of capital from Ukraine to the Baltic countries. The situation has thus been fully rectified. Well, in terms of how we have done so, the chief adoption by the Cabinet of the Minister of Ukraine of Decree 124 of 4 February 2004 on the procedures and requirements for the implementation of reinsurance from the non-resident, non-resident, non-insured, non-insured, non-insured and non-licensed insurance contracts. But there are also a number of other additional conditions. We had to create detailed databases on the work of non-resident insurers and reinsurers, and by establishing these bases with the help of a number of international organizations, we are now confidently controlling capital flows abroad. In January 2005, together with the National Bank of Ukraine, we adopted a procedure whereby the transfer of money abroad is subject to the agreement of reinsurance contracts with us. We have formulated clear requirements for these treaties and for today, as I have already said, reinsurance mechanisms and channels cannot be used or used to withdraw capital abroad and money-laundering. Next. With regard to the necessary measures, where we would like to cooperate with the Supreme Council on the further normalization of the situation in the insurance market. We believe that the current practice of exempting insurance companies from income tax is not justified. As you know, insurance companies don't pay a profit tax, they pay three percent of the tax on the premiums collected. And it is very easy to prove that this particular feature is the basis for setting up withdrawal schemes for the benefit tax. We also believe that it is necessary to amend the Insurance Act in order to introduce licensing, re-insurance, including abroad, which is being used in many countries, including Russia. We believe that international standards on the right of the controller to control reinsurance contracts and a number of other measures should be introduced into Ukrainian legislation. We have, of course, fought money-laundering and capital withdrawal, including surveillance techniques. After these violations, we cancelled the licenses of 12 insurance companies, issued 68 prescriptions, stopped six licenses and eventually, and that's also very important. Nine criminal cases have been instituted by law enforcement authorities against the major groups that specialize in money-laundering and capital withdrawal abroad. And here's more detailed information that in 2003, before our commission was established, the maximum quantities were, in 2004, we cut them, we stopped all of them in 2005. Next. We have a serious law enforcement problem. The case is that courts often make decisions in favour of, say, governmental bodies. The reason is that there is no generalization of the practice and settlement of disputes in the courts, and we would like to assist the Supreme Council in the adoption of such a decision by the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the consolidation of the practice of re-insurance disputes, the withdrawal of capital abroad and so on. The next section on the main directions for the development of the insurance market. These areas are defined in the Concept for the Development of the Insurance Market, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main thing is that it has been decided to draft a new legislation on insurance based on the European Union standards, to improve the legal framework for the protection of the rights of consumers of insurance services, to move to an international system of supervision, to promote long-term life insurance, to participate in non-State insurance, to strengthen the potential supervision of companies, to increase the level of capitalization of the company, to the quality of assets, to develop insurance, to pay particular attention to brokers, because their number in Ukraine is catastrophically low and they are not correct, to be discriminated against in the current tax system, to do much work to improve the level of the population's insurance culture. We are also actively preparing the insurance market for entry into the world trade organization and are also making serious efforts to improve the human and scientific security of the insurance market. In particular, I would like to refer to the characteristics of the decisions already taken regarding Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. So what are the prospects for foreign affiliates? This is one of the demands made to Ukraine. Yes, adopted accordingly. In July this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the relevant amendments to the Ukrainian Insurance Act, which requires the fulfilment of a number of conditions for branches of foreign banks, foreign insurance companies, sorry before they can work in Ukraine. This includes the availability of a guarantee deposit in Ukrainian banks'accounts, the placement of insurance reserves in Ukraine, the requirement for the rating of these companies and a number of other requirements, including the signing between the State commission and the supervisory authority of the insurance activity in the country of registration of the Memorandum for the exchange of information, and so on. Under the law, branches of foreign insurance companies will be able to work in Ukraine five years after Ukraine joins the organization. These are the decisions that have been taken correctly, leading us to conclude that the working conditions of Ukrainian insurance companies and branches of foreign companies will be ensured and that the interests of the national insurance market will be protected accordingly. Finally, on the cooperation of the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the regulation of the insurance market. The Government of Ukraine considers it necessary to request the Supreme Council to adopt, on second reading, a draft law amending the Insurance Act. The draft was adopted on 21 December last year as a basis. Because it is the project that establishes the requirements or the possibility of compulsory licensing of reinsurance activities. Next. If this law is adopted, we will have a uniform regulation of the insurance market because, with the consent of the Government of the State Financial Services Regulatory Commission, it is proposed to transfer the Government's powers in this area, which are still in line with Kabmin's legislation. Next. We also request the Supreme Council, if possible at this session, to adopt, on second reading, the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws on Compulsory Insurance, No. 5272. It was adopted on the first reading a year and a half ago from 22 June 2004. Because the adoption of the Act would eliminate 27 types of unwarranted, 27 types of compulsory insurance that were not justified. You can see from this graph that the level of insurance for these types of insurance is, let's say, a year, there, 38.7 million bracelets, a payment rate of 0.3 per cent. So we're making money in most of the state budget, we're getting for every 100 bracelets we've paid for these kinds of insurance, 30 copies of payments, right? Think of the need to save the budget and the law should be passed. In conclusion, I understand that one minute is left, and I want to say that in order for financial markets to be effectively regulated in the country, the Supreme Council must take care to create appropriate conditions for the regulator of such markets. The data I have given you shows that we have given the State several hundred million immediately after our development as a result of our actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u3	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u4	Well, it's the last one. I said that the result of this activity is the savings of hundreds of millions of bracelets. That level of funding this year, that is 8.4 million bracelets, is not enough to create a modern, effective regulator. I hope that this topic will also be discussed as a result of Government Day. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u5	Thank you, thank you, Victor Ivanovich. So can we adopt laws? How are you set up? Vote? Yes, please sign up for the questions. We'll hold one in writing, one in lips. Victor Ivanovich, you will prepare for your correspondence. Please indicate on the monitors who signed up for the question. Yes, please, a written question, then Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u6	It's a written question. Deputies of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. How are conditions for economic activity ensured through insurance market instruments? Well, the insurance market is the largest investor in the national economy in all countries. To date, insurance companies have collected 5 billion grevens of insurance reserves, up to 40 per cent of these amounts can be invested in shares of Ukrainian enterprises and bonds, up to 40 per cent can be placed in government securities, up to 15 per cent can be invested in Ukraine's economy in the directions determined by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with Order No. 1,000 211. This is the development and introduction of high-tech equipment, mining, waste treatment of the mining and metallurgical complex, housing construction, transport infrastructure development. Life insurance companies under existing legislation have the right to long-term financing or to credit housing, and a draft decree has been prepared by the Government. They also have the right to issue loans to insured persons. Thus, the further development of the insurance market will allow us to have with you the strong domestic investor we have been looking for for for so long in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u7	Please, Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u8	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear reporter, please tell me, did you call this number 78 and 22, what is the rate of income for insurance companies? That's the first question. The second question, What weight does foreign insurance companies weigh in insurance operations? And thirdly, isn't there an insurance policy that we have, increasingly, a powerful source of money waste from Ukraine abroad? You said it's going to return no more than 2 percent to Ukraine. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u9	That's a good question. In terms of profitability, the insurance business is one of the most profitable today in the Ukrainian economy. And its profitability is determined, including by the fact that, as early as 1997, the Supreme Council of Ukraine released, as you know, insurance campaigns from the profit tax. And I said that the average payment rate was about 23 percent. Thus, of every 100 sums paid as insurance premiums, 23 are on average insurance payments, the rest cover costs and the profits of insurance campaigns, but on average. For certain types of insurance, the level of payment is much higher, for example, in health insurance, for 60 per cent, in classical insurance, in civil liability insurance for vehicle owners, it is significantly higher than 30 per cent, about 40 per cent. So we need to talk about insurance. I've given you examples of 27 types of compulsory insurance that don't pay at all and everything becomes a net campaign profit, yes. That is why we propose that these species be eliminated. What about the participation of foreign campaigns? Ukraine has strong foreign campaigns, we have 51 foreign capital campaigns, and their numbers are constantly increasing. Foreign campaigns work in the field of classical insurance. They do not pose any threat to the national economy, nor to the development of the national insurance market. Next. I am willing to speak in more detail, if necessary, about the problem of using insurance for tax evasion and capital withdrawal. With regard to capital withdrawal, the problem is fully resolved. We now have no problem with reinsurance, as strict control of all these operations has been introduced. But the problem of using insurance for tax evasion is a specific and distorted tax system. The Government is therefore preparing a draft law under which the Supreme Council will be invited to correct some of these distortions, and I hope that these proposals will be supported by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u10	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u11	Deputies of the Party of “Regions”, “Regions of Ukraine”. “What are the results of the checks on the correct application of the insurance policy of Ukraine on insurance activity and the reliability of their reporting?” Well, these are the results. We carried out 974 inspections in 2004-2005. As a result, licenses were revoked from 66 insurance companies, 110 fines were imposed, and 740 other measures were applied to companies. This was largely related to violations in the area of capital withdrawal abroad and on some other issues. As a result of an analysis of the report, for example, this year, we issued an order to 80 companies to address violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u12	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u13	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Victor Ivanovich, in the information given to us by the government, and in your speech, perhaps in the absence of time, there is no or no fight against the monopolies of insurance among the priorities of the state regulation of the insurance market. Maybe we don't have that kind of threat. And if so, please tell us what your national commission is doing to overcome this negative phenomenon, which not only violates the rights of millions of insured persons, but discredits the insurance business and corrupts the power of corruption? That's the first question, monopolism. And the second question. Compared to our countries, our neighbors, how do we look at the level of insurance payments? And the third question. You're an authority figure, I remember you from your previous call, and you believe that in our country, private insurance will in time become a major factor in increasing the well-being of our people? Three questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u14	Okay. With regard to the fight against monopolies. Of course, we are fighting monopolies, and the Antimonopoly Committee is also fighting them. Recently, the Antimonopoly Committee has considered violations of antimonopoly legislation in the sale of insurance policies for the liability of vehicles. This was due to the fact that in the MOU system, GAIs have created conditions for monopolies for the sale of policies using their office premises. As you know, decisions have been made to impose large amounts of fines on companies in this regard and regulations have been issued by the Ministry of the Interior. There is another problem with the fight against monopolies, and it is linked to the holding of large-scale offers for insurance, let alone liability for nuclear damage. There are large amounts of insurance payments made by Energoat, but in these cases there is always an open tender. There's no monopolism, there's got to be a winner. Furthermore, at the level of insurance payments, it was a good question because I said that Ukraine had achieved the best figure in recent years — 23 per cent. But we need to understand that the world rate in developed countries is 70 to 80 per cent. Therefore, Ukrainian insurance companies did not achieve this for one reason, because we have two insurance markets. This should be understood clearly that there is a classical insurance market where insurance companies carry out real insurance payments, there is a scheme or pseudo-insurance market, so in the current legal system in Ukraine there is an opportunity to use insurance to reduce taxes. And there's no payment. And the indicator is like an average hospital temperature. Therefore, in order to get real, we have to look at classical insurance, there are decent, normal levels of payment, and there are virtually no financial risk insurances. In order for us to resolve all of this, we need to adopt the laws that I have mentioned. There is another serious problem with compulsory types of insurance: these are the sectoral types where ministries and agencies are given the opportunity, under the form of insurance, to throw large amounts of money at their insurance companies at a minimum level of payment, to actually turn such companies into purses in these ministries and departments, and to say so, legally, in fact, to steal funds from the State budget. That's why we're asking again. For a year and a half, you're preparing this project for second reading. Let us take him before the Supreme Council is finished. Next. Do I believe that insurance can contribute to the well-being of the population? I'm convinced of that. But I have to understand, from this I started out that insurance is a fee I'm a business service. In order for the population to use this service actively, it must have income. Therefore, the level of development of insurance and, in particular, the participation of the population is linked to the level of income of the population. In Ukraine, an average of 78 dollars per citizen per year is collected, and in developed market economies, it is at least $3,000. Therefore, the difference is so divisive, and this difference shows that in Ukraine only the secured segments of the population today can benefit from insurance services. Regrettably, most of the population cannot benefit from these services. But it's not an insurance problem, it's a welfare policy and a level of income.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u15	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u16	Another question from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. How are the conditions of payment of insurers governed by legislation and regulations in Ukraine respected? Of course, capacity to pay is the central problem of the insurance market. It is a pleasure to ask the deputies questions on such special issues. These conditions are ensured by the existence of a paid statutory fund; last year the requirements of the Insurance Act have been completed, according to which the minimum of the statutory funds of insurance companies has been brought to 1 million euros for companies engaged in risk insurance and one and a half million euros for the life insurance company. Next. We are tightly monitoring and formulating conditions to exceed the actual capacity to pay and tighten these conditions. In particular, a 25 per cent rule has been introduced since 1 January 2006 to exceed the actual capacity to pay over the rule of law. We have introduced a test system, early warning tests, which are the characteristics of the ability to pay and the financial condition of insurance companies, and we are constantly assessing the state of the company under these funds. The company's ability to pay is also ensured by centralised insurance reserves. For example, such a fund was established at the Ukrainian Motor Transport Insurance Office. The legislation provides for the possibility of establishing guarantee funds. I mean, that's the topic that's at the centre of our attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u17	Please, Sergey Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Kruk Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u19	Please, Yuri Borisovich Kruk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u20	Dear Viktor Ivanovich, we know you as an experienced parliamentarian of the former, now you're an experienced insurer, if you will. But answer that question anyway. We have many large enterprises, such as seaports, that are interested in ensuring that their workers are healthy and, of course, that they can be medically insured. And is it true that these insurance costs do not relate to the gross costs of enterprises, and according to the Tax Act, corporate profits are related to profits? Should there be changes to the Business Income Tax Act in this case or not, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u21	Of course, we support the development of voluntary health insurance and, in this case, costs must be borne by the gross costs of enterprises. Only those costs should be imposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u22	Yes, please, in writing. Victor Ivanovich, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u23	Yes, the letters. The MP's faction. Another issue of the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u24	Victor Ivanovich, wait. Well, you'll already read it, but I'm pointing out that, according to the position, according to the position, each MP and group can only ask one question. [[It's not you I'm paying attention to, it's the Secretariat.]] [[One!]] Let's do this in the next one and we'll use it because it could be that one faction would ask 20 questions and so on. It won't come. Please, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u25	It's a question. “How are the insurance reserves placed under the conditions established by the Committee on Insurance Supervision?” Well, I must say that this order of the Insurance Supervisory Committee has not been in effect since the beginning of this year, since the adoption of separate regulations by the State Financial Services Regulatory Commission last November and December. Rules on the placement, accounting and placement of life insurance and other types of insurance. I can therefore say that this order does not work today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u26	Yes, please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u27	Dear Victor Ivanovich! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. I have two questions. First. The insurance market in Ukraine is not only monopolized but also regulated. A particularly regulated life insurance market. This is because there is virtually no conscientious competition in this market. As a result, a large number of insurance companies are unwarranted. In view of this, how many of these insurance companies are there now, and how optimal do you think this number should be? And a more general question: In view of this, what is being done and what needs to be done to deregulation and reliberate the insurance market? And the second question is, with the increase in the amount of revenue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u28	Yeah, okay. So it's about the number of companies. You know, a lot of foreign experts are telling us this position, that a lot of insurance companies in Ukraine. We are not guided by many or few of them, we are guided by whether companies meet established requirements and standards or not. The number of companies as the market develops, believe me, will be reduced and no special public policy aimed at suppressing business activities in this sector needs to be implemented. Today, 51 life insurance companies operate in Ukraine. In 2003, it was 30 companies. Yes, this type of insurance is almost doubled annually. At the same time, most payments are made by natural persons, yes. Therefore, the development of life insurance in the developed countries in general is half of the insurance market and even most of the insurance market is 50-60% of the total insurance market. In Ukraine, it's within 1-2 per cent, not more. There is therefore tremendous potential for the development of life insurance. We will certainly support this potential and, as the population's income rises, this type of insurance certainly has the greatest prospects. Further, with regard to suspicious operations. I said what had been done to combat capital withdrawal and those operations had been completely terminated. We have yet to change the situation of the possibility of using insurance to reduce taxes. This pseudo-insurance is an unrealistic insurance policy. And the next challenge that we begin to address by requiring capacity to pay and reserve. This is the challenge of having real assets of insurance companies. Because poor asset quality is a major financial problem. If assets are not real and most of the investment in securities is invested in securities that do not have any real value, there is a risk of default. The most acute problem, among other things, is for life insurance companies, which have accumulated insurance for several decades. In order for people to then receive their life insurance payments, these funds must be invested in reliable assets. These are the priorities that we have been given and the regulations that have already been adopted and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u29	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u30	Deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Questions. On June 23, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted draft Ukrainian Law No. 7564 “To amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act, which removes restrictions on the access of foreign insurers to Ukraine’s market. This is one of the ultimative laws that the adoption of which opens the way for the entry into WTO. What are the consequences of adopting the bill for Ukrainian insurance companies? How do they feel about being expelled from the insurance market? I wish to emphasize that the Government's project was rejected by the Supreme Council. And on the proposal of the Committee on Finances on 7 July this year, a more stringent draft was adopted. And there the Supreme Council has formulated requirements that I have already mentioned that branches of foreign insurance companies will be able to enter Ukraine's market five years after joining the WTO. The availability of guarantee deposits, the existence of other stringent claims with which foreign affiliates will not benefit from any advantage over national companies. Therefore, taking into account the wise decision of the Supreme Council, I am confident that the situation in the insurance market, so to speak, will be maintained in a stable manner by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u31	Please, Mikhailo Stepanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u32	Stepanov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Viktor Ivanovich, how do you describe the role of insurance companies in the development of non-state pensions? And the second. Comment on the extremely high share of foreign investment in the insurance market by the British Virgin Islands? Is it true that the Negroes of the Virgin Islands were so interested in our insurance market or is it our capital that hit off-shore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u33	Okay. The issue of the participation of insurance companies in the non-State pension scheme has been raised, as decided by the Supreme Council in the Non-State Pensions Act, where unfortunately, we have set out sufficiently clear rules that give priority to the system of non-State pension funds and generally impose certain restrictions on the participation of insurance companies in this system. It's a political issue. In our view and, by the way, such recommendations from very many international experts must be returned to the discussion of the topic, and the Supreme Council must, obviously, re-examine the situation by making a conscious decision. Because if it is of interest, we are ready either for committees or for factions to present a performance profile of the system. Because today it is important to bear in mind that the system of non-State pension funds is still developing very slowly, has been attracted since the beginning of the year by some 22 million bracelets into this system and, obviously, since it is voluntary insurance, non-State pension schemes, the consumer should actually have a choice — to use the pension fund system or insurance companies. There is therefore a need to discuss further and make a definitively clear political decision. Now, as far as the British Virgin Islands is concerned, yeah, 4% of foreign investment, right? From the British Virgin Islands. Well, we do not know if this money is of Ukrainian origin, but with regard to the participation of offshore at all, sufficient controls have been put in place to monitor the transition of any capital from off-shore areas in accordance with anti-money-laundering legislation. This law, which allows for the establishment of branches, generally excludes the possibility of transferring branches of foreign insurance companies from off-shore zones. This has been the case at some point in our economy and, believe me, insurance is far from the realm of capital and off-shore zones. Look at many other, all-known major industrial, commercial and other associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u34	After all, Viktor Ivanovich realized that not as many Virginian niggers as the "Ukrainen" niggers who blacked out from the work of the righteous. Yes, please, a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u35	Deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. During Soviet times, it is known that virtually the entire population of Ukraine feared their lives and possessions from accidents that indicated a high percentage of citizens. What is the situation in today’s government? And what types of people are covered by insurance? I've already said that insurance is a commercial service, in principle, for insured people. Today, Ukraine is afraid, let's say, of about 3 million people insured in Ukraine, but the level of indicators is very low. I called 78 dollars in Ukraine, 114 dollars in Russia for one citizen, 188 dollars in Estonia, 431 dollars in Czech Republic, over 3,000 in developed countries. The share of net bonuses received from natural persons in 2004 is only 10 per cent, i.e. 90 per cent is paid by legal persons. The issue was set by the faction correctly, but only by raising the income of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u36	Alexander Tkalenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u37	Alexander Tkalenko. A faction of the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Victor Ivanovich! It is clear that the development of the market in insurance services is influenced not only by the income of our population but also by the negative experience that our population has had in financially diverse pyramids, trusts, and so forth. Returning to the question of non-state fears. non-state pension insurance, I'd like it to be relevant right now, because even when considering the draft budget for the next year, some of the Supreme Council deputies have not agreed to implement such a mechanism as limiting the level of state pensions. Apparently, non-state pension insurance does. And the insurance market is supposed to increase confidence in these insurance campaigns. What is the mechanism you see of increasing the level of this trust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u38	Okay. With regard to negative experience, a fair observation. In that connection, and in view of the discussion of the draft Budget Act. We think that it is necessary to specifically provide for compensation for the lost not only of the population's deposits in the bank, yes, but of the funds that the population has accumulated in the public insurance campaign system. Since the commitments there are also above 7 billion dollars in fines for today, it is necessary to make incremental payments. But with regard to the authority of insurance, this authority is, of course, based primarily on the fulfilment of obligations by insurance campaigns against the population, against the insured. We therefore said that a special system should be established to deal with citizens'complaints. The system prior to the judicial settlement of disputes over insurance payments. Because now, for example, we are boasting, the number of complaints about non-payments, in particular for mandatory vehicle owners, is on the rise. However, as I have already said, we can interfere only when the company has broken the law, and we can impose sanctions on it. But we have no authority in the disputes that concern: much paid by the company, little by the system of evaluation and so on. In Poland, for example, a special law introduced an insurance ombudsman system that dealt with citizens'complaints in the event of non-payment or insufficient payment of insurance benefits. In Ukraine, such a system must be established, and we hope that this paragraph will be included in the draft Supreme Council regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u39	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u40	The Committee on Social Policy of the Supreme Council: “What steps does the government take to improve and improve the insurance market?” The strategic development of the insurance market is determined today by the Cabinet of Ministers' concept of the development of Ukraine's insurance market until 2010. The plan for the implementation of this concept will be approved annually with the participation of market representatives. In the concept, the legal framework for the protection of the rights of consumers of insurance services, the transition to international principles and standards, the promotion of long-term life insurance, and the increase in the level of capitalization of insurers. As far as I'm concerned. There is another point in which we hope to receive the support of the Supreme Council. The transfer of insurance to international accounting and reporting standards is essential for market development. In the banking system, it is known that this transition took place several years ago because the relevant powers were granted to the National Bank of Ukraine. If the Supreme Council deems it possible to amend the Accounting Act, to give us the authority to introduce international accounting and reporting standards, I think we could introduce these standards not only for insurance purposes but also for non-bank financial institutions for a period of two or three years. To date, as you know, under the law for the introduction of international accounting and reporting standards, we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and no such standards have been introduced in any sector other than banking in Ukraine. This is essential both for attracting investors and for our enterprises and financial institutions to be understood by the world's auditors and investors around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u41	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear reporter! I have two questions. First of all, I'm interested in how your commission appreciates the activities of insurance companies from home and abroad, who are better, who works better, who works better, who works better, who works better. To whom there is less claim, and in general, an assessment of their activity in the Ukrainian market. And the next question is, why do we have such high credit rates, especially to get credit to entrepreneurs, that banks always explain that very high insurance standards and they have to make serious assessments to assess what's at stake, they say. And it is constantly explained by the high insurance services of those estimates. The kind of security banks provide. How would you explain that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u43	You see, foreign companies in Ukraine are very different. There are companies that actually have offshore capital and belong to offshore owners. Some of these companies have difficulties in meeting their obligations, and some of them have had to cancel our licenses. Well, in Ukraine there are also subsidiaries from several leaders of the world's European market, and claims to these companies are generally not met. Well, they have a large share of life insurance for today, because many people trust just more foreign companies than national companies. Well, according to some other indicators, you know, everyone who works today and has licenses is in line with the standards of Ukrainian legislation that work. Furthermore, on the issue of credit rates, yes, of course, the price of credit is influenced by the need for insurance. But in general, the reason for the high credit rates in Ukraine, in my opinion, is different. These credit rates are over-inflationary, and this is a matter of the National Bank of Ukraine's monetary policy. With regard to insurance-specific tariffs, this is another topic of concern, and we are working today to provide training for tariff-based specialists in the calculation of reserves. These are actuaries, there are no actuaries in Ukraine or very few. These persons are specifically authorized to carry out the corresponding calculations and are responsible for the validity of such calculations. Thus, in order to achieve a reduction in insurance tariffs, we believe that qualified actuaries must be trained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u44	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u45	Committee on Social Policy of the Supreme Council. What major violations are recorded in the insurance market, and what measures are being taken by the State to address them? I have already said that the main violations for which we brought insurance companies to justice were violations related to non-compliance with legislation to combat money-laundering, illegal withdrawal of capital and tax evasion. These were also violations of the rules on the capitalization of insurance companies, non-compliance with the rules on capacity to pay and non-compliance with the rules on the placement of reserves. Here are the most common violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u46	Please, Valery Aloshin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u47	Dear Victor Ivanovich! I'd like to ask you two questions. One, perhaps quite general, relates to how you see the role and how effective is the work of organizations such as the League of Insurance Organizations of Ukraine and other insurance - market associations? And the second question is perhaps more specific. The material that is distributed to the government’s day describes this. What is needed is a fundamental and fundamental change in the system of taxation of the results of insurance companies. I'd like you to maybe describe in more detail the nature of these changes, where the work is going, and how will the approach be differentiated, perhaps on life insurance and risk insurance as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Indeed, there are a number of voluntary associations of old market participants in the insurance market. The most popular and massive is the League of Insurance Organizations of Ukraine. We work very closely with the League, in particular, all draft regulations are being prepared and discussed with the expertise of the League of Insurance Organizations. We can say that today, in the League of Insurance Organizations, most of the companies represented are companies engaged in classical insurance. That is why the Commission concluded a memorandum of cooperation with the organization. The President of the League of Insurance Organizations is a member of the Advisory and Expert Board of the Commission, a fairly high level of interaction with the organization. As far as other organizations are concerned, so are they. But I will say so, you see, we have been offended by certain proposals for cooperation with these organizations, to the leaders of these organizations, but not one of them, let us say, has not expressed a desire to come to the discussion of a number of issues. In fact, I think there are completely different representatives of the insurance market in those organizations. With regard to taxation. You know, I'll say it in two words, and they'll understand what's going on. When a large industrial enterprise enters into an insurance contract, it provides, in accordance with the law, for gross costs of its insurance payments. Let's just say that if it was 100 units for gross costs, it reduced profit by 100 units, right? The budget does not pay 25 per cent respectively. Twenty-five per cent, 25 units, hundreds of dollars, didn't go into the budget. The insurance company receives these 100 units as its premium. By the legislation you and I have established here, it pays at the same amount 3 per cent, i.e. 3 units. Savings of 22 units are received. All of this is in full compliance with Ukrainian tax legislation. Furthermore, you can easily understand that no one can resist the use of the insurance sector to care for taxes by the largest Ukrainian industrial enterprises, metalworking combinations and so on. So what's the exit? Taxation came to everyone. It is possible that some part of the premiums for insurance companies may be paid, or we were willing to compromise and say that the insurance company should pay the higher amount, either the profit tax or the premium tax, even the same 3 or 4 per cent. Yeah? Why is it important to pay a profit tax? Because when the pseudo-insurance agreements are concluded, there are huge amounts, because I didn't call you by company. If you ask, I'll call. But there are companies that get paid. A billion-million-million-dollar company, right? 1700 million grevens. A small amount, the company is located there in the village of Kharkiv district. There, of course, we stopped her activity, but it is understandable. Yeah, that's right. Vladimir Kirilovich knows everything. You see, but this tax evasion is particularly large, damaging to a colossal State. That's why we've been fighting on this subject for two years. We can't solve this problem. That's a question for you. You can solve it because the insurance sector should not be used for taxation. The budget will receive a lot of money from the real economy if these conditions of taxation are met.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u49	Yes, Victor Ivanovich. You have only written questions. I mean, you read them and you answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u50	Okay. Social Policy Committee. “ How many nonstates exist in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u51	Victor Ivanovich, please wait. Dear colleagues, then we should look at the board and count the time. And you've outsmarted yourself, I'm sorry. For when a person gives a word, he loses his word. So, come on, please, Hook, it'll be science, ask her to ask her a question. But next time, remember, look at the board that you are getting there and don’t pass it on to each other. Please, son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u52	Victor Ivanovich, well, everyone here understands that you've been very professional about everything, but voters at meetings all the time, simple people, always ask the same question. So, Grandma, I insured my granddaughter in the '80s, and she's already grown up, and she's got kids when I can get that insurance for that? And their thousands of questions. I'm asking you a question right now, how are you a representative of the government? That's how this question ends when it's resolved? What can take from this debate today a simple voter, a man who once had a certain amount in our Lord? And the second question is, why did the State lose, so to speak, the opportunity to work as well?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u53	Well, as far as the debt of the Lord is concerned. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted the Act on Compensation for Population Contributions, which applies not only to Sberbank but also to the Gosstrakh system, yes. Under this Act, payments are made by the successor of Gosstrakh, today the company Oranta, to the extent that, in accordance with the Budget Act for each year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine allocates money for this purpose. Yeah? Therefore, there is a matter that must be discussed, obviously in this room and in the light of the financial capacity of the State to address it. There are no other solutions to this question. Real money is needed and real payments must be made. Well, here you go, maybe. As for the existence of public insurance companies. You know, I would totally agree with you. Here I mentioned, let's say, the Polish company PZU, which came here, which is really Poland's largest company, and which is the largest insurance company in Eastern Europe. Yes, there is still a control package in the hands of the State, as was the case with socialism, and the company is certainly developing. But it's tonight, isn't it? The State has been privatized. The state package at Oranta, as you know, today is 25 percent plus one share. Indeed, that is why the State no longer manages the package. Spending money on creating a new insurance company. Well, you know the budget situation yourself, there's no such money in Ukraine and there won't be. Therefore, it is obvious that the insurance market in Ukraine is a private company market.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u54	I'm sorry. Please write down all the questions, Victor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u55	Social Policy Committee. How many non-governmental pension funds exist in Ukraine, and what percentage of the population participates in the system? As of November 1, 2005, 49 non - state pension funds and 35 administrators were reported to the State Register of Finustans. Nonstate pension funds account for about 60,000 people, or 0.13 percent of the population of Ukraine. So the system isn't very developed. Next. Committee on Social Policy of the Supreme Council. How can the arrival of a foreign investor affect the insurance market, and with what effect on the participants? I answered that question. There's probably no need to say it again. The arrival of a foreign investor is a normal practice if it complies with all the laws that I have already mentioned. Social Policy Committee. Does the State provide for the protection and priority mechanisms of the country’s insurers? So we have a general rule of international law that, for foreign and domestic investors, we have exactly the same legal rules in accordance with the law. We do not have any discrimination in the country of foreign investors, so we do not have and are not expected to have any special mechanisms, privileges for companies with purely national capital. Next question. Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council of Ukraine To date, the issue of financing the costs of education facilities funded from the State budget for compulsory insurance of civil liability of legal persons who own land transport equipment, in particular professional and technical educational establishments of the agricultural profession, and those who train qualified workers from the exploitation and maintenance of transport equipment, has not been resolved. Failure to implement the relevant Law by educational institutions in the absence of public funds leads to a deterioration in the educational process as well as the unreasonable use of own funds by educational institutions. What does the government have in mind to do to solve the problem? It is understandable, then, that funding for educational institutions, including vocational and technical institutions, should be governed by the relevant State Budget Act for the year in question. The necessary costs of these institutions should be included in the estimates and therefore the money should be allocated to the State budget. Therefore, the Committee on Science and Education has the opportunity to work on the draft budget, to monitor the availability of the corresponding amounts in the budget and, in the absence of them, to request the Ministry of Finance to contribute the corresponding amounts. Because, of course, the law is binding and for budgetary institutions and funding must be budgeted. Next. The Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council. Whether the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine plans to set up an insurance policy, such as non-fertilization insurance on their lands or crop damage from natural disasters, for educational institutions. The Ukrainian Insurance Act, article 7, provides for compulsory crop insurance and multi-year crop insurance. But it's only mandatory for agricultural enterprises. Therefore, vocational and technical training institutions may provide for crop insurance on the basis of voluntary insurance with appropriate means, as a mandatory type in accordance with the legislation for these establishments. Next question. The Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council. At a working meeting in June 2005, Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko gave serious criticism to the work of the State Employment Centre and the Fund for Ukraine’s generally compulsory state social insurance in case of unemployment. It has been noted that the existing system does not work effectively, especially because it cannot employ graduates of educational institutions. That money is used, not rationally, but in the system of distribution, there are many abuses, including the organization of new jobs. What steps have been taken by the government to eliminate shortcomings and improve the operation of the designated insurance fund? The Ministry of Labour has considered this question and has prepared an answer, as the Ministry has developed a range of measures to address the comments made by the President of Ukraine. In order to prevent the non-target use of the general government unemployment insurance fund, the State Budget Law 2006 proposed by Mintrub to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act, the return rule for the fund paid as unemployment assistance is included once for the organization of business activities for the unemployed. Where such activities are not carried out. Similarly, the introduction of insurance investigations and the justification for the payment of material security to the unemployed. Mintruba also prepared a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on compulsory public, social and social insurance. It is mandatory to publish in the official publications of the Supreme Council and Kabmin, reports on the implementation of the budget of the funds with detailed decryption, expenditure and public submission of such records. In order to strengthen public oversight in the area of social insurance, changes to public oversight have been prepared. In the area of compulsory, public, social insurance for unemployment in connection with temporary disability and expenses related to the birth of a child and funeral. Since September 2005, the minimum unemployment allowance for insured persons has been increased to 150 grevens against 125 bracelets at the beginning of the year. Next question. The Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft State Budget Act 2006 provides that grants to employers for the provision of young people who have received higher or vocational or technical education are made at the expense of the general government unemployment insurance fund. Were such expenses incurred in 2005, in what amount and by what number of jobs? How many jobs does the government plan to cut in 2006? According to Mintruda, in 2005, the Department of State Social Insurance provided social welfare services to 2 million 300,000 unemployed citizens during this period, with the assistance of the Employment Service, 834 thousand 100 persons, 6.9 per cent more than in nine months last year. A total of 155 thousand 200 people were trained in more than 400 occupations. Throughout January and September 2005, 366,000 unemployed people participated in public works. Well, with respect to 2006, Mintruda intends to leave these costs at about the 2005 level. Next question. Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “What steps does the Government plan to take to develop voluntary health insurance? ” With regard to voluntary health insurance, we understand that this is a form of paid health care. Ukraine has established all legislative conditions for the free development of this type of insurance. There are no restrictions and no additional measures are envisaged by the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, I can give you some information that describes the rapid development of this kind of insurance. In 2002, 190 million bracelets were collected in voluntary health insurance, 243 million in 2003 and 309 million in 2004 and 176.4 million bracelets in half that year. That is, this type of insurance has been successfully developed. But it's not for the poor, it's for the safe people, because poor contributions are not yet able to pay for it. Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “How much of the overall health budget is financed by health care institutions at the expense of insurance payments? ” You know, as a method of financing health care, insurance is better off not to be considered in this case. Well, I can tell you that during the first half of 2005, insurance payments for this type of insurance amounted to 100 million dollars, respectively, and that money went to medical institutions to pay for the services provided. Well, in 2005, the health budget in the country is $430.5 million. You can compare, and it becomes clear that health insurance is, of course, not a method of financing health care today. By the way, there is a need for finalization of the prospects for the introduction and possibility of compulsory health insurance with the concept of health development, because there are many proposals for compulsory health insurance, but it must be remembered that it is very expensive and also a paid form of health care. The following question is raised by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “One of the main sources of disability in Ukraine is manufacturing trauma. Does the insurance market have the potential to cover such risks and to provide an effective alternative to the existing system of compulsory state insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases?” It is better not to do so because in Ukraine the issue is resolved in accordance with international standards. In Ukraine, such payments are regulated through social insurance rather than on a commercial basis. In addition, in Ukraine, as far as the commercial insurance system is concerned, there is a type of voluntary insurance such as accident insurance. A number of enterprises pay for this type of insurance, and these payments are always an additional benefit in case of injuries, and they are paid irrespective of the public social insurance payments. The following question is raised by the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “How common is the practice of special insurance premiums for veterans and disabled persons in health insurance, and what must be done to increase the availability of insurance services for these categories of the population? I repeat that this is a commercial system that is governed by treaties. Therefore, Ukrainian legislation does not exist and there can be no centralized benefits. On the basis of a contract between the company and the insured, certain deductions may be made on health insurance tariffs where the insurance is deemed possible. Well, as for expanding access to this species, the same answer is true. Increase in incomes, increase in the population's insurance culture, willingness to spend part of its income on voluntary health insurance. Next question. Committee on Finance and Banking. What action on the part of Parliament is needed in view of the establishment by the State Commission of financial market regulation of strict supervision of the use of the insurance system in various criminal schemes, and are there positive results in this direction? I answered that question and talked about the results. But the Supreme Council can do very well to help the Government and the State Commission by amending the legislation to that effect. In addition, I would like to step up the Financial Services and Government Regulation of Financial Services Act, which should strengthen the powers of the State through its analysis of the origin of the funds of the financial institutions, more detailed monitoring of the founders, heads of financial institutions, control over a number of internal procedures in order to strengthen the control of commercial insurance organizations and monitor their implementation of legislation. Well, there is a natural need for a legal right to license re-insurance, as the lack of legislation today is the fact that in Ukraine the right to insurance is also a licence for the right to re-insurance. When about 400 companies and each of them are able to perform reinsurance operations, of course, supervision is not always successful in such practices. The following question is raised by the Committee on Finance and Banking: Is licensing, intimidation necessary, or is licensing for reinsurance activities abroad or general licensing of reinsurance activities involved? The draft, as I mentioned, was adopted on first reading. If it is finally adopted, special, more stringent licensing conditions will be introduced to re-insurance. Of course, it would be a license to accept reinsurance from other insurance companies. But this is supposed to control reinsurance abroad. Financial Committee: If a decision is made to tax the income of general policy insurers, will this not lead to a decrease in income and a deterioration in the financial situation of insurance companies? Well, I've already told you why tax conditions should be levelled. And with regard to the financial situation of companies, for companies that are engaged in classical insurance, this will be better. And we have made calculations that show that taxation has come to real insurance more advantageous than premium taxation. Of course, for companies that specialize in tax evasion, it will be a loss of very large profits from the business of providing tax reduction services. Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Question6 How is Ukraine's legislation – article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Objects of High Hazard? [[on compulsory insurance, liability for damage caused by accidents in high-risk objects]] This type of insurance is provided for in article 7 of the Insurance Act. The rules and procedures for the conduct of this type of insurance are approved by Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1788 of 16 November 2002 on the approval of the procedures and rules for carrying out compulsory civil liability insurance for damage that may be caused by fires and accidents at high-risk facilities. Licenses for this type of insurance are issued to 164 companies. The results of the insurance are that in 2004, 44 million bracelets were collected for this type of insurance. During the first half of the year, 25 million 130,000, i.e. this type of insurance has been successfully developed and no additional steps are needed to ensure its further development in this case from the State. Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “How does Ukraine's legislation comply with article 25 of the Ukrainian Emergency Rescue Services Act on compulsory personal life insurance for rescue workers?” In accordance with Ukrainian legislation, only compulsory types of insurance are recognized, which are listed in the Ukrainian Insurance Act. There is no mentioned type of insurance in the insurance law, so the Gocomisisia did not issue or issue a licence for this type of insurance. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the protection of rescue workers applies to this category of citizens under the general legislation on insurance for compulsory social insurance against accidents at work, and therefore it is not appropriate for them to adopt a separate type of insurance. Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Question: Is the Ukaina Cabinet planning to redesign and submit to the Ukaina Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian Environmental Insurance Act? If so, when? Two drafts were before the Supreme Council on this issue. One is on environmental insurance, registration number 1046 of 21 May 2002, which was prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The second bill is on environmental insurance, registration number 1046/1 of 3 December 2002, which was introduced by Hennadi Rudenko, a Ukrainian national deputy. The Cabinet of Ministers decided to withdraw its bill. With regard to the second bill, I know that it is under way and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine may consider the bill. This is no longer within the purview of the Cabinet of Ministers. In doing so, we would like to point out that, in our view, the introduction of another type of compulsory insurance, environmental insurance, is not appropriate in this case. And we wish to point out that there are four types of compulsory insurance under existing legislation in Ukraine that protect the interests of third parties and the environment in the event of environmental damage. That is, the liability insurance of the operator of the nuclear installation for nuclear damage, civil liability insurance of operators for damage that may be caused by fires, accidents at high-risk facilities. Insurance for the liability of the exporter and the person responsible for the disposal of hazardous wastes for damage that may be caused by human health, property or the environment during trans-border transport and disposal of hazardous waste. And the liability of the entities involved in the transport of dangerous goods in the event of adverse consequences for the carriage of dangerous goods. I mean, from our point of view, that's enough. Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Questions. Why the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision on the recommendation of the participants in the parliamentary hearings “The Seventeenth Anniversary of the Chernobyl Disaster — Not implemented Experience of overcoming” in the section on proposing the introduction of mandatory national social health insurance for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster? In this regard, we note that Ukraine has adopted and operates the foundations of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory State social insurance. This legislation also applies fully to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Attempts to introduce special regulations for certain categories of citizens are not wrong and there is no provision in Ukrainian legislation. This paragraph of the above-mentioned Supreme Council regulation has therefore not been implemented. Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Questions. Insurance as a branch has a powerful investment potential. The amount of insurance premiums for all types of insurance per year amounts to about 10 billion dollars in insurance payments less than one billion dollars. What measures are being taken by the government to use the investment potential of the insurance sector for Ukraine's financial and deficit economy? I have already mentioned that these measures are mainly related to the creation of an investment environment for funds accumulated by insurance companies in Ukraine in insurance reserves. It was said that these funds amounted to $5 billion in the first half of the year, including investment in the national economy through the purchase of securities up to 40 per cent. And so on, I'm not going to repeat the rules that I've already called before. Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Questions. What steps are being taken by the government to put in place arrangements for the selection of insurance companies on competitive grounds? So any action by the Government in this area is, of course, linked to monitoring the use of budgetary resources. In accordance with article 2 of the Insurance Act, the legislation could be defined as having authorized insurers to carry out certain types of insurance. Where budgetary resources are provided, the currency reserves of the State, the guarantees of the Cabinet of Ministers, then an open tender for the publication of the terms of the tender, results and information on the participation of representatives of voluntary insurance associations is mandatory for the identification of authorized insurers. Well, when it comes to decisions taken by private transport organizations, there are no statutory restrictions on the choice of an insurer who will carry out compulsory insurance. Well, that settles the matter. Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What measures are being taken by the Government to comply with the requirements of the law on compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners? The Act, as is known, entered into force on 1 January of this year. A complete set of preparatory measures had been implemented by the Government in connection with the introduction of the law. In due course, licensing conditions for this type of insurance were approved, the basic rate for this type of insurance was approved, the decree was adopted to approve the calculation of dependency insurance for the death of the breadwinner as a result of the road accident, and the Cabinet of Ministers decreed to amend and acknowledge that certain Cabinet decrees had become invalid. An order has been issued to monitor the existence of an insurance certificate from owners registered in Ukraine in case of departure to another country. Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers'decree on the approval of road traffic regulations have been amended, and several other decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers have been repealed earlier. An Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the amounts of insurance payments under contracts of international compulsory civil liability insurance for vehicles has been adopted. Well, there's still a large list of regulations of our commission that I'm not going to list. Importantly, despite the complexity of the law, all we had to do, including the timely issuance of 84 licences for this type of insurance, was done. Next question. National Deputy of Ukraine Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich. What government sees the development of insurance in the competitive market for insurance services, including when entering the European Union? With regard to voluntary health insurance, enough is said on this issue. The discussion, which is discussed both in the Supreme Council and in society, is the need or absence of such a need for compulsory health insurance. Once again, the introduction of compulsory health insurance, if done by the Supreme Council, would mean the introduction of full paid health care in Ukraine. Because health insurance is just a form of payment for such health care. And before making a decision, we need to answer the question: "Is our population able to make a mandatory decision. Buy mandatory health insurance policies? Yes, by the way, the Constitution doesn't allow it either. Therefore, in our view, compulsory health insurance can only be introduced for certain types of diseases — this is of paramount importance where this is due to severe illness and high costs. Accordingly, insurance could be effective in this case, for example, oncological diseases associated with organ transplantation. We know that organ transplants involve expenses, liver transplants, kidney transplants are tens of thousands of dollars, yes. It's only insurance that can pay for it. The government can't afford it. This may be common in the case of AIDS and tuberculosis, but it may be discussed with specialists, but in our view, insurance compulsory medicine can be considered as such. Next question of the Ukrainian national MP, Michael Dobkin. Why did cooperation between the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine stop to develop the Ukrainian Insurance Code? So the idea of drafting and introducing the Insurance Code is absolutely correct, but today it is, in our view, premature. Because there is not yet a legislative and regulatory framework to be codified. In accordance with the recommendations of international organizations and in view of the preparations for Ukraine's accession to the European Union, the Government has decided to draft and adopt a new Ukrainian Insurance Act in accordance with the European Union standards. That is why we invite Mikhail Markovic, who is also a member of the expert advisory board of our commission, to draft the new Ukrainian Insurance Act first, but then the moment will come when we are really ready to draft and adopt the Insurance Code. Next. Next question of Ukrainian national deputy Dobkin Mikhail Markovich. “How does the government react to the initiative to set up a working group for the development and drafting of an insurance code in the Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking?” Positively, we would like this to be a first-stage working group on the drafting of the new Ukrainian Insurance Act, which I have already mentioned. Next question: Ukrainian national deputy Dobkin Mikhail Markovich. “How does the government plan to ensure the liability of such types of insurance, such as the civil liability of motorists and health insurance?” With regard to compulsory liability insurance by the owner of vehicles, everything is legally and legally settled. Only our road patrol service remains to fully comply with the requirements of the law. I think that this will be real if, among other things, parliamentary control is put in place to carry out these responsibilities, it is effective. Well, with regard to compulsory health insurance, I have expressed our position on this issue. Thank you for your attention. We have answered all written questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u56	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking Sergio Vasilovich Burjak. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences, insurers! This discussion is necessary, but it may not be very timely. We offered to do it after the election, because it's a very important and relevant topic. But thank you to Michael Dobkin, as Jaroslav Suhi said, for our fruitful cooperation. I remind you that he is the author and initiator of Government Day. Today, in the public consciousness of the population of Ukraine, public authorities are increasingly perceived as a necessary and important financial mechanism that ensures socio-economic stability and security, the development of entrepreneurship, effective protection of the property interests of citizens and organizations from natural, technological, economic and other risks, and the implementation of State policies for socio-economic protection of society. This is the credit, first of all, of the insurers, but not second of all, the Parliament of this chamber has taken concrete steps towards the development of the insurance market. World practice shows that the insurance sector can accumulate a powerful investment and social reserve. In fact, last year the world’s premiums amounted to over $2.5 trillion. This was particularly convincing in recent events in the United States when billions of thousands of lives were affected within a few weeks. If this situation were to be imagined for a moment when insurance did not exist, millions of people would remain doomed to lack livelihoods, and the number of bankrupt companies would have had a much more severe impact on the population and the economy of the country as a whole. The current insurance market is being shaped in terms of a gradual rise in basic macroeconomic indicators, such as the rise in gross domestic product, the decline in inflation rates, the rise in the stability of the national currency, which enables the dynamic development of the national currency. In addition to positive macroeconomic indicators, there are other preconditions for the development of the national insurance market: a gradual increase in the income of the population, with a trend towards overcoming the low level of capacity to pay, an increase in the interest of legal and natural persons in protecting their property interests, an increase in the number of profitable enterprises, the development of financial services markets, including the stock market and the formation of a national mortgage lending system, the introduction of a non-state pension scheme, and so on. Today, Ukraine is shaping its foreign policy as a state, taking into account the factors of international integration and cooperation. In addition, integration into the global insurance system will not automatically solve all problems. One of the most important issues of market development is its effective regulation. During the years of its existence, Ukraine’s insurance market has achieved significant results in this direction, but there are still many issues that need to be addressed. Among them is the implementation of international standards for the supervision of insurance activities, as stated by Viktor Ivanovich Suslov, the adaptation of national insurance legislation to the requirements, directives and recommendations of the European Union. The recommendation for the successful development of any market is the constant regulatory requirements for its activities. I emphasize the constant regulatory requirements. Therefore, the provision of public policy, which includes the periodic replacement of the regulatory and control body, provides a basis for the insurance market for the stability that banking institutions have today, where the policies of the National Bank of Ukraine are invariable. One of the priorities of the socio-economic policies of the State and the development of the insurance market is personal insurance, long-term life insurance, the participation of insurers in the non-state pension scheme and the introduction of compulsory health insurance, which will help to increase the role of the private sector in the implementation of social programmes and the reduction of public budget expenditure. Tax policy in the country should be an important mechanism for building up the insurance sector in Ukraine. By the way, that's what it looked like from this rostrum. Today, the State and the parties to the insurance market are interested in transparent and tax-free. Among the positive factors is the steady increase in capital and assets, which is a prerequisite for the stable functioning and development of the insurance market. Since 99, the volume of gross insurance payments has increased by about 17 times. The total amount of statutory insurance funds paid is 16.8 times. Gross insurance payments 4.2 times. As a result of sequential actions, both in the field of regulation and supervision at the end of 2004, positive developments took place in early 2005. Payments reached 14.2 percent in the first half of 2005. To compare 7.9 in 2004. Capital outflows have been halted abroad following panic operations, and the company's capitalization has increased. The amount of the scare payments from across the border in the first half of 2005 has decreased significantly, both in absolute and relative terms. It should also be noted that if 61 per cent of insurance payments under non-resident insurance contracts were financial risks in the first half of 2004, it was about a billion dollars, 950, to be exact, then in the first half of 2005, the proportion of financial risks in the total amount of non-resident insurance was not more than 0.7 per cent, i.e. about one and a half million dollars. In order to continue to develop the insurance market in Ukraine and to prevent it from being accused of unwarranted activity with regard to the flow of funds abroad and other negative phenomena, it is necessary to further strengthen the national emergency market and improve its supervision. These phenomena in the insurance system are positive for both the sector and the economy as a whole. A major breakthrough in the development of the national insurance market was the adoption last year of the Ukrainian Law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. This type of insurance is socially significant and provides an opportunity to protect the interests of both drivers and pedestrians. But full implementation of the law is possible only if the drivers are fully covered by this type of insurance. Unfortunately, we can't do without the help of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Committee on Finance and Banking is now working in a number of ways to improve insurance legislation. First. This is a reduction in the number of compulsory types of insurance. Now the corresponding bill is on the committee for the second reading. It is important to leave the liability of only those types of insurance that are socially significant and for which payments are made, since most of the current compulsory species collect the costs but pay less than 1 percent for them. Clearly, such insurance is not necessarily necessary. Another bill, which is also being prepared for second reading, is a draft of the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on powers in the field of regulation of financial services markets]] The specified draft law establishes the mandate of the serviFinpouses for the implementation of State regulations and the supervision of insurance services in accordance with the basic tasks assigned to the commission by the Ukrainian Financial Services Act and the national regulation of financial services markets. In particular, it is suggested that part of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the regulation of insurance activities be placed on the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets. An urgent issue is the improvement of legislation from certain aspects of insurance. First of all, these are changes to legislation aimed at ensuring the provision of services to the authorities. Secondly, it is necessary to amend the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act and the Ukrainian Insurance Act on the right of the insurer to free choice of insurers with a view to ensuring the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. Unsolved today are also the issues of the participation of insurance companies in the area of non-state pension insurance, the legal status of insurance intermediaries, the replacement of compulsory government insurance with direct payments from the state budget that we are in fact. The solution to these questions is part of the committee’s immediate plans. And we're having an active discussion here with Valery Borisovich Aloshin. I think it's going to be a result. Sadly, there are problems that cannot be solved quickly and painlessly. One is the mature introduction of compulsory health insurance. While acknowledging the Commission's positive role in regulating financial services markets in the development of the insurance market in Ukraine, we would like to support proposals to increase the level of remuneration of the employees of the service, to finance the electronic system of the assembly, to process and analyse the reporting of non-bank financial institutions, to ensure the participation of the holder in the international service. [[I think it'll find its place in the draft decision.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u58	Let me finish. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u59	Wait a minute. We also positively appreciate the possibility of creating legal conditions for the financing of services through the implementation of the financial regulators' funding system at the expense of supervision payments. This will contribute to better qualified and effective supervision of financial services markets. According to the Committee, the strategic objectives of developing insurance in Ukraine are: the creation of an attractive and affordable insurance market for insurance providers; the conversion of insurance to an effective part of the market economy that protects legal and physical persons; the improvement of the efficiency of public regulation of insurance activities; further legislative and regulatory insurance; the approximation of the legal basis of domestic insurance to world standards; the expansion of the investment potential of insurers in the interests of the economy of the State; the development of socially significant insurance services, primarily linked to life, health, productivity and additional pension of a natural person; the promotion of the level of scientific and human security of insurance activities; the creation of a high-quality insurance distribution network through professional insurance agents; the achievement of a high competitiveness of Ukrainian insurance companies; the creation of a positive image and confidence in the international insurance sector; and the active participation in the international insurance sector; Finally, I would like to draw your attention to injustice, such as the absence of employees in the insurance sector of my professional holiday. [[in quotes]] Therefore, taking into account the important role of the insurance system and the significant contribution of workers in this field to the economic development of the state and the financial stability of the country, we propose to disrupt the establishment in Ukraine of a professional holiday for workers in the insurance sector. A draft Supreme Council decision on the status and prospects for the development of insurance services in Ukraine has been prepared by the Committee. It shows the position of the Supreme Council on the prospects of the insurance market and the role of the government in its development. I'll give you the order. We suggest that it be further developed, complemented, and given the outcome of the discussion, submitted to the Supreme Council for its consideration in the coming sessional week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we've had a break. Maybe let's do 15 recorded. 45 about 50 minutes and no breaks. No notes? Then, please, 45 minutes to discuss, three minutes. They'll come from factions and then from the people. Please, Boris Andresuk, faction of the People's Party. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u61	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Boris Andresyuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The insurance market today has many problems. And we felt that in the report. So within the rules, I'm only going to stop at one, but it's very important. On 1 January 2005, the Ukrainian Act on Compulsory Insurance against Civil and Legal Liability of Owners of Foreign Means of Transport became effective. This law has become a logical extension of a number of domestic regulatory instruments aimed at providing compensation for the damage caused by life, health and property of road traffic victims. Working in the legal field and managing the area, as well as establishing an appropriate tax system here, have enabled the development of Ukrainian insurance markets. And then they opened up to Ukraine access to the international system Green Card, one of the reliable and effective forms of compulsory insurance. The practice of implementing the above law has revealed a number of issues that need further consideration. First, as the folk wisdom says, until the thunder strikes, the man will not cross. As it turned out, an uncontrolled case turned out to be nobody’s. After all, the number of car owners who have purchased mandatory liability insurance policies is not enough. So far, in August of this year, the Ukrainian government has committed the IMF to strengthen this control. But how can this really be done under the conditions of reorganization, frankly, in the elevated state in which State inspection is now taking place. And there's a terrible picture on the roads that is very well illustrated by statistics. And in the worst situation, as usual, an average citizen found himself. There is hope that the situation will change with the restructuring of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine. The People’s Party faction therefore stresses the need to accelerate the adoption of the relevant law, which provides for the normalization of control over the availability of insurance policies and the special signs of a well-established pattern of contract making. In time and in unification, only a sample of the internal authorities' information on the circumstances of the accident, which to date has not been approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Clearly, processual delays hinder the operation of insurance payments to victims, and accordingly, fair complaints and complaints about the imperfections of the cost-recovery technology take place in all institutions. All of them are late, especially the Cabinet of Ministers, who did not bring its legal acts into line with the law, and then not a renewed list of paid services provided by the departments, because there are no corresponding changes to the joint orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u62	Thank you. Vitaly Homutinnik, faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”. Prepare Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, we all understand the vital importance of the insurance sector for the economy of our country. Insurance has always been an effective financial tool for the sustainable development and security of the national economy. It's a fairly young sector, but as we've seen, this sector has very good development prospects. Mr. Suslov's report shows a number of optimistic market trends, namely, the recent increase in insurance payments, the increase in the capitalization of insurance companies, the decline in the amount of questionable insurance abroad, and so on. These phenomena are positive for both the sector and the economy in Ukraine as a whole. The committee is now planning to do, adopt a series of legislative acts to strengthen financial control, strengthen the Commission on Financial Services Regulation and make legislative initiatives that will have a certain development of the insurance market in our country. This is, first of all, the adoption in the second reading of the Ukrainian Act on the Limitation of Compulsory Types of Insurance, secondly, of the Act on the licensing of reinsurance activities. We have to focus our efforts on health insurance, but I think it's going to be hard in this Parliament already, because the election campaign is a very controversial and global issue. Perhaps the next Parliament has, first and foremost, to deal with this issue of health insurance and, in general, to look at this area. Life insurance issues and other legislative acts that today are intended to push the market for insurance and development in Ukraine. Regarding the issue of insurance taxation, there is a lot of talk about what needs to be changed, because there is an optimisation of taxation and much more. We see that virtually all of the outflows of capital abroad are covered in the Baltic countries, Moldova, Russia, and we see that the level of payment of insurance companies is increasing. Therefore, we believe that, at the end of the year, a new team must come to see these issues from a different perspective and consider this important issue at the end of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, faction of the SDPU. Prepare Anatoly Semenoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear radio listeners, my countrymen's dignitaries. Gregory Kaletnik, faction of SDPU. This year’s insurance market indicators show a distasteful result. The insurance premiums received by insurers in the first half of 2005 amount to only $6.5 billion. Consider: Compared to the first half of 2004, the figure fell by 30 percent. Insurance companies have also decreased by nearly 10 percent. It should be noted that the process of reducing insurance premiums and reducing the amount of assets went hand in hand with the increase in insurance campaigns. We consider such a trend to be very dangerous for the insurance market in Ukraine because it shows a significant financial weakening of insurance campaigns and a reduction in their real ability to make insurance payments. How come, by the way, Mr. Suslov isn't here trying to explain it in a different way? It should be noted that the main issue of today is the search for ways out of this crisis, which has taken place in the insurance market during the period of the activities of the orange authorities and the creation of legislative and legal conditions for strengthening domestic insurance campaigns and bringing the sphere of insurance services in Ukraine to a level that will be adequate to the present-day needs of the Ukrainian economy. In our view, it is very important that the settlement of financial services markets in Ukraine is dealt with separately and on its own by a state commission that has enough weight to deal with the problems mentioned above. Therefore, it is a matter of principle whether the State Commission’s regulation of the markets in financial services and the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets with the National Bank of Ukraine is now being merged. We find such an offer untimely. The Ukrainian insurance system is, in fact, still very weak. An important indicator, such as the level of insurance payments, which is one of the main consumer market parameters of the insurance market, was 7.9 percent, about 10 times less than in developed countries. In macroeconomic terms, it is important to note that too modest is part of the insurance services in shaping the country's GDP. Moreover, this year this figure fell to 2003 levels. We believe that the Supreme Council should step up its involvement in the development of the insurance market in Ukraine, as well as by monitoring the activities of the State Commission in regulating financial services markets, and by establishing an appropriate legal framework for insurance services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u66	Thank you. Anatoly Seminoga, faction of Block Timoshenko. Prepare Valeria Aloshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The insurance market in Ukraine today is one of the leading economies in our country. Moreover, the market is the most dynamic in terms of economic growth. During the period of our nation's establishment, a lot of work has been done to regulate and stimulate the development of the insurance market, overcome negative trends in the insurance market, such as the use of insurance to minimize income tax payments; low payout rates; and the flow of capital abroad beyond insurance schemes; and so forth. The positive developments in the insurance market in Ukraine also include the introduction of compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners, which provides for compensation for the damage caused by life, health and property of victims in the use of land transport equipment in Ukraine. The introduction of compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners is particularly important in the context of low population payability and its inability to afford full and timely coverage to third parties of material and physical damage. Despite the considerable amount of work that has been done in the preparation and development of the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Responsibility of Land Transporters, there are some contradictions - standards that make legislation unclear, encourage monopolies of insurance companies and contribute to excessive financial burden on the population of our state. In particular, the widespread spread of compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners is hampered by a large amount of basic payment, making this type of insurance inaccessible to most citizens of our country. Insurance companies should be partners of transport owners to cover possible risks rather than create conditions to increase social tensions in society. The basic size of the insurance payment should become companies on their own, resulting from their experience in the compulsory insurance market, the civil liability of land transport owners. The government authorities should set only a marginal amount of basic insurance to prevent insurance companies from conspiring to set monopolistic prices and percentages of services. The development of the mandatory civil liability insurance market for transport equipment should be accompanied by as much involvement as possible by all insurance market entities. Today, there are enough strong barriers to entering the market for insurance companies from small and medium-sized businesses. Such obstacles are the high cost of licenses and the high contribution to the motor transport office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u68	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Valerius Aloshin, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party Prepare Sergey Ivanovich Droguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! To my conviction, the government's Day will give some impetus to the future work of Parliament, despite the fact that parliamentarians have not shown much attention to this topic today. At the same time, I would like to point out that the very fact that the Government's Day on this topic is a demonstration of the potential and potential of the Ukrainian insurance market. If a few years ago it has been difficult even to put this issue before Parliament, today we all feel that Ukraine’s financial markets and, in particular, the insurance market needs to be discussed immediately and in terms of its future prospects. What would I like to point out? In particular, I fully share what was said in the report, particularly in the part that is probably one of the risk elements. The overall risk of developing the insurance market in Ukraine is that insufficient, inadequate financing by the State Commission for regulating financial services markets can cause serious market failures. That is why we need to discuss this principle in Parliament in the context of the State Budget, and in this approach we need to be guided by the following: that the wages paid by civil servants should be adequate or competitive in relation to the wages they receive in market subjects. Because it looks crazy when two or three years ago a person worked on a state commission and went to market, because they're going to pay 5 or 10 times more. It's different. What else would I like to point out? More than two years ago, basic laws were passed that describe the module of Ukraine’s future pension system. And unfortunately, today we are engaged in an unproductive, I think, discussion about the role of insurance companies in the non-state pension market. The legislator answered. He says that pension schemes with defined contributions should be in place in Ukraine. And that's the trend that the whole world shares today, that's what other people want. Insurance companies can provide products with defined payouts. And it's a more risky product. And, in my opinion, we do need to create now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u70	Thank you. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction. The next one should be Tkalenko, but I have doubts as to whether he was authorized by the faction. Who? Show him to me, please. Please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Honorable government officials and all who have come to consider this matter! I want to say that in our environment this problem has not caused much excitement and attention, as is evident from the number of people present in this room, since it has not caused such interest and by the government, because there are also few government circles in that bed. But this is still an important question. I want to say that insurance is one of the most profitable types of economic activity. And those figures, called Viktor Ivanovich, increased by 30 percent there, double each year the service of life and health insurance. All of this indicates the convenience of transferring capital into this sector. The insurance sector is becoming one of the most impoverished of the Ukrainian population, 80 percent of those living in Ukraine. So given all these circumstances, I think we need to change the methodology ourselves, the concept of insurance legislation. Now it's all about ensuring the interests of insurance companies, which are the owners of the capital that went into this activity. And the challenge is to provide for the population's interests, and primarily the poorest part, and primarily the labour force, which is 80 percent or more of all who live in today's Ukraine. So it seems to me that because of some adjustments, we are not going to be able to completely solve this problem. We need to build some separate procedures on the basis of the main course. I want to say that we have a process in Ukraine. The process of poverty continues, and under the UN criteria, our country is deadlocked. Our country's taken to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u72	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Please, Alexander Tkalenko, People's Movement faction. Prepare Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u73	Alexander Tkalenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear listeners and present! Of course, the question that we are considering today has a remarkable one. In view of the low level of confidence on the part of the broad population to non-state financial institutions, it seems appropriate to support the proposals of the State Commission for regulation of financial services markets for strengthening civil liability and guaranteeing the market participants in insurance services. This will certainly increase the level of trust both in insurance companies and in nonstate pension funds. To this end, I would like to propose to the Supreme Council Regulation in paragraph 4, which speaks of the joint work of the Ministry of Justice, together with the merger of professional participants in the insurance market. And another amendment is the offer. It relates to paragraph 3 of subsection 3.1 of the Regulation, which refers to only one segment of the financial market, to the insurance risks of granting subsidies from the State budget for partial compensation of insurance payments for the purpose of actual introduction of risk insurance in the agricultural sector. I wouldn't single out just one segment in the entire insurance market and I would suggest either this item deletes, or I would add a question, i.e. changes to legislation make it complex. This will also apply to insurance medicine and other segments of the insurance market. In general, the decree is acceptable and we will support its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Behind him is Solomon’s Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. I would like to emphasize that in this room we are now discussing, not social assistance, but social insurance. Because we often have these two concepts mixed together. And what I'm trying to say is that social insurance is basically the source of the fact that a person doesn't feel like a person who's given a tax. Because she was her entire age and while she was working, she was paying money and the money was solid. If there's a solid person's money involved in what he's been involved in, so he can be calm when he gets his pension, when he can experience unemployment, when he's had an accident, and he gets it. And what I'm saying is, this is where all of Europe lives and I'm going to remind you that just when Bismarck tried to take the socialist initiative, that they insisted all the time on the need to introduce social insurance, that's when he introduced it as der., then social life as a necessary and national standard. You know, today, we've heard, we're going through four funds right now. No, there's some kind of uncertainty about medical insurance, and so I think there's two things I need to do here. First. We still have to look at this, the determination, how to stay away from health insurance, it's important, because when it's said that it's only for the budget to provide medical services, it's not real, and we feel it today when we go to the medical facility. There must be some other measure. And Europe is already in the midst of social-democracy and governance, to work on these topics. That's the first question. And the second. We need to see how we can continue to deal with how we provide pension insurance. You know there's something moving around here. Because many of our population have the need to pay their pension. But we do sometimes find that it is somehow redistributed lopsided. If there are, you know, some of us have those who pay, regulars, it's a need for insurance that's on a special regime and so on. And these are incomes that we have about 50 people working for an average Ukrainian pensioner. When it's much less in other countries. We also need to do this in our national legislation so that there is some uniform distribution of opportunities for this kind of insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u76	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Behind him is the Chernobyl Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, although perhaps my address, it is a joke. In the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, some 10 national deputies are present. And I don't understand what we're doing here today, Adam Ivanovich. Because even if there is no quorum under all the rules, there is no need to hold such days of government and such parliamentary hearings. And this is a matter that needs to be settled. And above all, I am addressing the Ukrainian national MP Dobkin, who initiated these hearings and who himself is absent from these hearings. What are we doing, Your Honor? We've heard information from the government of capitalist ministers about the state of the art and prospects of developing the insurance market in Ukraine. But first of all, I want to go to our television and radio audiences and greet them with their anniversary, the 88th anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution, which we Communists and all the working people celebrated yesterday, and we continue to celebrate today. Now to the insurance market. What is it? What kind of insurance services, if, in terms of poverty, 80 percent of the population doesn't have enough money even for what they need. So the agenda that is being considered is aimed at satisfying the insurance needs of the newly born small, medium and large bourgeoisie, and by the size of the population today, it is estimated to be only 15, at a maximum of 20% of the total. So let's talk about who we care about. About the man who works or about him. Capital? There's nothing going on here for a small Ukrainian. The best insurance for a worker is the return of his stolen property, factories, factories, steamships, and so forth. This is what Peter Simonnck's bill on the nationalization of basic industries and groups of national members of our faction is aimed at. We stand for the return of Soviet power, the power of workers and workers. And this will be the best guarantee and the best insurance service for a man's work. Dear fellow countrymen, you have, forgive me for this, perhaps a harsh word, twice, if you vote as you voted in the previous election of the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when 300 million out of 450 deputies were brought into the session hall, you are not getting any light again. Unite around the left front and the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ours will be a victory and we will solve insurance issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u78	Yuri Petrovich, I support your observation that we are being painted in the hall, but according to the Constitution, there is no quorum for the session, and 270 national deputies are currently registered in the hall. Please, Leonid Czernowetský, and he is given his word, Mother, that is, 6 minutes. He will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u79	High - sounding TVs and radio audiences, and. I am very grateful that Adam Ivanovich added three minutes to my three minutes. I mean, the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernewicki. I want to say about the main problem that exists in Ukraine, I'm going to say that the question that we're hearing today is very important and very appropriate today after my speech to those who will listen to our television. I want to say that the main thing that has not been resolved by democratic power in Ukraine is the protection of those officials who are at State work. It's just a “freeway” when existing funds receive social insurance money and no one, either from militias or from judges, from pensioners who have served the state for the rest of their lives, gets no money from any of these funds. I'm going to say, how does Ukraine differ from all European states? It's different because today it wasn't in the Supreme Council that government officials, that's the main thing, they're very many in Ukraine, they don't have any protection from the state they deserve with all their lives. It's a very large amount of money that's stolen literally from their pockets. I've seen a lot of people burn down in the house, and there are other problems, they have to get protection from the state, they fill in rows of bumblebees every day. That's the problem. I believe that today’s leadership on insurance matters in Ukraine, and I respect those who represent this institution today, it will be taken into account. We don't need a law on insurance fraud. We need laws that will make government officials need their own country, that will make pensioners and those who have literally breathed their entire lives into their own country, respected citizens of Ukraine. And that must be heard by anyone who takes the Supreme Council seriously. This is what we have not done in 14 years of independent Ukraine. And that's a very big problem. I can list hundreds of professions, yes, which immediately require that they receive money from social funds, both firefighters and policemen, and anyone who risks their lives in their daily work. It's nothing. Yeah. These are pensioners who have worked under 30 to 40 years for their country. And that's a problem that hasn't come up. Indeed, the State of Ukraine can become strong, independent and one that will be enjoyed by its fellow citizens only if all my comments, including other deputies, are taken into account in the insurance field. The stronger the insurance campaigns, especially those of the State, the better every Ukrainian will live, the more he will receive money from various government budgets that are unknown today, where they are located, the more they are managed. I don't know who's resting in hundreds of sanatoriums, but not those who have built our Ukraine and made it a free and independent country. That's just bullshit! I want you, Victor Ivanovich, to learn that. And the main problem is not to fight cockroaches. We have to fight them every day. And, of course. There are a million cases to be evaluated. But the most important thing is to get the money that is stolen from the common people and those who serve the State out of the country. Because any government official around the world is, as soon as he enters public service, he's proud that he gets from the state the same insurance payments he can count on. This is very important! And of course, as always, I turn to everyone who listens to the transmission: call your older parents -- it's very important, it's better than insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u80	Jaroslav Suhi, please. He's been followed by Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, members of the government, are invited! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to address the issues of improving the insurance market by providing conditions for population well-being and sustained economic growth. That is, you cannot view the development of insurance as an end in itself, as a means of enriching the narrow circle of persons and the corrupt satisfaction of sales officials. World experience shows that with the support of all branches of government, insurance companies can raise the standard of living because they can benefit households, promote the development of small and medium -sized enterprises, agriculture. But this is, as it were, in theory, ideal. If in 2003, 2004 -- we saw the hope that improving the insurance market will motivate the Yanukovich government to work substantively on the real growth of the economy, of prosperity, we are now dealing with a host of problems that have worsened since the return to power of orange demagogue romances with a low level of professional preparation and an excessive level of morbid ambition. Unfortunately, the second seems to be up-to-date, but with the same populist, financial and economic bloc, the government doesn't understand the extent to which the underdevelopment of insurance is damaging to society. This is about the lack of awareness of the domestic insurance sector as an important priority of economic and social policy as a factor in combating poverty, increasing the well-being of the people. The low cost of the labor force, the tinnishing of wages that are now dominant and returning again, are not allowing us to make full use of the potential of insurance to improve our standard of living. The increase in debt from wages and those meager salaries that return to the budget area generally puts the cross on the insurance line. That's why we think that the role of the state is not just to improve the content of the surveillance functions of the insurance market in order to provide opportunities for fraud and crime during the transition period. We need to be alert, and this is what the post office that comes to the committee is talking about, the imperfections of the insurance audit procedure, which the new old authorities are like, which has turned into an institution or destabilizing the work of the insurance companies, or the punishment for political sympathy. Countless examples. We believe that checks should be strictly regulated, check procedures, deadlines, reasons for continuing checks, and the responsibility and competence of the auditors themselves. We have a debt to society and markets, I mean the Supreme Council. Over the years, we have been unable to pass a law on State social insurance and make the necessary changes to the basic law. And this is because now voluntary health insurance in the country is demonstrating the effectiveness of insurance. By the way, there are some interesting suggestions about the possible activity of the medical and insurance office, the medical pool. It was done by insurance companies in Ukraine, including Zaporozhye, Motor Guarantee and others. On the other hand, there was a desire to introduce insurance at the Ministry of Health. In short, we are all things to work on. And I call on both the government and the Supreme Council to do this kind of work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u82	Vladimir Cherniak. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u83	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! The insurance market in Ukraine is monopolized and regulated. It has virtually no conscientious competition. In connection with this concept, there is a suggestion that the insurance market in Ukraine needs to be demonized, deregulated and liberalized. Now we're talking about some practical problems. There are mandatory types of insurance that need to be reduced to the minimum necessary: military, police, miners, and civilian insurance of transporters. We need to develop insurance medicine and make it compulsory. There is a problem with the effective allocation of insurance, life insurance, and so forth. Is the problem resolved by 5 percent in the statutory fund of enterprises or 5 percent in real estate? It would be appropriate to allow solid insurance companies to collect pensions. There is a problem with the distribution of investment income. By law, it should be distributed every year. It would be appropriate to transfer the investment income to the insurance company. Now I want to put on a bold accent. A large part of insurance payments received by insurance companies are related to the availability of different avoidance and money laundering schemes. The share of these insurance operations is 70 to 80 percent. As insurance payments increase, financial transactions of questionable nature increase. By not focusing on this subject, let us briefly stop at the first five insurance companies and their indicators. The first five leaders of the insurance market looked like this in 2004: the maximum village of Manchenka in the Kharkiv region received 1.7 billion dollars of insurance payments; the Ukrainian Financial Insurance Alliance – 1.3 billion; the Oscar – 1.2 billion; the Crowd – more than 1 billion; the Egida – 0.9 billion dollars. [[The City of Kiev]] [[Donetsk]] [[Kiev]] [[Kiev]] At the same time, the first and fourth did not make insurance payments at all, but the others did. And the sum of others was a meager amount of insurance payments. Here's the main reason for the critically low level of insurance payments in the insurance market in Ukraine. I think the main task of the financial regulator's a.i. right now is to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. Prepare Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u85	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. I would like to stress that really, you know, the relevance of these parliamentary ones. Government. The days of government or parliamentary hearings that we hold in the walls of Parliament are determined not only by the audience, by the radio, by the television, but also by the presence of MPs. It is a low number of deputies who are present here, which, nevertheless, raises the emphasis, raises confidence in similar measures on Government Day and parliamentary hearings. And I'll point out, they've already said that the author of the decision didn't show up. Well, I think he's more interested now in somehow forming his transition from the Esdeans to the Party of Regions. Perhaps this has something to do with it. But it's still on the subject. He's coming over to you. And I'd like to make a point on the subject. What is the problem with the insurance market in Ukraine anyway? The main problem for me is, you know, the most fundamental thing about fear. This comes under the root of “fear”. I mean, if you're afraid of something, how do you want to go and provide for yourself? In other areas, though, it is a provision. Make sure you're not afraid of what's going to happen. It's something that's been said that you can't leave your car, you have to protect yourself from fear. Well. So I would like to point out that psychologically, even in Ukraine, it is necessary to change this attitude, because by now the insurance has not come to the village. That's the city's problem. We should not forget that today there is also intensive production, and the development of enterprises in various fields, and not even agriculture. It's just a lot. It goes to the village because there's cheaper and more affordable labor. So for me, it's not even that much of a legislative basis. Here, I think Parliament will be in solidarity with the government as well, but the program I need seems to me that the commission is very good, but a government program is needed to ensure that the insurance system is implemented, so that the strike committees are not formed, because there will be mandatory insurance for car owners. You know, when Moscow gets on the road to Lviv-Kiev, it's scary here, don't be afraid, don't be afraid when he leaves, it's a sign of fear. Hence, one who is unable to pay for insurance services should in principle consider whether to use car transportation at all. But persistence and consistency must be consolidated. Once again, politics cannot be built just to protect the interests of insurance companies, because for me, the most important task of insurance companies is to protect the interests of customers, and this, I think, should be shared by both the government and Parliament. Because if we are in such halls, in this number of national deputies to make the days of the government, the proper attitude is to both the days of the Government and what we are talking about here will be adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u86	Thank you. Perhaps you meant that Mercedes, or Moscow, is afraid of the Mercedes when going on the route, is the right thing to do. Please, Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u87	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies and radio listeners. As we know, the main function of the insurance market in the financial system is the real coverage of the risks of economic and social life. In many countries, the insurance market is an important sector of national economies, providing a redistribution of eight dozen gross domestic products. Costs accumulated through insurance are a source of large investment, a source of government domestic debt, and so forth. In Ukraine, however, the insurance market has redistributed about 3-4% of GDP in recent years. Until recently, the growth rate of insurance payments had been pre-eminent with regard to the growth rate of insurance payments. This is a testimony not only to the high pace of market development but to the inadequacy of its social functions. There is a steady decline in the quality of insurance services. Customers who are not so - called insurance companies and individuals often face problems in receiving insurance payments. This is especially true of farmers, transport owners, and Ukrainian tourists. At the same time, according to the number of types of insurance, including compulsory insurance, Ukraine is significantly ahead of the civilized countries where the insurance market has developed over the centuries. As a result of the universal poverty of the population and the low level of trust in insurance companies that characterize our society, only about 10 percent of the risks in Ukraine are in general insured. While in most developed countries this figure is 90-95 percent. The specificity of the Ukrainian market is that it is involved in shadow schemes of money-laundering, the dissipation of enterprise funds, and often serves as a cover for other types of economic activity. The lack of transparency of the insurance market, the lack of control and financial reporting, the unreasonable use of reserves by insurance companies have been premeditated by the distortion of insurance deposits, the formation of virtual statutory funds and reserves. The State’s policy of developing insurance remains inconsistent and often contradictory. Its efforts are mainly focused on controlling and fiscal functions. While information-analyst and stimulating functions are virtually failing to develop. Special attention is needed in particular to analyse the consequences of the active expansion of foreign companies, including Russian insurance companies, into the Ukrainian insurance market. It also requires a substantial improvement in the legislative framework for insurance and certainly needs to focus on expanding the investment opportunities of insurers, which are still being used very poorly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u88	Thank you. Victor Ivanovich, please, three minutes. Someone's cell phone needs an answer. Give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I would like to thank the Supreme Council for the attention given to the analysis of the development of the insurance market. All that has been expressed by the people's deputies will be examined and made by the Government in order to take your suggestions and ideas into account. In response to some of the comments made, I would like to point out the following. Some reduction in the insurance market this year, as I said earlier, was due to a reduction in tax optimization schemes, a reduction of $2 billion in premiums is a reduction in financial risk insurance, which should be considered normal. The problem of the possibility of moving to a single regulator has not been raised in my statement, I believe that Ukraine is not yet ready to do so, but since Ukraine is interested in an effective regulator of the financial services market and will be able to do so, this issue can be asked if the actual budget is not able to provide sufficient funding for the regulator in order to have truly better professionals working in it. Then the issue of the governor's accession to the National Bank of Ukraine, in our view, may be raised and has the right to debate. Comments made on too much basic civil liability insurance payment. The payment was calculated by the actuaries, by the tariff experts, and it is not our commission and no one else under the law has the right to question that value, is it? Another point is that after a while, given the reality of the market situation, it can be recalculated and possible to approve another payment. The idea expressed by the MP of the Seminomist to establish a separate base payment by companies is absolutely correct. In many countries, this is the case when the market is already being set up and tariffs on this type of insurance are being regulated. Next. I would like to conclude by saying that our commission is not just regulating the insurance market. We are also addressing the new, crucial tasks of the country: the establishment of a non-State pension scheme, the establishment of a mortgage lending system, which is the basis, among other things, for the solution of the housing problem in the country, we have decided to introduce supervision of financial institutions, which are public law institutions, the funds mentioned today in the statements of deputies that accumulate funds, provide financial services, public institutions. A former government institution that accredited innovative projects and a number of other institutions should be monitored. We are prepared to inform the Supreme Council on all these important issues for our State, we are prepared to continue the work that has begun today by meeting with the committees, factions and providing you with all the information you need. Believe me, you'll find that the regulator's work for the country is going to be paid off and paid off. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-08-m0.u90	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think that everyone who witnessed our Government Day was convinced that we were discussing a very serious issue and discussing it seriously. And we need to thank the head of the State Commission on Financial Services, and the head of the Committee, Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, that they have come quite professionally to prepare this issue. I'm sure we've all been quite alerted by the figures here, 23 percent and 77 percent. These are extraordinary, extraordinary profits. It's a shame we haven't talked about where they're going or how they're going, and what the budget has to do with it. And they did not mention such a disaster that perhaps millions of our fellow citizens have suffered, such as trusts. Because it's about the same trusts that, as it were, loved to steal and stole more than a million jobs, jobs, and citizens' expenses. And of course, with this kind of revenue, I think you can understand why we have so many laws that go through the Supreme Council for so long, because there's probably lobbyist interest in those who do these services, and they don't want to make laws that work for the benefit of human beings. So, as it were, insurance is for the benefit of the State, so that the funds are appropriate to the government’s budget, not only to the benefit of black shadow bonds. Clearly, we're going to need it here, and the profile committee has been talking, and perhaps if we vote with you on the right decision for Government Day, because today we don't have the strength to vote on this decision, we should take that into account with you. There have been mutual accusations and fair accusations that no attention has been given by the government to this issue, nor by the Supreme Council in the person of the vast majority of our colleagues. But that must be an excuse. Perhaps the government can be justified by being extremely serious about the second reading of the State Budget. Because we've given them tasks that they won't be able to solve for a long time. And our colleagues may understand that they are engaged in risk insurance for future parliamentary elections. This is probably how we can explain each other's attention to this question. And in general, I think that the reflection after this Government Day is going to be serious enough for us, and we're going to put it in the right order. I thank you for participating in the morning session, where we discussed the issue of Government Day. Next parliamentary session. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on November 15th. Now we're working on committees and factions this week. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
