ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Conciliation Council is continuing with the participation of the Prime Minister and some members of the Cabinet of Ministers. The leaders of factions and parliamentary groups are looking for ways to solve problems and packages, and so forth, to vote for the bills relating to the WTO regarding construction and the urgent measures and proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers. There's an interested conversation coming up, and we're going to continue our sessions with you. Our meeting. So please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:05:54]] There were 416 national deputies registered, and the evening session of the Supreme Council was publicized. Before we continue to discuss the issues, please let me make an announcement. In accordance with the articles of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy" and the relevant articles of the Rules, I hereby announce the withdrawal from the Democratic Initiatives Group of the People's Deputies of the People's Deputies of Saint Dmitry and its membership in the faction of the People's Party of Ukraine. I remind the Democratic Group again. More loyally, the Democratic Initiatives MP's group is that there is very little time left until two weeks when they have to fill their ranks. Now that I'm not mistaken, they only have 10 national deputies left. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005 is being complied with. [[on the establishment of a State Mortgage Fund]] Consideration of the bill by summary procedure. Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovic. Please. Five minutes. Prepare the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You have been presented with a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. [[on 50 per cent of the sale of non-agricultural land to the State Budget special fund]] The implementation of this bill will allow for the formation of a land mortgage fund, and this, by the way, has been the subject of discussion and consideration of an entire bill package at the morning meeting, about 20 million dollars in size, and the beginning of land mortgage lending in various areas of social life, including the agricultural sector. The mortgage institution doesn't cooperate with those who take credit, it cooperates with the available possibilities of issuing securities and putting them on the market, then working with commercial banks that directly work with their customers to enable them to receive long-term low-cost loans. The loss of local budgets from the implementation of the bill in the current year will be compensated by exceeding the planned amounts of the proceeds of the sale of non-agricultural land. Ukraine's 2005 Budget for Ukraine plans to receive revenues from the sale of land for non-agricultural destinations of about 500 million dollars. More than 350 million dollars are expected at the end of the year. The figures confirm that honourable national deputies that a number of budget programmes planned by the respective communities on the basis of revenues from the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes will be carried out. Dear National Deputies! Given the importance of this bill, please support the bill. Dear Adam Ivanovich! My report is complete, and I am ready to report on the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u3	Thank you. There is no short-circuit procedure, so please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u4	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u5	That's too bad. Yes, please, from the profile committee, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna. Yes. There is, please, Ludmila Pavlovna, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u6	Honorable colleagues, some unappreciative fate today, that all the laws of the government simply have to be criticized. Good ideas, nice suggestions, but unfortunately, their legislative embodiment, in practice, does not withstand any criticism. What is proposed by the bill? The government wants to include the corresponding amount of land from the sale of land for public property, and the same amount of money from the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes to the special state budget fund. It's kind of a good idea, but what does this look like today's legislation? This means that, in fact, the state budget wants to rob local budgets and absorb the funds that the territorial communities now have. In fact, it's totally out of line with legislation. In addition, the text of a law that amends existing laws provides that only 40% of the local budgets will be allocated to the sale of non-silling land. And today's law determines that these costs should be in local budgets of 90%. There is a balance between government and local budgets. It should be borne in mind that article 1 does not make appropriate changes in terms of total income and expenditure. Such changes are also not made in addition to the law. This applies to Appendix 1 and Appendix 3 in the definition of the amount of corresponding revenue and expenditure under the special fund. Unfortunately, the Committee on Budgetary Questions cannot support such a bill. Once again, we confirm that his idea is not bad, his idea is supported, but such an order of formation of a special fund is not consistent with existing legislation. So at the committee meeting, we decided to do the following, and the draft law proposed by the government, at number 7487, is proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u7	Fortunately or sadly, factions and government leaders speak of quite another matter. Thank you. Have a seat, please. 12 minutes, two for, two for. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin will say that he will be supported by Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u8	George Carmazin, the Party of Native Defenders, is very pleased to see here the head of the committee, who has supported the revolution from all over the government, but unfortunately, I will say the unsatisfying words about the bill in all my respect for it. My words will come out of the fact that I respect this document. This document is called the Constitution of Ukraine. I remind you that Article 142 provides for the material and financial basis of local self - government to be found in movable and immovable property, the income of local budgets, other funds, land, natural resources, which are property of territorial communities, villages, towns, cities, urban areas, as well as objects of their common property. Well, here's the idea of passing it to a special. remove from local self-government budgets, transfer 50 per cent of the cost of selling non-agricultural land held in municipal property to the holding special fund. What's that called? I call this a brutal violation of article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I also agree with what Ludmila Suprun said, because the lands that are in the country's non-agriculture assignment are also owned by the state, and the reverend, the income base of the local budgets will be reduced by 200 million dollars. And I want to ask the government, do you realize that you're not going to fund exactly what needs to go into local budgets, or don't you understand? Whether or not you are funding education or you are funding health care and everything else. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have already adopted today a bill called 7484, which can be said, figuratively, to stimulate foreign business in Ukraine. It was so stupid, I haven't seen her since. In the final positions, the Law on Taxation of Business Income was once again amended. And it says, quote, because that's to be quoted. Today, the Prime Minister is gathering deputies there in the Cabinet of Ministers at the club, and of course I will not go there, for even Lazarenko has not thought of gathering deputies, and he has always come here by himself, and no Prime Minister has ever thought of it. So I'm going to quote, "No taxes are taxed, nor are the incomes received by non-residents as interest or income on mortgage securities that are issued by the resident." So all the revenue that gets as interest or income on mortgaged securities won't even be paid by interest. Think of it, Your Honor, for whom we are enacting laws. I'd like us to adopt laws for the Ukrainian people that protect this constitution today, and I'd like to pay attention to the complexity and lack of systems of change.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u9	I can't see Solomonine. Then, please, Jaroslav Suhi, the group "Democratic Ukraine". Get ready for Melnichuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u10	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, Democratic Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support the National Deputy of Ukraine, Carmazin, for the fact that this bill has a social orientation. Rather, he would have social orientation if it were not for its anticonstitutional content. We've seen in about six months, we and society as a whole: the main defining features in the style of leadership of the new government are once again cavalry jumps, famines, inconsistencies and the lack of clear estimates of the possible socio-economic consequences of the proposed solutions. And one more thing I want to support is my colleague Karmazin's statement. This is about the absence of a comprehensive approach to the proposed legislative proposals of our government. Unfortunately, the scheme is being established. It's not a bad idea to set up a source of financing for a government mortgage fund. Really, it's a good idea. Of course, such an idea should contribute to the development of market processes in Ukraine’s rural and mortgage institutions. It's not a discussion, it's certainly a positive one. But think about it. By means of which a person in places will be able to develop his business or the people in the village will be able to feel that he or she is the master of his or her land. As always, when a child is born at the time of an increase in wages and pensions, that is, at the expense of the people themselves, because all these beautiful ideas seem to eat up price increases, inflation eats up on the doorstep, galloping, and eats up inconsistent treatment of special funds. The proposed land sale scheme is totally unacceptable because we get, and the profile committee has already said that, we're going to get the underfunding of the local budgets of certain costs. Once again, we're going to hit hard in the case of the adoption of this bill, after the formation of the income portion of the local budgets. And you add here, fellow majors, you add a vicious and cynical delay to Kabmin's decision to allocate funds to investment programs for the same gasification, to complete the building of hospitals, FAPs and schools. And we're going to get you a sad picture of the budgetary immensity of today's power. Moreover, this bill severely violates a number of fundamental articles of the law on local self - government. I am deeply convinced that any positive bills that will suit the interests of Ukraine, the interests of the Ukrainian people, which will not be implemented at the expense of their rights being humiliated. The session room will be supportive. There will also be a bill to improve rural land relations. But this bill cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u11	Yes, on one of your capital statements, they say that those who go to meet with the Prime Minister today have a chance to get them. Yes, please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. John the Rabbit to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u12	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear friends! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will not support this bill, we will not vote for it, at least, here is colleague Carmazin, and the first deputy head of the budget committee, by the way, to prove why. But look, it's interesting, maybe I'll go over it again with National Deputy Carmazin, that the bill will help resolve the issue of completing Ukraine's State Budget special fund through 50 percent of the cost of selling non-agricultural land. 50 over here, another 50 percent of the land sale costs will be directed towards the formation of a state mortgage facility. It's very good, it's true, when this land belonged, it's somewhere in a rural area. Non-agriculture, the corresponding percentage went to local budgets. And anyway, the local budget went up. What do we suggest we do now? Take away these pitiful expenses. According to previous estimates, about 80 percent of the budget of the Montenegrin region will be withdrawn from local concession budgets. Are we taking this step, and will this nation take a step, or will it accept the local self - government and those living in rural areas today? Of course not. Although the idea of creation itself is interesting, it is attractive, and it has to be done, because there is practice, there is the experience of the nations that have already done so. And, of course, this standard exists in many countries, it pays off. But are we ready to do so in Ukraine today? Probably not. Or a failed rule of this law, and we need to work on it. Of course, if it suits the interests of the territorial community, we are ready and will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u13	Thank you. Ivan the Hare--I can't see. Andrew's school is the same. Vladimir Cherniak. Then Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for Anatoly Stepanovich as a very professional employee, and he is, indeed, a specialist in his work. But the second time, I think, his office and he allows, well, very large gaps, offering the Supreme Council bills. I remember the land market bill that got the record number of votes: zero votes in favour. I have this feeling that today, when this bill is voted on, this record will be supported, or perhaps even exceeded. Because this is not how such a technology can be applied through the Supreme Council when the bill is not in agreement with the Professional Committee, when it is contrary to the Constitution and when it is not in the interests of the electorate and in accordance with the interests of the MPs. Anatoly Stepanovich, I'm asking you not to be ashamed of yourself -- to remove this bill from today's review so that you don't get yourself and the government in your person another zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u15	He can't take it off now, because it's already under consideration, and it's already the property of the Supreme Council. We're done. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u16	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Is the microphone working? I thank you very much for supporting the importance of addressing the whole issue, because the mortgage is primarily the social support of those who live in one area or another. And for information. In 5 months of this year, both the State Budget have been implemented and received, and the local budgets of 450 million dollars from the plan, which is 500 million dollars a year, and what you're saying will be narrowed down the rights and solutions to many of the problems in the areas, in the communities, that's not true. So if we want to, and you really do, I feel like you want to take a step towards developing a mortgage and allowing long-term low-cost loans to develop a building, to solve the issues facing the agrarian sector, you need to support these decisions, take the basis, and then work on and go on a second reading to the Supreme Council. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u17	Yes, a minute. He's a craftsman. Mikhail Vasilovich, you've already spoken, don't abuse me. Don't take advantage, you've had three minutes to talk! Please, Master and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u18	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich! In general, in support of a normal idea, I would like to point out once again that, unfortunately, the situation of local budgets is very tense this year, and that's why today we are acting like, you know, emperors on this earth. We want to give this tax to the local budgets, we want to take it away. But let's once again point out that today, Roman Petrovich Immortal, in carrying out the ideology of administrative and territorial reform, should, on the contrary, the government in this. In general, you should give as much authority as possible to local budgets, and today you are distorting the overall normal idea of creating a mortgage fund at the expense of local budgets. It is, well, I think it's an imperial robbery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u19	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine, the State Mortgage Fund, registration number 7487. [[16:27:29]] For-35 So Eugene Gorenik was wrong. Please, by the factions, it's clear. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 0, Ukraine - 1, People's Party - 2, Block Timoshenko - 29, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 2, Ukraine - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 1. Dear colleagues! We should now consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Excise Collection for Alcohol and Tobacco Products, registration number 6091, but also the bill's authors, and the profile committee, and the Cabinet of Ministers are asking him to please. [[on trade in excise goods]] There are loose ends. In order not to look and veto in vain, there is a proposal to agree with the general opinion of all the subjects interested in this bill and not to consider it now. If there's no objection, thank you. There is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the rates of export export duty for certain types of oil crops, registration numbers 5200, 5200-1, 5200-2. [[by abbreviated procedure]] We have national deputies and the Minister of Economics here to report to us, reports Yukhnovsky Oleg Ivanovich. Please, Shevchenko Alexander Alexandrovich. Bill number 5200. Please, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The request will be filed in three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u20	Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dnipropetrovština, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear radio listeners! Today, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Import, Export and Seed Rates for Certain Species is being tabled. Cultures, it aims to lift the restrictions on the export of sunflower in Ukraine and thus reproduce the equivalent conditions for all subjects of the market. According to one of our colleagues, only the election law was discussed more frequently in the Supreme Council, and whether it was the 14th, it is estimated that this law is being reviewed again. In my view, this law is originally intended to cancel the closure of the sunflower market in Ukraine, to reproduce the equivalent conditions of the existence of all the subjects of the market. Today, it is completely out of the question that Ukraine is doing much more to the sunflower than is necessary in the internal market. The law that is now in force has deprived the manufacturer of the possibility of selling it at world prices by introducing export duties first 23% and then 17. Although the introduction of the 17 percent export duty barrier to the sunflower was sort of directed against exporters, it allowed domestic processing enterprises to pick up not only cheap sunflower seeds but also significant profits. But even this decline immediately affected the price of the sunflower. In fact, the peasant was picked up by lowering the internal price of a sunflower by a third. Not market regulation of raw materials prices for whose benefit? Not at the expense of the State, but at the expense of other rural market entities, there is little confusion. Although it's billions. If these 17 percent were automatically accounted for by people who grow sunflowers, it wouldn't have gone anywhere. But unfortunately, it doesn't. It is time to turn state support and policies in Ukraine into real support for the agricultural producer, allowing farmers to enter the international commodity market, to get a real price, to earn money, and not to test them out. Therefore, I would ask you, National MPs, to support Law 5200 on the reduction in the rate of import of export duties on the seeds of certain types of oil crops, in order to introduce seasonal duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u21	Yes. Please, the next author of the bill, Martinovsky Valeriy Pavlovich. [[Bill 5200-1]] Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the history of this bill has been going on for many years. The strong lobby of oil extraction plants is hindering, and the Ministry of Agriculture policy, without really understanding it, is encouraging them instead of defending the interests of the sunflower producers. To be honest, who is supporting the manufacturer today? The answer is, no one but Minagro. The officials of the department, who lobby for private and rich processing, serve a political force to reduce prices before the elections for bread, milk, meat, and irreparable damage to the village, while already declaring support. Several oil extraction plants, using their monopoly on the market, have turned peasants growing sunflowers into a commodity supplement that can be priced. The entire civilized world is struggling to expand the markets, and we, having lost them in 1990, continue to narrow it down. The main myth of budget income does not withstand criticism. The producer loses hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes. Mythom is also the argument that, as a result of the introduction of a 23 per cent duty, we have started to produce more sunflower oil per capita. All of this, respected colleagues who are yelling from their seats, has not been so much due to the introduction of duty, but because of the basic economic feasibility and benefits. Business was primarily interested in the easy, copious privatization of public factories, cheap labour, cheap raw materials and silent producers. There are benefits for all, respected colleagues. So let's not try to turn the economic river upside down again. This could eventually lead to an economic catastrophe. Dear colleagues, I ask you today to follow the economic feasibility, logic and vote in favour of Bill 5200-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u23	Please, Bill 5200-2, it's a government bill. Please, Brezny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Cultures. The bill provides for the establishment of an export duty on sunflower, flax and flax seeds from January 1, 2006. [[Expert]] 16 per cent of the customs value, with a further annual decrease of 1 per cent from 1 January 2007 to a decrease of 10 per cent. I would like to point out that since the introduction of the 1999 export expert moment to sunflower seeds, oil-fat work has gradually stabilized. The available quantities of seeds available to the sunflower in the Ukrainian market made it possible to fully load domestic processing enterprises. Thus, in recent years, solar production has quadrupled on average, accounting for 88 percent. This was achieved as a result of the application of 23 percent of the expert duty, which gave certain advantages to domestic oil-fat processors. Maintaining the corresponding trend also after a decrease in the rate of export duty to 17 percent. The establishment of an expert moment, the government believes that the setting up of an expert moment has played a positive role in the development and development of the manufacturing industry, and we now have, in fact, a price parity of purchase prices for processing and export prices, a powerful sector that does not need, from our point of view, such a mechanism of protection that now exists. The reduction of the import duty on sunflower seeds by one percent, as foreseen by the draft bill, will not have a negative impact on oil and fat work, as the proposed 16-level export duty rate proposed by the bill will allow Ukrainian processing companies to continue to work in full loading and cost-effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the bill will promote balanced work and increase the export potential of the agri-industrial complex. Please accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee Secretary of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Oleg Ivanovich Yukhnowski. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Agricultural Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Export duties for certain types of oil crops, introduced by the National Deputies, and 5200-2 introduced by the Government. [[Registration number 5200, 5200-1]] Such interpretations provide for the liberalisation of the export duty on sunflower seeds. The Committee notes that the oil-fat complex today is or is not the only sector of agricultural production where a clear balance of economic interests of the agricultural producer state is established. During the period of the export duty of Ukraine from the sunflower exporter, the oil importer became a powerful exporter and takes second place after Argentina for the sale of finished products in the world’s markets. The geography of exports in more than 40 countries, including the European Union and the United States. Since 2001, significant investments have been made in the restoration of the material and technical base of the sector, the development of modern technology, the construction of new factories. The oilseed processing capacity has doubled by more than 6 million tons a year. The low cost of sunflower seed processing and high quality allows our products to compete successfully in world markets and to receive high levels of domestic purchasing prices. I want to sharpen your attention, my dear colleagues, on this issue. Because the purchase price in Ukraine in May was 301 dollars per tonne. [[for comparison in the European Union - 294, Argentina - 268, in Russia - 250 dollars per tonne]] The sunflower has become the most profitable culture. Four times the production of oil and more than twice the consumption in the internal market -- from seven to 15 kilograms. Oil is or is not the most accessible food for each family. As for the government's arguments for the adoption of the draft law. First of all, there is no direct ban on export duties in any WTO agreement. In addition, a country with a transition economy uses such duties in relation to raw exports, and the WTO is meeting them. In particular, Argentina, a WTO member, raised export duties from 10 to 23 percent. Secondly, the European Union is calling for the cancellation of the export duty. Why? The arguments are quite simple: All 25 European Union countries produce sunflower seeds less than Ukraine. The European Union’s oil deficit accounts for more than 14 million tons. In Hungary alone, seven oil extraction plants were closed after the entry into the EES. And thirdly, everyone knows that sunflower duty is an obstacle that prevents Ukraine from becoming a market economy country and entering the WTO. In connection with the above, the Supreme Council Committee on Agriculture Policy proposes draft laws, registration numbers 5200, 5200-1, and 5200-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u27	Yeah, they started off pretty good. Thank you. Yes, please, Puzakov Vladimir, the Communist faction. He's got Yuri Carmazin. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u28	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština How do we know that today Ukraine is required to cancel all export duties until the time of its entry into WTO, as well as to make a commitment not to apply export duties even after its entry into WTO, and is it convenient for its own manufacturer? Perhaps the government will answer today? This law is aimed at lifting the restrictions on sunflower exports in Ukraine, not at stabilizing the production and processing of oil seeds. And no one cares that the cost of the products produced by the sunflower in Ukraine is simply plausible. This law is an example of protectionist politics, on the contrary, because it does not take into account the fact that the presence of a sunflower in Ukraine exceeds its internal consumption. That's how the solar producer got rid of the ability to sell it at world prices: through the introduction of export duties first 23 percent, and today, 17 percent, and indicative prices of $245. In fact, the farmer was picked up, reducing the domestic price of the sunflower by more than a third. In turn, the processors were given an artificial monopoly to set domestic prices for sunflowers. Oil extraction plants, operating their world - priced oil, have legislative market regulation of raw material prices for their benefit, but not at the expense of the State, but at the expense of other market entities, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the antitrust legislation of Ukraine. I don't think that this law will create the necessary preconditions to take into account the interests of sunflower manufacturers and not lead to significant negative consequences for manufacturing enterprises. To date, export volumes have been determined by the level of the real price of the sunflower in Ukraine and its export price. The impact of the world’s price and global solar production was significant. Thus, the main objective for which export duties were introduced, namely, the directing of sunflower seeds into the domestic processing industry instead of its exports, proved to be unattainable, since the tariff policy for limiting solar exports increased its availability in the internal market, which in turn reduced the internal price. And prices for oil crops were much lower. So these bills are not supported by our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u29	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I read each of the three bills carefully and arrived. I was curious about peasants from different factions, and I see that there is a very serious question that needs to be addressed. It should be decided only for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, Ukrainian peasants, and Ukrainian businesses. To some extent the first two bills will work on mass serious traders, that's clear because the introduction of a zero rate is not just a zero rate, it's another 20 percent VAT that they have to pay back from the state. This is an incentive for this type of export. Encouragement. Will it be convenient for the State today or not? Obviously not. So, honourable national MPs, after learning about the third project, and realizing that the truth is somewhere in the middle of it, and seeing that there are some calculations for the government bill, I set out to see how many peasants I've lost so far at the time of the introduction of the 17 percent that there are. A private farmer, a manufacturer, loses $55 in one ton. If you take 3 million tons of sunflower produced in a state of statistics, it's $165 million. Of course, it's serious money. They don't get to the ones we're baking about here. What does the government say? The government is talking about the decrease from 1 January 2007 to 1 percentage point in the export duty on oil seeds, thus bringing them to 10 percent. What does that mean? On this basis, it turns out that the government budget is down by 1 percent to $846 thousand, 846 thousand, I emphasize. In doing so, we are gradually changing the situation, and then we need to see what happens next. We can stop it any second. Therefore, of these three bills, I can support the government in view of its reasonableness and its one - percent progress, and it only comes into force on January 1, 2006, and there, on January 1, 2007, only one percent. So I'm going to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u31	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. After him, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u32	Yuri Soldomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! It seems already said about three bills that try to settle export duty rates for certain types of oil crops. And two MPs, and one government. But from all that has been said, it becomes clear that both the pair of boots are both parliamentary and governmental. Nothing like that village uncle, and that farmer won't get what he's been waiting for since the Orange Revolution. So, understanding this situation, our faction, after a thorough discussion, is defined from this point of view, and our position is very simple and understood that such bills cannot be supported. We call on everyone who cares about the fate of the agro-industrial complex not to support such bills and vote against them all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u33	Jaroslav Suhi, group "Democratic Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, we should be warned that since 2000 the authorities have passed a similar kind of bill. Similarly, after he had taken up the basic fields of national agriculture: metallurgy, energy, coal, automobile construction, and agriculture. It is especially unfortunate that the ranks of potential agrarians have suddenly been filled by some members of one faction. This is like political robbery, using pogroms to harvest crops in the VAT field. But let's look without emotion at the explanatory note on the argument. For the sake of these laws. Dear colleagues, you will find neither the interests of the state nor the state's approach. You won't find new jobs there, you won't find stable oil prices there. Nothing like that: one link, one sat and one gat, one sat and one sat and one gat, one gat and one gat. And that's understandable, because the Gothic law and the possible social consequences will be Gothic. I want to remind you: a 23% tax was introduced in the 99th year here, in this session hall, in conditions where the oil-fat industry was on the verge of a complete collapse, because of the export of 50% of the raw material outside Ukraine. In the first year of the export duty, the sunflower was geared towards processing, which gave impetus to the restoration of production. Yet, in 2000, a second channel of export of raw material abroad was developed to bypass export restrictions — a 1 million tons was again exported through the tax system. The authors of this scheme now sit in the hall and look at me calmly. Thus, in June 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine banned the removal of a sunflower abroad by a constitutional majority of 363 votes for processing under the tax scheme, at the same time compromising. We've reduced the import duty by 17%, i.e. the VAT compensation level. They thought they had compromised. The measures allowed oil production to be restored by the early 1990s and increased the cost of solar production from 22 to 80 percent changed exports. Oil is sold by Ukraine in more than 30 countries around the world, and 30 percent of exports are SNDs. Ukraine recently went out to the second city of the world after Argentina to produce oil, squeezing EU countries that once produced oil from our sunflower. This situation is the main reason for the constant pressure on us by the EU and the IMF. And about the myth of Argentina. Dear colleagues, Argentina, based on the State’s interests, is in fact a member of the WTO, raised the export duty to 23.5 percent. And another explanatory note by the deputies. According to IMF experts, the sunflower duty resulted in oil truckers being given an opportunity to increase their profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u35	Yes, the discussion is over. Melnichuk a minute out of procedure, microphone, please, with the motive of voting more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u36	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, radio listeners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will not support this bill. And the speculation that's going around is that this peasant has to come out, he's going to have an income that doesn't make sense just because a farmer who's growing or a collective farm that's having a downturn of 100, 200, 300 tons, one and a half thousand, two thousand, is never going to export a sunflower. So let's do this, we had 23 duties, then we did 17. We already see oil prices rising in the internal market of Ukraine. And let's keep going down to make prices go up. Those traders who would buy seeds from the sunflower could receive profits. I think we need to talk a little bit, we need to wait with these bills, they're not on time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm literally one line. Here we have people who are closer to the ground, who will probably confirm what I say. As far as I know, the sunflower takes the soil’s fertility for about seven years. And as long as we start doing what they want us to do, we will turn our most fertile countries in Europe into a desert. Let's turn it into a desert. Yes, please, I'm putting the vote in order of discussion. On acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops, registration number 5200. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:55:17]] For-26 The factions? Please. I'll read the good ones. "Ukraine" - 5, People's Party - 20, Socialists - 1, that's all, 26 votes. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of draft law number 5200-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:56:00]] For-19 Same thing. You see, you can navigate. Clearly, if the author of the bill belongs to a faction or another faction, the faction supports it. Well, you don't want solidarity here. I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Cultures, registration number 5200-2. A government project. [[16:56:44]] For-79 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 11, People's Party - 26, Block Timoshenko - 34, Socialist - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, Social Democrats - 0. [[United]] "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 2, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, non-fractional - 1. Yes, I'm just reminding you, dear colleagues, that this is one of the bills that had something to do with Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization so it wouldn't happen again. You know, we're being accused of not voting on Parliament. Better drafts may be needed. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Banking and Banking is under consideration. [[on the procedure for the liquidation of banks]] Registration number 5759. Short-term procedure. People's MP Pecklusenko, Alexander Mikolayovich, reports. Prepare Sergey Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u38	Respected colleagues, the draft law is designed to amend article 96 of the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, designed to protect the interests of bank investors and to improve the process of liquidation of the bank in order to meet creditors'claims to the bank. The introduction of changes to the law is due to the need to establish the most effective procedure for meeting bank requirements, taking into account the sad experience gained in the liquidation of the shareholding commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine”, “Slavianski”, “Our Bank”, based on the sad practice of applying the relevant rules of law. The purpose of the law is to improve the law in order to meet creditors'claims to the bank, including the claims of creditors secured by the cost of carrying out the bank's procedure. Part of the law is proposed to amend the legislative field as follows, in order to satisfy creditors to the bank that is being disposed of. It is envisaged that funds derived from the liquidation procedure of the bank will be channelled primarily to meet the requirements of investors of individuals to exceed the amount provided for in the deposit guarantee system, but not more than 50,000 per investor. The following wording is proposed: “By way of payment of equal amounts within the limits of cash”. This draft law seeks to restore social justice and allows investors to return some of their lost contributions due to the lack of control mechanisms by the National Bank and the authorities. It provides for a change in the order in which funds are paid to fraudulent investors. The existing procedure provides for payment. The proposed project allows for increased payment to investors. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking and there was a positive decision. I urge you, colleagues, to restore social justice and to vote in favour of the proposed draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u39	Thank you, we will definitely vote. The chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 96 of the Banking and Banking Act. [[on the procedure for the liquidation of banks]] The purpose of the bill is to protect the interests of bank investors and to improve the process of liquidation of the bank in part of the cash flow and order of satisfaction of creditors' claims to the bank. You remember the questionable legacy of the banks "Ukraine", "Slovenian" and "Our Bank". This led to the need for adoption and consideration of this bill. Experience gained in the liquidation of the above-mentioned banks shows that the order and order of compliance of creditors established by the rules of article 96 of the law does not allow the requirements of the most vulnerable creditors to be met by the bank, that is, natural persons. At the same time, the protection of the legitimate interests of bank investors is one of the functions of the National Bank of Ukraine to ensure that the proposed amendments are implemented. The essence of the bill. The law proposes to make the following changes to the legislative field in order to meet the requirements of the liquidating bank’s creditors. First. It is anticipated that the funds received as a result of the liquidation procedure will be channelled, first of all, to meet the requirements of investors -- individuals -- in part exceeding the amount foreseen by the deposit guarantee system, but not more than 50,000 dollars per investor. Second: Meeting the requirements of the fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons. Third: Debt on the salaries of bank employees, except for the management of the liquidation bank, will also be settled in the first order. On the basis of the above, the committee decided to recommend and ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u41	Can we please talk about this? Or shall we vote? Please, Karmazin. Prepare the second Yuri - Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read with caution the bill signed by the people's deputies Burjak, Pecklusenko, Bichkov. And in principle, they raised the idea very good. I have a point to make about this idea, and I'm going to say it right now. The idea is that it is proposed to restore actual justice - and change to the order of satisfaction of creditors' claims to the bank, which would protect the interests of different people precisely because of their attitude towards wages, i.e. the bank's obligation to its employees on wages, should be paid in the first place. And it's probably none of them. There'd be no comment. By the way, using the opportunity that this bill was put in the middle. And the chairman of the Burjak Committee, I'd like to address one question. That's the question I want to address to the head of Mr. Stelmach's National Bank. Who's lobbying banks, Ukrainian banks? Why don't our people today have cheap loans under 2, 1.5 or 3 percent of what they have around the world? Why our people cannot buy housing and other items and so forth by growing. Giving up fat to build our banks? Is it enough for our bankers to build up fat? And I'm asking a question to the committee. Let's go face to face with people, not just protect the interests of a bunch of bankers. To do this, our colleagues, such as Pecklusenka, Bitchkov, and Burjak, need to make further changes to the Civil Code. Because if you don't make these changes, then in accordance with the Civil Code. I remind you that in article 4 of this Code it says that if the subject of the law of the legislative initiative has passed a bill that regulates civil relations differently than this Civil Code, which is the basic law, then they have. He is obliged to submit a draft amending the Civil Code at the same time. This project is not implemented. From a regulatory point of view, this should have been taken into consideration by the Burjak Committee. You didn't do it, and it's very bad. I wish we could. But you can't kill the idea. And knowing that these violations are being committed in the Supreme Council, I will deliberately say that I will vote in the first reading with mandatory work. I'll even help them work out the changes to the Civil Code, where this order is foreseen. And to the National Bank and to the Banking Committee, I want to ask you, do it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u43	Yuri Anatolyovich, you better make a cheap bank. The word is given by Yuri Solomatin, a faction of Communists. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u44	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The bill amending the Ukrainian Banking and Banking Act is needed in time. [[on the procedure for the liquidation of banks]] It was here that calls were made for the restoration of social justice, that individuals who had contributed, and if this contribution did not exceed 50,000 dollars, they would have paid the premiums by paying the same amount, and so on. Thus, it seems that social justice is being restored. But let's tell you the truth. It's a palatative solution, it's a petty, temporary solution to the problem of social justice, because when people put everything into place: power, ownership, and now, in this way, the current, temporary minor issues are solved, it's just a strain on the face and the legislative body and the state that exists today. How can social justice be restored? Only on one condition is the restoration of Soviet power, the power of workers and workers, and the restoration of social justice, not selectively and in part, nor palliatively, but through the return of property stolen from the people, i.e. in the event of nationalization and, above all, the leading industries and natural monopolies. This is what the bill proposed by the Communist MPs and Peter Simonenko, the leader of our faction and party, but unfortunately, the bourgeois part of this multimillionaire parliament did not support this bill. And so at the end of our radio audiences and voters, I would like to ask, my dear friends, always consider all the suggestions that are being made here. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in this state's highest rostrum from a social class perspective, who is it in favour of? And in this question, which we are considering today, this benefit is only partial to that little Ukrainian. We'll support this bill, but it doesn't decide everything that needs to be decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u45	Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhi, Deputy Group "Democratic Ukraine". Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u46	My dear colleagues, in recent times, we have seen a great deal of bankruptcy in Ukraine, the closure of many banks. After all, what is normal in a civilized world that does not lead to serious consequences is primarily the suffering of people who are being deceived over and over again. Social tension is rising, and most importantly, people's confidence in the banking sector is declining, the amount of possible investments in our nation's economy is declining, because it's widely known that the best, most stable investor is a citizen of his state. This has happened, and it has happened that it has been in Zaporozhye that recent failures have been experienced and terrible experiences have fallen into the hands of bank investors: "Slovakia", "Our Bank", "Ukraine". It turns up. That at the legislative level, the interests of a simple human investor are completely unprotected. It is distress and despair for many. I want to tell you that at the rally in Zaporozhye and here in Kiev, there were a lot of people dying in protest, just dying in the streets of despair, heart attacks, then dying in hospitals. Thus, in the name of those who died in the name of justice and equality, we are obliged to support this bill, and it would not be wrong to support it in general. The proposed changes to the order and order of the creditors’ demands to the bank enhance the protection of the interests of different groups of individuals, since their requirements are rightly put first. I propose that this bill be adopted as a whole, if that is not possible, as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u47	Mikhailo Melniczuk, turn on the microphone, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u48	Melniczuk, a faction of socialists. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, may I have a word with the national deputy Shibko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u49	Vitaly Hiccup microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u50	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Fast, socialist faction. I'll remind my colleagues, there's a picture of Makovsky, it looks like Jaroshenko's "The Crag of the Bank." And there, indeed, was a tragedy that was reflected when not only the one who invested in this bank was affected, but the one who owned this bank, because he really lost. We're just going through the collapses and these banks, and it's always just investors who suffer, never suffer when. Those who put that money there because they're planning this crash in advance. And in planning this crash, of course, they do everything in order not to get hurt. So I think that really what the colleagues are offering right now is in time and this idea of good and really should be voted on. But the language goes, I think, about the first reading, because there are many problems in this bill that the authors haven't been able to solve. Well, let's say there's a topic where there's, really, 50 grand to be given, we have to give parts to those who have suffered from it, but from where these take the money. The brothers, from being a bankrupt house or a bankrupt property, are then sold out of the trade. And then, of course, there's a fund that's being accumulated and then it can be implemented to somehow give up that part of the money that's being invested by investors. Whether there are such buildings or, indeed, there are property in those banks that are preparing for bankruptcy in advance to solve the problem. Of course not. So I think that, and this might be a suggestion to this bill that it should be some kind of insurance fund that needs to be done. At the National Bank. So if there's a bank, if it's formed, please have, gentlemen of honor, an insurance fund for you to understand, if, God forbid, something happens to your bank, then there are funds in the state that you're starting to have to realize these costs and somehow realize these losses. This is one of the main proposals to be considered today in the second reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u51	Just a minute. The bill is closed. For reasons, please write down three minutes. I understand it's for motive. Now we're going to start performing, we're going to be performing for half an hour. Please write it down for reasons. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Tkalenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u52	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. I would like to support the statement made by colleague Shibk, since before this bill meets the demands of the physical person, payment of the liquidation procedure should still be made, as well as satisfactory claims of the detainee. And it is obvious that it may not be possible for individuals to take turns. So in general, in support of the idea of this bill, I think we should send it back for rereading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u53	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, thank you for your support. Indeed, this law is only a first step in the mechanism for monitoring the activities of banks. The rest of the time, I'm asking you to tell my colleague Bastriga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u55	Please, Ivan Mikhailovich Bystriga, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u56	Respectable colleagues, respected investors. In history, we have three cases in the history of Ukraine, such as the collapse of banks. Who was issuing, asking who was licensing these banks? Why is this responsibility now imposed again on the investor? It was a difficult story to break in with the U.S.S.S.S.S.R. Therefore, there are specific persons who are responsible, and we need today to make a unanimous decision to vote on this law, to support what Comrade Carmazin has proposed, to make some changes, and to adopt it as a whole at this session in order to ensure that the return is received by direct investors, not by those who have destroyed the banks, and not by those who have taken it off-shore.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u57	Yes, Alexander Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u58	Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dnipropetrovština, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I think that today is a very recent review of this draft law amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine, especially given that when people believed that the economy would work properly, they believed banks, once again, when it comes to not only the old history of the bank, not only the history of the bank of Ukraine, but I, as a member of the commission of inquiry, know what the situation is, but again, the banks of Zaporozhye. There's a bank like this in Dnipropetrovsk. And it even happened that the President personally had to intervene in this situation in order to regulate. I believe that the adoption of this law will not only bring confidence to those who will engage in banking activities, but also to investors, to our electorate with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u59	Yes, dear colleagues, please mobilize. Yes, Shurma, please. It was written down, unable to speak. Please, Storm and we'll vote. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u60	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. The draft Banking and Banking Act and the Banking Procedure is really a matter that needs attention. I would like to point out that today's faction of united Social Democrats does not vote. And the reason for that is to draw society's attention to the fellow MPs. People who listen to the session do not know what fellow MPs are. The faction opposes that the accomplices in two positions do not get two salaries to the governor, let's say, the Lviv or Zacarpathian region does not fly free of charge on the plane, so that his salary is as governor of 2000 dollars, and he does not take the salary of a deputy of 5,000 dollars so that these people do not violate the 78th, 120th article of the Constitution, so that they do not violate the Ukrainian State Service Act and the Ukrainian Corruption Act. We're against double standards that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u61	Yes, dear fellows! We have two draft inadmissibility decrees. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I will put these proposals to the vote first. The first is the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of the draft Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Banking and Banking Act, registered number 5759/p, introduced by Paul Matvienk. We'll vote once, we've got two projects here. If it didn't work out once, that's it. It's up to one law. That is, the first one to vote is the project introduced by Paul Matthew. There's also the Leonid Chernewick project. About the inadmissibility, please identify yourself. [[17:21:04]] For 1 Dear colleagues, please. Please note that a proposal for a committee to adopt is put to the vote on the basis of a draft law amending the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 5759. [[on the procedure for the liquidation of banks]] Please vote. [[17:21:41]] For 332 Decision taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Single Customs Tariff Act is being announced for consideration. [[on customs duties from bank metals]] Registration numbers: 6413, 6413-1. Reporters: Leonid Chernewsky. Prepare Sergey Osica. Please, three minutes. And from the committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u62	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I'll tell you what this is about. The tariffs on bank metals have been set up completely, as it's called, illiterately, because these are bank metals, I'll explain. It's a regular currency, the same currency as a bracelet, like a ruble, like a dollar, like a euro. And, in principle, I am interested in the very approach that has been followed, the very ideology that has been guided by those who have accepted these tariffs, and why the new Government has unfortunately not abolished them. Because if we go on the path of what to bet all in order to solve some of the important social problems, we can go straight to absurdity, because by law - you can see the Cabinet of Ministers decree that was developed once by Vladimir Mikhailovich Pinzenik - you will see that banking gold is a regular currency that is recognized all over the world. If we are going along the path of European integration, if we are talking about the rule of law, justice and so forth, then of course this tariff should be abolished. In fact, we do not have much of it in the money budget, but in this way we simply break the entire mechanism of monetary relations with other countries. And if any of those present name one country, even Belarus or anything like it, there, Tajikistan, anyone. Whoever introduced these tariffs is going to be very surprised, because it's going to happen to them. Well, that's bullshit. So I'm asking you very much, you're just going to look at the approaches, right? - because we'll bet our bracelet and everything else, and except for. and that Ukraine will not receive gold that is not mined in Ukraine, but that currency. Foreign exchange reserves of the country. Well, we're not gonna make it. I mean, if we're talking about something funny, then let's leave them, and so I want to think about it and make the right decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u63	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Sergei Grigorovich Osik. Prepare for the committee, Sergey Vasilovich Burjak, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The previous reporter, Leonid Mikhailovich, said everything right. So in order not to make the room messy and incomprehensible, I'm taking down my bill, and I think we're going to add everything we have to add to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u65	Thank you for your constructive position, Sergey Grigorovich. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak Please take the seat of the committee and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Ukraine is not a gold - mined state, but it is simply processing the scrap and waste of precious metals and afusing them to the extent of bank metals that are used within the state and have no access to international markets. That's what I'm stressing. In Ukraine, too, there are no certified international standards for enterprises that are in the process of affining precious metals to standards accepted in international practice by the London Association for the Market in Precious Metals and participants in the London platinum and palladia market. That's why Ukraine is forced to import bank metals from abroad, which under international standards have the highest degree of chemical clearance and have received foreign currency status in Ukraine. The National Bank of Ukraine and the Banking Institutions of Ukraine have significantly increased their work in the bank metal market over the past few years and have provided a large number of certified bank metals to Ukraine, enabling them to increase the gold reserves of the National Bank and provide quality raw materials for Ukraine's jewelry industry. It has to be noted that under the Ukrainian Single Customs Tariff Act, foreign currency imported into the customs territory of Ukraine is exempt from payment of import duties. However, since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Customs Code of January 1, 2004, the Ukrainian Customs Service has issued an instruction letter to give its interpretation of the terms "foreign currency" and "bank metals" and introduced a new order for the customs processing of bank metals with the payment of import duties on general grounds. By the way, it varies between 2 and 5 percent depending on the country of origin of such metals. The main reason for the import of bank metals from the point of view of the State Customs Service is that article 1 of the Ukrainian Customs Code distinguishes the concept of "foreign currency" and "bank metals", but the above does not exclude the treatment of "bank metals" in terms of the definition of foreign currency. All the above factors have been the basis for the unanimous support of the Legislative Committee on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the One Customs Tariff, which was introduced by the Montenegrin National Deputy Leonid Mihajlovich, which provides for exemption from payment of import duties for imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of bank metals. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the National Bank of Ukraine, the government generally supports the above-mentioned bill and requests that it be expedited in the Supreme Council. That's why the committee asks you, honourable colleagues, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u67	Thank you. That, dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote. There's no objection, there's no objection, well, then let's take it as a base, this one. Is there an insistence? Okay. Yuri Carmazin, please. You refuse, Yuri Anatolyovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, this bill has and is positive, there is also negative, of course. I've already talked about the positives that Ukraine doesn't own enough to meet its own needs with natural reserves of bank metals. On the other hand, Mineconomy reports that it is not possible to say whether or not the project should be needed, because by bringing it up for consideration by the Customs Tariff Council, and it has not yet been the Customs Tariff Council, they cannot justify the relevance of the proposed changes, because, according to the State Secret Act, information on the state's stocks of precious metals of the monetary group, precious stones, currencies and other values is included in the State Secret. And here it refers to precious metals -- gold, silver, platinum, metals -- paladium, iridium, rodei, osmium, rutene. So it's clear today, on behalf of the government, whether we have to do this -- accept it, get rid of the import and export duties, these metals are precious, or not, we're having a hard time today, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. It's because we don't have a customs board. And it has to be for such a bill. In addition, it is proposed to release not only the import operations of bank metals but also the operations from their export. I don't think that's going to promote the national interests of the state. I am confident that there will be losses for the state budget of Ukraine. This is because, as a representative of the Party of Protectors of the Homeland, I have always stood in the position of defending the interests of my own producer, standing in the interests of protecting my own national interests, which should be over everything in this case. I can't vote for this law today because there may also be huge losses to the State budget, which nobody has told us today, I haven't calculated. I wonder why the government says in its conclusions that, in principle, this bill can be adopted. I'm wondering why the Science and Experimental Authority writes that you can base this bill, if there are no basic calculations, there are no basic calculations, and at the same time, the export operations are also exempt from the taxation of the export duty. I understand that they should be brought here, and back, I'm sorry, any country has to defend its interests. I will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u69	Yuri Solomatin, please. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u70	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, everything seems to be clear. Even from a formal point of view, the Cabinet of Ministers did not take into account the requirement of Ukraine's Single Customs Tariff Act, and this requirement is that such proposals should be considered by the Customs Tariff Council at the Cabinet of Ministers. That's not what happened. Well, it's a formal side, the government has given, even he's agreed that it's okay. But on the other hand, it is proposed to release not only the operations of importing bank metals and other foreign currency values but also the operations of exporting them. I understand it's very simple, guys are going to run abroad with suitcases and take out all the things they've already piled up right here. We have to put an end to these shameful intentions and set such a duty that it never, even in a terrible dream, dream that they are taking something out of Ukraine. So our faction will not vote for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u71	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Microphone, please. Turn on the microphone. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u72	Please give the floor to the National MP, Vitalia Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u73	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u74	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear friends, I would like to point out that there is a very controversial bill. Because there's really not much to figure out. First of all, it's one level and it's got a car and it's got a lift. So we can't just one bill accept what's going on both exports and imports. That's the first one. The other one. Would it not be better to find out by means of the Customs Codex? Because we can accept this bill, and the argument that is set out in paragraph 1 of the Customs Code remains. And the third argument today. There's something I can't remember that someone with suitcases should take some stuff or take it out. They can export and they can't import. They're imported as usual, I remember the equivalent, or the currency equivalent. Instead of importing gold or other precious metals, the currency will be imported into the equivalent. So do we really need to raise this issue today, not rather find it out through an expert board that has to work on this issue, taking into account the changes to the Customs Code itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u75	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u76	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Honorable national MPs may be the point of liberalizing the imports of bank metals. But I still don't understand how to liberalize the export of bank metals. That's the first question. The second question. It's not just about bank metals, it's about other currency values. And for us, we need to make clear what other monetary values are. Is this an exhaustive list that we find in the President's decree, or is it someone there who will then explain in every case what these values mean. And we know that these values mean both the receipts to the debt, the letters of credit, the checks, and the bank orders, and the deposit certificates, and other financial and banking documents. So if we adopt such a bill, we must give a comprehensive list of these financial values, otherwise we will create some holes that will not be completely manageable, guided. I mean, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that if this bill is to be adopted in the first reading, then the second reading will definitely have to specify exactly what "other monetary values" are, otherwise we're going to get a big application. And the second is what the people's deputies told me. They said that in such an editorial, the bill was not in line with the existing Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, because it was still about paying the tax. So we need to reconcile it with an existing bill. But I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to this customs disease that we are experiencing here today, in the Supreme Council, in Ukraine at all. The power of the bill to reduce duty, to refuse duty at all, and no one explains how we will protect our economic space, how will we protect our national producer? No one will say a word about nontariff methods of regulation. We've forgotten that there are tools such as standardization, such as certification, which the Ukrainian State is actually planning in this direction to protect its economic space, its national producer. Keep your mouth Nobody's saying anything at all. And that surprises me very much. Because I have a question: If there are no answers to these questions, someone just wants to lobby something. So in this case, I propose that I take this bill first, but in the second reading, I must answer the issue of exports and go to a specific list of other monetary values. You can't pass a law when these values aren't fixed. Thank you. So in the first reading, we accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u77	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, one minute, the author of the Leonid Mikhailovich Černovecki project. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u78	Respectable people's deputies, respected radio audiences, TV viewers watching us! Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. First of all, I very much thank the Minister of the former Hare for having to adopt this bill in the first reading. And from Ukraine, it's illegal to take everyone out. Because it's why we're taking out dollars and a bracelet of all the crap we've got in the first place. That's a first. Because it's clean. Of course, you know me better in the economy, that's a hundred percent, you're a minister, and who am I? This is the first time. And second of all, forget about it. Most importantly, I advise all the people's deputies to call their relatives and loved ones. And I'll give the communists advice. You're in a good suit, by the way, Mr. Solomatine. It is best to hide money and take it out of the country in gold, my dear, in dollars, including the former communists. They're light, and they're hard in gold, because that's what you have to call a cell. That's why you're going to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u79	Thank you. One minute, let's vote. I beg of you, fellows of honor! Let's vote. Solomonine, a replica, please. Only. Don't call me names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u80	Sir. Dear Mr. Banker! I will answer you in a common language: it is easier not to export gold, not even dollars, as you said, but by e-mail. And as is done, we know how those gentlemen who are outside Ukraine have done so. And they're sitting with a bracelet on their leg, and someone might have this bracelet going somewhere else. I wouldn't want that to happen to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u81	Please, Rabbit, a replica. Don't call me names, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, calm down. The rabbit was called Chernevski. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u82	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I would not want us to judge each other on such serious matters by who is more of an expert in some field. I am a national MP, like anyone else: both Leonid Chernewicki or anyone else. And I'm responsible for what I'm pushing. And that's why I want to know the essence of any question. My proposal, as you've heard, was very simple: we take this bill in the first reading, but we certainly specify what other monetary values are, because the law can't have such a term as "other monetary values." Then anyone who wants to understand these monetary values will understand. So let's discuss the bill properly. We're all experts in the bill, and there's no worse or worse. There is a responsibility to its citizens. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please prepare for the vote. A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Single Customs Tariff. [[on customs duties from bank metals]] Registration number 6413. Please vote. [[17:43:06]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws is being announced for consideration. The factions? Please. In factions, let's see: "Our Ukraine" - 68, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 16, People's Party - 31, Block Timoshenko - 35, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, "Afterfractional" - 10. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the State Special Transportation Service is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich. We continue our work for 15 minutes, up to 18 hours 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Soon it is being implemented for a year and a half, as we passed the Law on State Special Transportation, according to which the railway forces are transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And about a year and a half, Ukrainian legislation is not regulated under this law of transfer. I want to tell you that this law is in agreement with some president of our own or the Prime Minister or the Minister of Transport. This law is in keeping with the interests of national security and the defense of our nation and of the people in this transport service. Under this law, amendments are made to 38 legislative acts. I understand that some of them call for a different approach to our deputies. I understand the first question is paying the land tax. In this bill, it is proposed that this service be released from the tax on land for a transitional period. If the MPs have this point of view, I would ask in the second reading we'll take it into account. Some advocated that the commanders should not be allowed to give their superiors prior knowledge. If a worker or a ministerial servant has committed an offence, the commander must determine for himself whether it is a crime or an offence, whether he should be tried or arrested for five days on haupwakh, it is up to him to make a decision. If some MPs disagree, let's take a look at it in the second reading and throw it out. There's also a contradiction to the fact that the Ministry of Finance says it needs 60 million. Not when we passed the law on state law. The transport service, we then said that the funding for the transitional period of this service was based on the funds that the Ministry of Defense had previously provided for this service. That is, this part is passed to the Ministry of Transport for a transitional period. And no doubt about it, this service today takes part in the construction of a bridge through Dnipro. Let me invite you tomorrow, let's go and see what these people are doing. Already 8 million dollars have been made in the State’s budget. There are some other questions that also call for an unusual approach to the MP. I ask you to vote on this law in the first reading. I promise you, in the second reading, I will be on the committee to make all the amendments that you will find necessary for them to be made to this law. People can't wait any longer. I ask you to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u85	So, we're voting? Yuri Karmazin and we will vote. One minute. Then Bandurka and we'll vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, it is necessary to settle a situation. The fact is that the charter of the garrison and watchman service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces does not extend to the state special transport service today. The State Special Transportation Service is very special, in fact we have another almost micro-commanding officer. With the adoption of this law, the drafting of the State Special Transportation Service would not be carried out by means of a general military obligation, but I was firmly opposed to having the chiefs of the knowledge bodies to carry out these functions. I talked to the author earlier, he agreed that he was willing to film everything in preparation for the second reading. And in general, if you take it all down, the first time you read it, you can adopt this law, but once again, with substantial, substantial refinements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u87	Bandur Alexander Markovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u88	Bandurka, People’s Party of Lithuania Dear colleagues! About April months, we considered a similar issue, and within the army, we took away their benefits of not paying for the land. Pay. The church was considered, and the church also paid a tax for the land. Why should we make an exception for the railway forces? Let's take this position out of the way that they're freed from land payments and then you could vote as the reporter suggests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! Please mobilize for the vote. A proposal by the Committee on Adoption is being tabled on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on State Special Transportation Services. Registration number 6001. Please vote. [[17:49:37]] For-166 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the draft law, registration number 6001. [[17:50:01]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the pension of family members of deceased military personnel, registration number 6272, is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Leonid Grigorovich Sergiyenko, Ukrainian National Deputy, Prepare for Leonid Kadenyuk Committee Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u90	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, Leonid Sergienko, 27th constituency, city of Dnipropetrovsk, socialist party of Ukraine. A review by the Supreme Council of the country of Law 6272 on amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the retirement of family members of deceased military personnel, which called for the need to solve social problems in families of deceased members of hostilities in Afghanistan and elsewhere. The social integrity of children, widows, and parents should be set to the right level. and meet at least the minimum standards of the world community. The bill proposes to introduce a 50 per cent pension allowance for those who have lost their jobs, members of families of military personnel and related persons who have died, as well as wives of dead men, disabled persons of the Great War who have not been remarried. According to article 63 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005, this would be 166 dollars. The bill proposes to increase the payment to 166 dollars, since in the Russian Federation more than 500 dollars have already been paid to families who have died in Afghanistan. To date, the pension allowance for deceased military personnel amounts to $29.87 apiece, an understatement of $29.87 apiece. While the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 has the title "To Meet People". I'll give you an example of how the payment of compensation for the citizens of the Russian Federation and Israel as a result of the crash of a Ukrainian aircraft amounted to $200,000. Any comments in comparison payments, I think, are unnecessary. Dear colleagues, the size of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs — 332 bracelets — has been taken as a normative basis for determining the size of the allowances. Accordingly, an increase in the subsistence minimum will be made, as defined by the Ukrainian Law on State Social Standards and State Social Guarantees. Now for comments and suggestions. After the first reading, the bill will be finalized. When it comes to becoming effective and in keeping with the requirements of Article 6.2. 7 The Supreme Council of Ukraine's regulation proposes to put the law into effect as of January 1, 2006. The essence of the bill is that justice must be restored, for the State has not actually compensated for the loss to parents, mothers, wives, and children. They are in great financial distress today. Please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you very much for your attention and hope for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u91	Thank you, Leonid Grigorovich. Leonid Konstantinovich Kadenyuk is invited to the report, the deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting, considered the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the retirement of members of families of deceased military personnel. The purpose of the draft law is to introduce to members of families of military personnel and related persons who died in service duties, as well as wives, men who were disabled by the Great War, who had not been married for the second time, a 50 - percent wage payment. For those who have lost their jobs, regardless of the type and size of their pension or their permanent financial security. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the establishment of an additional pension for individual categories of citizens from families of deceased military personnel will require additional funds from the State budget of $72.4 million a year. The Committee supports the proposal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption, subject to its entry into force on 1 January 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection when we take this document as a basis? Now, one minute. Yuri Carmazin, then we'll ask the deputy minister to express his position, and we'll decide on the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the National Deputies and Sergeina and Klimenka for paying attention to this situation. And what's more, it wasn't just them that paid attention, but we had representatives of veteran organizations and particularly veterans who fought in Afghanistan. I will ask you to adopt this law in the first reading. And even though the price of the issue here is 72.4 million dollars a year, it's not the money, it's not the price paid by those people who lost their jobs, risking their lives. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like us to make changes, too, and we now have a protocol to amend the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, this is also the Law on the Retirement of Military Servants, the Persons of the Military and Chief Staff of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u95	Yes, Mr. Hotch is the deputy minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On Thursday you voted on a bill submitted by the Committee on Veterans and Pensioners. And there is an increase in the families of the dead, the disabled of the war, the participants in the fighting. And it's been in effect since January 1st, 2006. So the solution to this question, which the national deputies are proposing, has already been resolved on Thursday. So, if you please, we're going to implement that law that you passed on Thursday, and then we're going to make changes in the next one, because then we're going to take out one category and we're going to cross out what the Supreme Council did on Thursday. This law is signed to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being put to the vote on the basis of amendments to some of Ukraine's pension laws regarding members of the families of deceased military personnel. Registration number 6272. Please vote. [[17:58:06]] For-153 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 52, "Regions of Ukraine" - 7, People's Party - 28, block Timoshenko - 2, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU(o) - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "One Ukraine" - 4, "Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 5, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, non-fractional - 6. Committee head Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I would like to ask you again to put this document to the vote and here are some reasons. Helen Vasilyvna Hota made a reference to a document that we really voted on last week, but it wasn't signed by the President. And I'm absolutely not sure he'll be signed. So this replica may have played a role in the fact that someone had not voted in favour of the document. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to vote for this document. If it's out of need, well, at the last step, we can take it off. But I think he needs to be supported at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u99	Honourable colleagues, taking into account the committee's proposal, I am voting for a return to the draft law amending some of Ukraine's pension laws on family members of deceased military personnel, a return to the draft bill. What, what? I'm in the rules of action. Dear colleagues, I'm acting under the Rules. [[17:59:55]] For-173 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, I am acting under the Rules. Please calm down. The draft law amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning persons who are subject to the law]] We have two numbers here: 6143, 6143-1. So, the rapporteurs are the national deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Billowol and Leo Mirymsky. Please. To prepare Peter Stepanovich Zibenka, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u100	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, great colleagues! In the draft law that we are introducing, amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Veterans and Their Guarantees of Social Protection, it is that article 10 of the Ukrainian Law stipulates that in the event of the death of participants in war, fighting acts recognized as life by persons with disabilities, regardless of the reasons for disability, for the wives of such participants, the benefits previously paid are preserved. At the same time, however, there is no provision for the wives of those involved in the war and fighting that were not disabled. As a result, respected colleagues, there are major social and material problems in the families of the dead and dead warlords in Afghanistan and various battle stations where they fought. So I would like to address you, given the problems that exist today, so that we can save the right benefits for such a category of women. I think so. I think today's adoption of this law will give us a small margin in budgetary financing. And so if we take this law very seriously, we can anticipate additional financial advances from January 1st, 2006. And I think that the adoption of this law, honourable colleagues, will contribute to strengthening the social protection of the families of members of the war and the fighting. That's why I'm asking you to uphold this law. And there's practically support for the professional committees, there's support for the science-expert administration, where it's said that this law can be adopted in the first reading and on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u101	Thank you. Yes, is there a Lion of Miriam? None. Please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, the bill is presented to you by the authors, so I don't need to repeat its contents, this document. I just want to say that the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has supported this bill and is proposing that it be adopted in the first reading. But, at the same time, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues, the national deputies of Ukraine, with one request. The request is as follows. The committee is today trying to bring the content of the War veterans status and guarantee their social protection Act back to its name, bring it closer to its name. Why I say that, because at one time, when some support, including material support, was required by certain categories of citizens and there were no relevant laws, they were included in the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. Today the situation has changed: today we have the Nazi Persecution Victims Act, today we have the Social Protection of the Children of War Act, and a number of other laws. So I'm very much asking my colleagues in the future to come up with some kind of bill, to see what kind of law should be applied to one or the other. But as I return to this bill, I reiterate that the committee has decided to support this paper in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to accept as a base 6143 and to reject 6143-1. According to the arrivals, we will be. and the registrations we'll vote on. I'm asking you to mobilize, dear colleagues. There is a motion for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[concerning persons who are subject to the law]] This is registration number 6143. Please vote. [[18:04:44]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine -3, Communists -55, Ukraine -35, People's Party -32, Block Timoshenko - 1, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 19, SDPU - 11, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Ukraine - 9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 0, non-fractional - 11. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, is being announced for consideration. [[on the benefit of war invalids]] Registration number 6452. The reporter is Ivan Alexanderovich Gerasimov. Valentin Alekseiovich Anastasiayev will speak from the committee. This is the last bill we're going to consider. I continued my work, according to the Rules, for 15 minutes, my esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u104	Gerasimov, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! To your attention is Bill 6452 amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guaranteeing their social protection. The Council of the Ukrainian Veterans has asked very many war veterans to grant them land-use benefits and to increase the benefits of using the telephone. The bill therefore proposes that an additional 100 per cent allowance should be granted to persons with disabilities of war in the use of public style and that the discount should be increased to 100 per cent for the use of the flat phone. These benefits will greatly improve the social protection of war veterans. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u105	Thank you. Anastasiav Valentin Alexiyovich, head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u106	Valentin Anastasiaev, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council for Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees for their social protection, registration number 6452. The project proposes to establish a concession for the disabled of war for the water used in the field of land as well as a flat-phone allowance. During the discussion on the Committee, it was stressed that this benefit for disabled persons who gave up part of their health in the protection of their homeland was negligible, but that it was essential for every disabled person that the telephone service with the health institution was essential and that the water supply of their garden would provide food assistance. The adoption of the bill would provide an opportunity to improve the social situation of war veterans. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to support the project and to adopt it as a basis to take account of the decrease and decrease in the number of veterans each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u107	Yes. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. And then we'll decide what to do. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Well, let's make decisions, because there's no one to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the adoption of this Law, but in this Law, and in the previous law, that it enters into force no later than 1 January 2006, otherwise we do not have the right under the budget code of article 27. We have also adopted the previous Law, also with this flaw. If we count how much money there will be and what they're going to form now, then we just have time before, when we adopt the State Budget Act, to count these costs, and now we're just not going to find them if we declare this benefit right from the moment of adoption. So I have an offer: to accept this offer, to support the veterans, to have very few left, we have to carry each of them on our hands, not just to give them a minimum wage. And, but to be done on January 1, 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u109	Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, then Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u110	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, Democratic Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to support again, how many times in this day, Comrade Carmazin, and to say that we are simply destined to make changes over and over again to the basic law that was passed, as we know, in 1993 on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. The thing about the governments that haven't changed, social policy -- it was the chaotic patching of holes. And as long as there's no normal, comprehensive targeted social assistance, we're going to adopt such bills. And the budget and regulatory crevices that are against this bill, I'll remind you, today is June 21st, and tomorrow, June 22nd, 2005. In the name of this date, of the outbreak of the Great Homeland War for the warlords of the former, for the water of their microfazens, it's not fun for them, it's not luxury for them, it's a possibility of a safe and hungry existence. The bill needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u111	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Of course, such bills cannot be supported. But the budget is already in place, and Carmazin has the right thing to do, and these changes to the budget need to be done, and this money is additional, first of all not saying what kind of money this money is going to take from January 1st, 2006. Then it'll be smart.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection regarding the benefits of the disabled. Registration number 6452. Please vote. Based on the base. [[18:11:40]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 52, "Regions of Ukraine" - 39, People's Party - 23, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "One Ukraine" - 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, Postfaction - 10. What, what? Dear colleagues, I'll bet you to come back. But if there is no solution, you understand. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law registration number 6452. Please vote. [[18:12:37]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Thus, the distinguished national deputies, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock on Wednesday. Thanks for the job.
