ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:29]] The 412 National Deputies and Cards were registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of issues according to the schedule. From the procedure? Please, Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u2	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't want to, of course, talk about unpleasant things, but I can see that we have a tradition today so that we can start the session late. When there's a question on the Conciliation Council, and the MPs are sitting in the hall, you might say not to go out and talk about how long it's been going on, and again today and in the morning, and now we're starting with, well, let's say three minutes, but they're still holding meetings. I think we need to stop this practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u3	If it is fair, then it is fair to go nowhere. We'll do it. Chernewsky, please. Microphone, please turn it on. Out of the way, please. The stenogram was shown by Chernewsky, the name mentioned. Well, I looked in the transcript. It's in the transcript. Well, respectable colleagues, well, there's a last name. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u4	Mr. Solomatin always reminds me of all the crap and fatty, here's a new commie buddy, right? And it's a complete disgrace. It's not enough that Solomon's been around for years? Flight's probably 120. Why are you sitting here in this Supreme Hall, a man who's been out of his mind all the time, talking shit about me? What are these things? This should be evaluated. They speak for each and every one of them, gentlemen of their comrades. Disgusting, yes, and that's it. In addition, the position in Iraq. I'm definitely against the withdrawal of the troops. In Iraq, let the Communists know because there was a villain who took power in an unconstitutional way. This is exactly the same as the Communist Party of Ukraine has recently supported. And, of course, they'd be happy to have Hussain here instead of their leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u5	Dear National Deputies! One minute, they've already exchanged. I'm asking you to exchange lines, please. I want to say it again. In the transcript. Dear colleagues! Don't yell, please. Dear colleagues! Today on demand. Calm down, please. Today, a fair and correct observation was made by the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council that the deputies should speak on the subject. And it was noted to the national deputy Yuri Petrovich Solomatin that there was a need to speak on the subject. Now you've brought me a transcript of Chernewicki, his last name is mentioned. So I had to give my word. I didn't give him the word till noon. It's called the leader of the Christian Party, the leader of the Pravex Bank and so on and then the name is called. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues! Let's not turn the Supreme Council into a mess. A draft Law amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, registration number 4594, is being announced for consideration. [[on the violation of the rules of protection of nadr]] Corpanya Vijacheslav Mihajlovich, Deputy Head of the National Committee of Natural Resources, will be the coreporter of Alexyuk Sergiyyyyyovich, please calm down. Leonid Mikhailovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u6	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code was developed in accordance with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 6 June 2003 on urgent measures to increase the effectiveness of drug use in Ukraine, with the aim of increasing criminal responsibility in the field of drug use, in the illicit extraction of useful fossils of public value. What's the point? The point is that, according to article 6 of the Ukrainian Code on Nadra since July 27, 94, useful fossils are divided into useful fossils of state-owned and useful fossils of local importance. Such beneficial fossils as the common ones referred to in article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine do not separate legislation on nadra. Thus, the current article in Ukraine contains an inaccuracies to be corrected. The adoption of the aforementioned amendments to the Criminal Code will increase the responsibility of business entities under special licenses for the use of the rubble and illegal mining of beneficial mines of public value, and will also enable the illegal mining of beneficial mines of general state importance to be halted. I would like to point out that the Main Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of the bill, namely, the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, recommends that a bill be considered on a reduced basis and adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also supported this bill. Please also support the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 240 of the Criminal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u7	Viachelav Mihajlovich and you please sit down, Alexiyuk Sergeyyyovich, from the Committee on Legislative Protection
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. A committee on law enforcement dealt with the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 240 of the Criminal Code by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill proposes to clarify the scope of article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code by replacing the words “except the generalized” with the words “national importance”. But I would like to say a few words in such a direction that, unfortunately, only today, it is meant, unfortunately, that only the Committee on Natural Use has referred to these points of the Criminal Code. And on these different points, there are a few words in every article that needs to start governing the Criminal Code itself today. And the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council's Apparatus supports this bill, but it gives such a small conclusion. At the same time, it should be noted that this law is passed by the government of Ukraine and applies only to one of the hundreds of similar inaccuracies contained in the current Ukrainian Criminal Code. So we need to go with you and the newly elected Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council to address these inaccuracies that are in the Criminal Code and make a huge effort to correct these little inaccuracies that are the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis and voted as a law of Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u9	Thank you, Sergey Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a discussion if national MPs insist. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man We need two to go, two to go. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, this is a rare occasion when I go to this rostrum to discuss the bill with pleasure. And not just because I'm a mining engineer, a geophysic, and my life has not been in banks and other similar institutions, but in mines, mines, in spaces where a geologist spends his life. I would like to say that the essence of this bill is already explained. It is necessary to clarify that beneficial fossils, in accordance with the Code of Law on Nadra, are divided into national and local meanings. And that's understandable, and you could end up with that. But I want to draw our common attention to the fact that we have human rights, but we are not talking about the rights of nations or people. But there are rights for all mankind. So that's what's on top of it, it's what the creator's task is for all of humanity, not one individual person, if he's found these useful fossils, and not even one nation that's within the borders of the state, that's where the fossils are useful, and I'm stressing to all of humanity. And so today, when our world is so narrow, and the Earth Ball is so small, we're coming with you to emphasize the value of fossils to all mankind, not to one separate nation, because globalization processes require that. But on this road, we are facing a very big problem. Or globalization will reach the limit when, on behalf of all mankind, the gold billion of mankind under the United States of America will be used as useful fossils, while others will be licked, or really useful fossils will be used by all the people of all mankind. So let's give this particular bill, which is designed to take care of what belongs to both previous generations and to today's generation to which we refer, and to future generations, it has been used properly to treat this generation with care. I urge you to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u11	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Leonidas of Chernowitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u12	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, do we need to amend the Criminal Code, which applies to one word, to replace the words "except the common" with the words "national"? Obviously, there are two options: the first option is to change the legislation on nadra, where you write what is "generally common," and the second option is not to change that legislation and put it under the Criminal Code. So there are only two choices. Since we went this way, we can go this way, because in accordance with article six of the Code on Nadra, which we adopted back in 94, useful fossils were divided only into national and local meanings, such as the generalized ones do not yet exist in legislation. Although experts at one time said that was the way to say it. But in this all the changes proposed on behalf of the government. That's one word, just one word. Ladies and gentlemen, I pay attention to the complexity of the way legislation is being repaired. Since the adoption of the new Criminal Code, three years have passed, both the government and the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, and the Attorney-General's Office, and tax administrations, and all other bodies, and the Security Service, have been able to generalize the application of the new Criminal Code. And we need to see where and what we need to correct and by one legislative act we need to change where we can correct these words or write others. But I would like to pay attention while there are government leaders here who privatized the oligarchs. Is that legal? Can you do that? And what, there is no criminal responsibility? But in the course of the summer, you gave up when we were in session breaks. Stocks were given for the coins, and today those deposits, the owners of them, are monopolizing prices. And today the price goes to metal, and then they say, what is the bread, what is it that costs? Because he's a peasant. You're selling more. Who took him? We need to take immediate action to break those agreements that are still there. Therefore, the distinguished national deputies, of course, can be accepted in the first reading. But I'm paying attention to the profile committees, the heads of the Supreme Council, his deputies, that such meager bills should no longer be passed by the new government. It's supposed to call off all such bills, review, systematize and make changes here comprehensively, if it's a government, not a separate government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u13	Leonid Mikhailovich Černovetský, faction of Our Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for giving me the opportunity to say. As far as the bill is concerned. I can't say anything for or against, I think it's a phraseology that will improve investigative practice. But I want to say the following for those who listen to our broadcast. Most importantly, we have adopted a mass of laws that are vital to the Ukrainian people. They're laws. There are decisions of the Constitutional Court that prohibit, for example, treatment for people's money, there are 206 articles that are meant to apply to those who create obstacles to entrepreneurs who create new jobs. We have adopted a million such articles. Today, Vladimir Mihajlovich, it is essential that these laws be implemented. I specifically requested the Supreme Court, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. There's some sitting around talking. God, you don't know shit! Well, I'd like to hear it! It would be more interesting. And most importantly, it's not being observed. Every second I make that speech, people don't heal. They're forced to buy medicine for money. It's about the communists. I wonder if you'd like to do this separately. Where are the criminal cases against those doctors who treat money and do operations? Where are criminal cases against those who interfere with entrepreneurs and good public property managers? No criminal proceedings! Work somewhere! We vote in favour of calling it off now. My grandmother's stories. I voted in principle against the withdrawal of peacekeepers from Iraq, because I believe that every villain who took power in his country must be called to order and shoved up his ass, Christianally, without killing or hanging, as did the Communists for 70 years, not Ukrainians who sit here. Of course they didn't. I'm talking about who they were. And I'm talking about what happened. It is therefore very important to create jobs today, not to talk about nonsense, nor to engage in politics. I'm talking about the laws in Ukraine being enforced. The Attorney General's Office should review all the bills, Vladimir Mihajlovich. And we must take a separate ruling on this issue, which we have recently adopted. And tell you how they are fulfilled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u15	Thank you. After the end. Let's get it over with, then. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Mikhail Melniczuk's microphone, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u16	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Of course, the bill must be supported. At least we'll say that there's one sentence whether it's prepared or professional or not, but it's on the Supreme Council's agenda today and the Socialist Party faction will support it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you. For the past two months, trying to influence MPs all the time that they have no right to speak, but it has nothing to do with who they call, someone who is sick, someone who is not sick. It is the essence of this law, and there are examples of life. So that we do not make mistakes when we accept and we would like to warn those who pass these bills. I would like to turn to Viacheslav Mikhailovich for this reason. Viachelav Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you, don't pay any attention, look here, please, and listen. We're talking about criminal responsibility. I'll give you an example of the region of Cherniv. [[Novoselt region]] You've granted permission to use both of the Mamlazi plaster factory. At the same time, the documents that have been filed, they have been falsified, unaccounted for, let us speak, the opinion of the deputies of the district council, the deputies of the district council. You went around the district government that asked you what, look what you're doing. You'll say, I'm sure that's where the money bags went, because these nagras will be used in 50 years, and there are investors who are willing to work there today to develop the territory, and that's what the population that lives in this area really needs. So speaking of criminal responsibility, I would like to address you. Viacheslav Mihajlovich, please check my information and tell me whether I was right or wrong, because we cannot fail to count the territory where these nadars are located, the opinion of those deputies who live there, from the village council to the district council to the district government. You didn't take that into account, the deputy signed the permit, and today we have to dig up the problems that we have today in the territory. I didn't deviate from the subject of conversation, but I wanted to focus again, we're adopting laws to ensure that they're implemented and not circumvented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u17	For reasons like this, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! In the legislative business, there's no small talk, there's no nonsense. Every word matters. And we just have another example of how we can't ignore that rule. The bill proposes to replace the words "except the popular" with the words "national importance". And that's absolutely right. Because beneficial fossils are national and local and are not commonplace. It was stupid. And now the legislator is correcting this little thing at the same time. But the Criminal Code still has a hundred such inaccuracies, and this is evidence of a lack of work. And we're going to have to correct them further, and we can't stop at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u19	Now we're going to vote, Peter Stepanovich, I remember that you have a line. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! The vote is coming. A proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and, as a whole, as a law, is submitted to the vote, the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 240 of the Criminal Code, registration number 4594. Please vote. [[16:26:15]] For 245 The law is passed. I put it as a foundation and generally as a law. The law is passed. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please turn on the microphone for the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine. A few minutes ago, a recent candidate from the Supreme Council spoke to the Presidents, and I will not call his last name, which during the election got a little more votes than in his family and a little more than works at his personal bank, whose personal car, including the deathly traumatized by more than one Ukrainian citizen. He was trying to cast a shadow on the Communist faction, because now we're going to the end of this session, so I'd like this person who's rarely in a session to give such information that a faction of Communists submitted over 100 social bills for this session, which involved increasing wages, pensions and much more. And so look at yourself, look for those reserves that should be used for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u21	A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on correspondence with the European Court of Human Rights, registration number 6038, is being announced for consideration. The reporter, Minister of Justice Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, will be the co-rapporteur of the First Vice - Chief of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Bandurk Alexander Markovich. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u22	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, this bill is extremely short, I have now heard criticism at the address of such bills, and it refers to the addition of two laws: the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine and the Pre-Prisonment Act to add only two words: "European Court of Human Rights." Why should we do so? Because the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified a convention that provides for the protection of human rights, which provides for the possibility of communicating with the European Court of Human Rights without any control. The European Court of Justice is already in practice when a decision was taken against the Polish State, for communication was controlled by the institutions in which people were held, for which a decision was taken to deprive them of their will. That's all, there's no more proposals here, because the proposal for a professional committee is based on the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and I'm going to try, in your experience, to explain briefly what there is, let's say, a certain discrepancy in the approaches of a specialist in science and science, who was preparing this conclusion. First. The conclusion is that the draft foresees an unsupervised letter with the European Court of Human Rights and does not provide the same opportunity for correspondence with other international institutions, such as the International Committee against Torture and others. In this regard, it should be noted that, unlike other international institutions that have the right to draw only advisory conclusions that are not binding on enforcement, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights is required to implement in Ukraine in accordance with the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights had already done so, and I did not want Ukraine to have such precedents. The other one. According to the conclusion, only a single professionally trained person is able to properly address and add all necessary documents to the European Court of Human Rights if he is held in places of deprivation of liberty or prior imprisonment. I certainly agree mainly with this position, but at the same time I would like to point out that the first six decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights concerning Ukraine concerned those individuals who were sentenced to permanent deprivation of liberty. At the same time, none of the applicants experienced difficulties in preparing applications to the European Court of Justice, as well as problems with the documents underlying the applications. It must also be noted, based on the experience we already have, that the interests of Ukraine are represented in the European Court of Human Rights, which in the event that the applicant cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u24	In support of his claim regarding his whereabouts at the places of disqualification, the European Court of Justice is required to provide these documents to the government of Ukraine. That is the kind of request we have already made in one of the cases that has been drawn up in the European Court of Justice. Third. The conclusion also includes a list of project requirements, including the possibility of meeting without hindrance with a lawyer or representative to prepare a complaint before the European Court of Human Rights. I just want to point out that these issues are already settled. In particular, part two of the article of the Eighth Penal Code, as well as article nine of the Ukrainian Law on "Pre-prisonment". So to say that this should be written specifically in this law does not seem to be entirely correct. Four. The conclusion also includes proposals to supplement the draft law with a standard whereby specially trained staff in places of disqualification should assist in the formulation of applications to the relevant institution. This is a direct intervention in the secret of correspondence with the European Court of Justice. And such a law, if adopted, would be the subject of an examination of the inadequacy of European human rights conventions. So this is not even to be taken into account. Fifth. The conclusion contains comments to the draft Law on the need for further changes, since article eight of the Ukrainian Criminal Code contains the right of convicted persons to apply for proposals, applications and complaints to certain addressees, including the European Court of Human Rights. It should be borne in mind that according to this standard, a convicted person may make appropriate submissions to certain authorities to improve conditions of detention in places deprived of his will. This is the norm that contains a comprehensive list of proposals, statements, complaints. The project is only proposed to add to the Attorney General and the Human Rights Commissioner the right of the prisoner to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. I can continue here some argument in practice, after the statements that came to the European Court of Human Rights. And today there are twelve cases of prisoners in the European Court of Justice concerning Ukraine, and no one has had any problems filing these cases. In this context, I want to say that this is a case where no position in the conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration has any ground. And that's why it's hard to think of them as reasonable. So I would like to ask you to view this bill as an extension of the rights of Ukrainian citizens who are in places of deprivation and who may experience illegal interference in their lives and rights that are guaranteed in places of deprivation. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The truth about one sentence you spoke for six minutes. Please, Bandurka Alexander Markovich is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u26	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that we are considering guaranteeing the right of defendants to write to the European Court of Human Rights. The Minister of Justice has reported that the bill proposes to amend article 113 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment, with a view to granting persons sentenced to be deprived of their liberty, as well as persons taken into custody, the right to send letters without hindrance to the European Court of Human Rights. In support of the idea of empowering individuals in question, the committee concluded that the bill did not actually extend these rights, but merely created an illusion of expanding them. It is well - known that a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights must meet certain requirements under the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950. These requirements are not simple. Thus, it is only a legal person who has the right practical experience to make a complaint, collect and add the necessary documents. In this connection, it is clear that there is usually no or may be no single person among those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty and those held in institutions for the prior imprisonment of such professionals. The bill has been drafted, in our view, carelessly. Yes, the text of the bill in the explanatory note to it and in the comparative table indicates the different names of the draft, and the title of the bill in the parentheses does not correspond to the contents of the bill because it wrongly provides for all those convicted instead of those convicted of being deprived of their liberty. And that's a very different legal status. In the light of the circumstances noted, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following a first reading of the bill, that its subject should be directed to the right of legislative initiative for further development and that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be reviewed in a reopened first reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council is also of the view that it is appropriate to send for re-reading. As a whole, the committee itself supports the idea of expanding the rights of those condemned to be deprived of their liberty. But the bill has to be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u27	Thank you, Alexander Markovich, sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Please, solomatin, follow him Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u28	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems as in the previous law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code. The issue of drama should be added to the Criminal Code and to the law on prior imprisonment before the European Court of Human Rights in order to ensure that prisoners are entitled, even theoretically, to this institution. But I have this question: what exactly is it in our country that we're always saying with such inspiration that "our state" is no longer able to protect such a person? But. will care not only for one individual, but for the population, for the people. Why do we, as in other states of the world community, to which we go, forgive, the world community, have an institution as authorized by human rights, but not authorized by the rights of the people or the rights of the nations? Why does everyone, even the schoolchildren, know that there is a Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but almost no one, even the novices, knows that there is already a Declaration on the Rights of the Nations? I'm explaining it as a communist. In Western society, human rights, Western human rights are higher than the rights of the peoples, and in Eastern societies, including that in the Soviet Union, the rights of the peoples were higher than those of one individual individual. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich. I think that the proposal that the committee came up with: voting for this bill to be drafted -- she's right. I support such an offer. But I want to ask all of us, and I specifically address all of us: let's protect, first of all, the fundamental rights of the people, so that we don't have what's happening today. In recent years, since 1991, there has been a decline in the population of the Ukrainian people by four million, four million people who have passed away. Seven million workers are moving from Tumeni to Portugal in search of employment to earn and keep their family. This is where rights are fundamentally violated. Let's make sure that ours is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u29	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. He's behind him, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, Your Honor. I have studied carefully now both the comments and the suggestions of the committee. I mean, there really are problems. On July 17, 1997, the Supreme Council ratified the 1950 Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the First Protocol, the Second, Fourth, Seventh and Eleventh Protocols. In accordance with the rules of this convention, the acceding countries are obliged not to interfere with the effective exercise of the right of appeal of any person, non-governmental organization or group of persons to the European Court of Human Rights. Thus, the additions that are now being proposed are intended, in an idea, to meet Ukraine’s commitments. It's only a question, and I understand why the committee said how this would be implemented. That's the offer. And there's a question and there's a proposition before the committee's implementation. The question is whether the second reading can supplement these proposals in what way to implement them, since the legislative acts that we have today provide that there is no way to review the correspondence sent to the prosecutor, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, letters, statements, proposals and complaints. But there is no record of the European Court of Human Rights. But the norm of the International Convention has been ratified in accordance with the Constitution, is mandatory, is a norm of direct action. So there is a historic decision made against Poland, in the case of Matwichuk v. Poland, where the administration reviewed and then condemned the state for what they viewed. Therefore, it seems to me that the solution to this situation is to be accepted in the first reading, necessarily by the fact that a person has to follow the legal procedures that are established with regard to the text of the appeal itself, which will lead to the inability to consider it, the procedures for the content of the appeal, and the form of the submission of evidence, the conduct of all judicial institutions. Before that, they are subject to further development and some reconciliation. And I think in this case this is the bill that we're looking for. It needs to be accepted, but it's going to have to work out a little bit. Well, I'd like to change the committee's anger to mercy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u31	Yes, please, Chernowitz. Behind him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u32	Dear Chairman! Respectable People's Deputies and everyone who listens to us! Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I want to say this. This is the first act that the Ministry of Justice has submitted to the new power that has come, thank God, the people of Ukraine. And I'll tell you that all the years that Mr. Lavrinovich's ministry has been running a policy of provocation towards democracy and freedom. That's the first one. The law and the law were written in such a way that Lavrinovich did not look at it, because it was totally useless to use it. But to vote, I agree with the communists and the speaker, Mr. Carmazin, it is imperative that we vote in favour of this law. Because today is full of people who are convicted illegally. I can also say about myself, including that two years in opposition, except that every criminal ministry has nothing but me and other MPs, thank God, they're going to lift their heads today, and in "regions" and in the SDPU, many feel like people. And it's a good thing the new power came. But it's bad that Mr. Lavrinović did such a bad thing. That's the first one. And the second. I said we have to vote in favour of this law. Moreover, I, not Mr. Lavrinović, submit to the qualification boards, on each occasion we have overturned the European courts with complaints from workers, including communists. I don't know which one of you Communist gentlemen filed such complaints, and I filed them for twenty or thirty. [[Comrades, yes, if you only call me a comrade.]] As soon as I see the European Court ruling overturning our decision, I submit that the judge is expelled. But no one controls it. There's no one out there. He's still working. Although some judges make fun of the workers. That's to your attention, it's very important that you understand when you vote for this law. The question itself is very important, yes. And what Mr. Lavrinović is pouring out between the right and the left today is, obviously, it's for an unacceptable journal and it's starting to read the laws, in general, the Constitution has gone from one side to the other -- it's, let him hear it, the traitoric ideology that was. But this Law, it's as if there's no good reason, but on first reading it must be
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u33	Yes. Please, Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Cherniewecka District, All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the bill submitted by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be supported, although we agree with the Committee's members and the Committee's profile on what needs to be worked out, but to take a step towards a better one, we should. And that's what we have to do today because we haven't been allowed to do it all this time, and let's ask ourselves the question: Article 113 of the Criminal Code, article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison Prisons, gives convicts the right to go to the European Court of Justice. Why are our courts not trusted in society today? I'd like to say that I don't agree with someone who says that we don't have a court system. We have done this because the judge today belongs to the head of the district district district administration, because he will not give any funding. Let us make the courts in Ukraine independent, and then the need to appeal to the European Court of Justice will be eliminated. But as long as we do that, we have to think today about what, on the first reading, we can vote in this bill. And I think that after we've done that, really judicial reform in Ukraine, when the courts are really going to be independent, and we see in the steps that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is doing in both the first and second rounds of elections. And today he has to look at it. As he will consider, I am confident that within the framework of the law, and it will be an honest consideration. So we need to build a judicial system so that the need to think more about some people who live there working on corruption or bribes is reversed. This will be an independent judicial system of Ukraine. I believe that because we will build a new Ukraine with you after the President's election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I'm talking to Alexander Markovich, in his person with the profile committee. Perhaps, indeed, let us listen to the thought of accepting it in the first reading. As long as the new Cabinet of Ministers is working on it, they can forget about it. And if you work on the profile committee for second reading, then, of course, you do what you can, as you see it, and we're going to accept it in second reading, just as you should. And what's necessary is that we should give the defendant the right to go wherever he is, even though he is to the Lord God, I think the logic here is clear. That is why I ask, my fellow Members, to support the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on correspondence with the European Court of Human Rights. Registration number 6038. Please vote. [[16:50:57]] For-179 Then there's a proposal for a profile committee to work on. Please vote. [[16:51:21]] For 263 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund is under consideration. [[about form and use]] Report to Minister Grigory Vasilovich Reva. Please, Gregory Vasilovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u36	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's INS draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund should improve its activities with the creation, maintenance and use of the Documentation Insurance Fund, the specification of the provisions of the Act, its provisions in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine. The bill provides for the organization of terminology, the substantial expansion of the circle of subjects of the State system of the Documentation Fund, the extension of the law to the State executive authorities in the areas, regions, regions of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol. The mandate of ministries and other central executive bodies is also specified, namely, their more clearly defined actions regarding the development and origin of the State Department of the Documentation Insurance Fund, the Sectoral Programmes, and the formation of the Documentation Insurance Fund. In addition, local government administrations and local self - government authorities have been designated to authorize the development and harmonization of nomenclature and lists of objects, which are subject to the application of documentation to district regional insurance funds. Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund is accepted by nine of the 13 central executive authorities without any notice, and the proposals made are taken into account. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State Budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u37	Thank you, Gregory Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Member of the National Security and Defence Committee, Simonov Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The National Security and Defence Committee of November 3, 2004, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund, registration number 6033, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project is designed to improve regulation of activities from the creation, formation, introduction and use of an insurance fund of documentation, and to specify the provisions of the law to ensure that tasks are completed in full. Improving activities in this area is of great national importance, since it is an effective, reliable and expeditious application of strategic, defence, mobilizational and economical documentation for the execution of construction, reconstruction, emergency and disaster recovery work during emergencies and a special period, as well as for the preservation of cultural heritage. The proposed bill, supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, individual ministries, other central executive authorities. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers it appropriate to support the proposed legislative proposal. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the decision of the National Security and Defence Committee and to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u39	Thank you. Respectful fellow workers may not need to be discussed? Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund. [[about form and use]] Registration number 6033. Please vote. [[16:56:00]] For 241 Decision taken. There were proposals for a profile committee, and this, in principle, agrees with the scientific expertise, to accept it as a law as a whole. No objections? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian Documentation Insurance Fund, Bill No. 6033. Please vote. [[16:56:40]] For 256 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act is being complied with. [[on arms advertising]] Registration number 5569. Here we have the first Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Kazakov Valeri Petrovich. Please. Prepare Yavorowski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, at the direction of the Cabinet of Ministers, addressed the issue of making changes to article 23 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. The point is that the first paragraph of this article states that arms advertising can only take place in relevant specialized publications on weapons or directly in the premises of commercial enterprises that implement weapons or on appropriate exhibitions. During the study of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, along with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Justice, the State Inspectorate, the State Export Control, the National Space Agency and the State Enterprise Ukrespecexport, it was established that the standard of this paragraph of article 23 was very strict in regulating the order of arms advertising. And there are virtually other types of legislation that also regulate this order. In particular, the production of the defence and industrial complex produced in Ukraine is advertised in this way: the order of negotiations with foreign delegations is established, which is regulated by the regulation of State control over the negotiation of external economic contracts for international transfers of military supplies and dual use. This position is approved by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers has approved instructions on how to protect the State’s secret, as well as other information with limited access, which is the property of the State when foreign delegations, groups and individual aliens are accepted and dealt with. Thus, the experts of our ministry and the departments and departments involved were established to take into account the existing regulatory framework of the part. paragraph 1 of the Part. Article 23 on arms advertising is enough for the State to control. could control all necessary restrictions. We have worked with the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have come to the conclusion that, if the ministries, the central authorities of the executive branch are determined that there are no special warnings to the existing order established in article 23, paragraph 1, the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information believes that it is possible. The committee does not object to considering excluding this rule from the law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u41	Thank you, Valery Petrovich. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the electronic media subcommittee of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. That's the point. There's already a fellow deputy minister here. I'll just remind you again what this is about. This is a very short article 23 of the Advertising Act, and I'll read it to you. Paragraph 23, paragraph 1, of the article. "A weapons advertisement can only be made in relevant specialized publications on weapons or directly in the premises of commercial enterprises that implement weapons, or at appropriate exhibitions." [[pronunciation]] And there was a second point that sounds like this. "The order of advertising of weapons of war, weapons and military technology, as well as weapons which may be owned by persons under the law, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." It is about taking away the opportunity in the Cabinet of Ministers, as it were, to direct themselves, to set certain standards and order for the advertising of weapons of war. I think it's a normal civilized norm. In addition, it robs officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of the possibility of getting into corruption or taking bribes and so forth. The proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers was discussed at our committee meeting, we supported this proposal in order to delete the second paragraph of this article from the bill, and then there will be only one thing left to advertise weapons only in relevant specialized publications on weapons or directly in the premises of commercial establishments, enterprises that implement weapons or at appropriate exhibitions and actions. I think it's a very normal and civilized approach to this question, a question of course very complex and dangerous -- advertising weapons in today's world and in our yet, unfortunately, unstable Ukraine. Because of this, the Committee on Freedom of Speech asks you to support this article by voting and removing it and to seize the right to establish regulations for the promotion of military weapons and technology in the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention. The committee believes you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u43	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, for the meaningful reasoning. Can we please talk about this? We will. Solomatin, then. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u44	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Let's say that there was a report in our room that during the election campaign, when there was a lot of tension and belief in passions on the orange field, there was six times more sales of weapons of individual use in the respective trading venues. Whom could this weapon have been used even without advertising? So I'd like you and I not to worry about helping the state sort out the advertising, the products from the defence complex, even without us, and without advertising, they're going to sell what we have that's undeniable. For example, the same Rings around which passions were ripped out are bought even without advertising. Our, forgive me, rockets will buy, even without advertising, but I would like to focus with you on advertising that touches weapons even hunters, even those that can be used in those passions that occasionally occur in our society. And that's why I don't think it's appropriate for the government to be out of control of advertising what goes into private hands. Let us understand with you the situation in our country today. If we take away the government's control of arms flows from trading facilities to private individuals, if we even advertise the collapse that is now almost uncontrollable and without it going into private hands, we will contribute to arming not the people, but to arming those forces that can take action against the people, but they will protect certain corporate interests, even certain political interests. So let's not put pink or orange glasses on our eyes and imagine that we might get into a very unpleasant situation, so I personally think that our faction, it was determined by this question of the inconvenientity of supporting this bill, even its rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u45	Yes. Please, Puzakov, prepare Karmazin, but please read the bills carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u46	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Implementing the provisions of the bill will lead to the economy of financial and material costs and will contribute to the increase in the volume and increase of exports of military supplies. The changes made to article 23 will contribute to the establishment of a clear and transparent weapon advertising system and stimulate the growth of the professional level of arms manufacturers and military technology in the field of advertising their products. The positive thing about the law is that arms advertising can only be done in appropriate special editions regarding weapons or in the premises of commercial establishments that implement weapons or in appropriate exhibitions. Of course, this bill should contribute to the successful exit of the Ukrainian arms producer to international markets. But that doesn't mean that the right to own weapons should be massive. In recent times, I have been approached by voters who are very concerned about the availability of weapons for young people. It's true. During the last two weeks, more than 9,000 firearms were legally purchased in Kiev. Is it much or little? That's for the authorities to think about. There is no need to create a tense environment in the country. The events of the last month indicate that order will now be directed only by weapons. Because among the orange students in Maidan, there were people in camouflage with special Chevrons in appearance and actions, who could be said to have received special training to participate in such actions and armed for the entire program. That's how democratic in the paws and, frankly, in the paws, they also solved the issue of power. After all, we Communists warned in the summer that in Poland they were preparing Ukrainian troops of fighters to gain power in Ukraine. The time has come not only to talk about a democratic state but also to act democratically, that is, without weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u47	Please, Karmazin. After him, he's Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u48	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand today. First of all, why do we only consider the Arms Promotion Act with this committee -- freedom of speech, and we don't hear from any other law enforcement committee? And I'd like to hear their opinion very much. It is to my colleague Yavorowski that I address, whom I respect very much, as the whole of Ukraine. But they had to be involved and invited to perform today. Because I see that the deletion of part two of article 23, which provides that the order of advertising of weapons of war, weapons, military technology, and weapons that may be owned by individuals under the law, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I want to ask, who's in the way? Who is in the way? If the Cabinet of Ministers sets up order if it's settled by position, whatever, and it's more detailed on how to do this ad. Not just in specialized editions or directly in the premises. We're told that this will reduce bureaucracy, because order is set for one and a long time. To implement an article of this kind, it's the order of things. That's it. What are we afraid of? I know that when they passed this law, they thought it was a specific kind of weapon, a specific kind of advertising. So I don't think that if the Cabinet of Ministers takes that right, the bad Cabinet of Ministers, there's going to be another, there's going to be another bad, there's going to be another change. They'll change as long as they're good as the Cabinet of Ministers. But what they're taking from the Cabinet of Ministers is still the uncertainty of that order. It will not be foreshadowed. So I think that's a reduction in the regulatory level. This is a step backwards, not forward. And I think in that case, or we have in the law to prescribe this order that we gave Kabmin's right. And just to eliminate Kabmin's right to determine order and no one to define it, and not to define it, not to detail it in the law, because that's the only way out, is not quite right. That is why I will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u49	Thank you. Yes, please, Chernowitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u50	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I've been dreaming of two things in my life lately: giving them to every communist in Giguli, if they support my Law to a committee especially to eliminate all the privileges and privileges that have yet to pass from the Soviet times of Tsekov and are still being used by the authorities. And the second is on the gun when we adopt the Weapons Act. That's the first one. Because Lenin still dreamed that the people would be armed to defend their rights against bureaucrats. And that'll be fine. Because, in principle, weapons are allowed in many countries of the world, and nothing happens. On the other hand, in Latvian, Baltic countries, crime has been reduced, and there is a very different approach to these guards, because all the guards who have any authority today are mainly involved in writing information on it in the KGB, the Ministry of Internal Affairs or elsewhere. In general, it is a non-State function to protect, including the people's deputies. But that's what I'm talking about, the law that I'm proposing about weapons, because it's a law that's very important not to kill the incensors, not to kill the police once more, who have never been taught or paid a lousy salary. But with regard to permits, in any case, I will only once with Yuri Anatoleevich, whom I highly respect, disagree, and I think he will vote in favour of this bill, because the more permission from the Cabinet of Ministers, the more bribes they will take. And there's nothing else, is there? Each permit is a separate bribe. Who doesn't understand? We haven't gotten to that yet. So if you're talking about a simple thing like advertising that needs some kind of permission, uh-oh! Well, let's get all the permission, and take a breath from them, this Cabinet of Ministers, and see how we breathe without bribes. We'll pay for every breath. That is all we can do if we do not vote for another law that liberalizes the economy. That's it. I can't say anything more special about that. On the gun every Communist Party activist immediately, as soon as you vote on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u51	Let the kids write to their parents, you forgot to tell them. Please, with Black people's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! Since there is a weapon, there is a trade, since there is a trade, there is advertising. But it's a specific kind of advertising, and that requires a legislative settlement. The bill is aimed at liberalizing this process, he, the legislator, proposes to take this right into the Cabinet of Ministers. But I agree with Deputy Karmazin that there is no further order, who will do it, and what will be the order. This is the first time. And secondly, we need to make a transparent weapon advertising system. The first reading is conceptual reading. I would, with one eye closed, conceptually support the bill. But we need to work on it in our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to pay attention to this law he's talking about. The first sentence of this law lays down by law the rules of arms advertising, and it establishes the law. Look at the article -- what's this? -23: "Arms advertisements can only be made in relevant specialized publications on weapons.'--and so on. The law establishes. On the other hand, the second sentence gave the Cabinet of Ministers the right to copy our law. Because the second sentence says that weapons, as it were, already have the right to establish some new rules of the Cabinet of Ministers. Why? This is set up for the promotion of all weapons by law. It's written in the law. And no one has the right, especially the Cabinet of Ministers to clarify our laws. So I think we all have reasons to vote in favour of this law -- and to take the right to intervene in the Cabinet of Ministers on behalf of the Supreme Council. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act on arms advertising, registration number 5569. Please be actively supportive. [[17:18:22]] For 210. Dear colleagues, a little. I get it, I get it. Come on. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 33, "Regions" - 12, Communists - 58, SDPU - 19, National Agrarian - 25, "Only Ukraine" - 10, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 11, NDP, "Trud Ukraine" - 5, "Soyuz" - 7, "Deminicatives" - 0, "Centre" - 2, "Afterfraction" - 8. Once again, dear fellows. I get it. We didn't make it. Let us go back and vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of this bill. Please vote. [[17:19:19:19]] For 268. Thank you, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, there's nothing to send for second reading. Vote for adoption as a whole as a law? Please vote. Yes, please, vote. [[17:19:47]] For 204 Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone. Now. There, I understand, is some refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am firmly opposed to such an approach. First of all, you've given an interpretation that's a little bit misleading people, and you understand that very well. Why? Because it's written that it's done in specialized editions and so forth in the law. And there's no order in the law. Let's take away the order that Kabmin is doing, I don't deny it, and let's write down for ourselves what to do and how to do it. And if it's written directly in the law, the direct norm of the law, no one will deny it. But this can only be done on second reading. And if we just delete it, it'll be vachanal. Understand this, Adam Ivanovich! These are serious things. We've already been charged with earrings, for everything else. These are very serious things. This order then has to be written down for us, not just eliminated. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, in the first reading he was accepted; in the second, he did not. Let's let the committee deal, we'll make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u55	Thank you. Well, given that Yuri Anatoliyevich wants to work on the law, although I think it's clear there, let's go to the second reading, because there's a denial. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. Bill 5357 registration number. Reported by Czernovetský Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Prepare the Widow. Leonide Mikhailovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Chernovetski. I want to say this. I've come across a very serious problem. For many years, I have been serving a dining room that thousands of people go to. What's their main problem? They come from different cities, they work in construction, or their mother prescribes, or their daughter prescribes her mother, you can't get a pension, you can't get unemployment benefits. A million problems. The pen and registration they created for this is a criminal document, because in fact, to get a person out of the trash, he was given an unemployment benefit. [[We've passed laws.]] But to do that, he has to go back beyond the kurds of the mountains. We have millions of citizens running around the country, and they can't get a normal medical or pension or insurance policy, but the main money in the unemployment funds, they break these funds, they don't know where their girls are, they can't get it, because they need an official penance. In my law, I suggested that this official drink would be declared by the citizen to be a semi-annual residence in a certain place, which could always be checked by both the district and any other person. [[And he'll be able to get a passport and go to jail.]] But this is a problem for millions of citizens. Half of Ukraine today because there are no jobs, it migrates, the villages are empty, and we have denied these people the right to receive unemployment benefits, we make them scum, they will soon be happening. It's a nightmare. Not enough, I'm telling you, they don't take you to hospitals, they don't treat you. There's a decree in every city of the next town, so that that's all it takes. That's the problem. Please accept this Law in the first reading, and in general, and this is a very important Law that will affect the lives of so many people, we will give them a chance. Yeah? Because today they're digging in the garbage and looking for food. And their place in a beautiful unemployment fund without a turn to get their money and stand on the computer in line for work and get requalified. We accepted so much good, including with the help of Communists. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u57	Thank you. From the Professional Committee, Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Hennady Josephovich Udovenko, please, Hennaday Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, this is a very important project proposed by the Czernovetsk People’s Deputy, its proposals are of a precise nature, since it is a matter of introducing additional terms. The adoption by the Supreme Council of the Law on the Freedom of Residence and Movement in Ukraine is, well, a revolutionary law. Not orange, not white and blue, not yellow and blue, it's a very important law that we've adopted by the Supreme Council and it's working. It's hard to change your mentality, and you know people are demanding that you give unnecessary documents, prove that you live here. This law, the amendments of Chernewsky, they are humane, it's about people who have no place to live, let's think about these people and support this bill, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations unanimously supported changes to the law. I repeat, they are precise and are directed at people who do not have a permanent place to live today and have nowhere to go. I don't want to call it exactly the parliamentary rostrum, but there's a lot of homeless people, let's think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u59	Thank you, Gennady Josephovich. Is there a need to discuss? Solomonine renders the word Ponomarenko. Please. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u60	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. In general, it would be advisable to develop a program to eliminate homelessness and to solve the problem of the bums not only when they are registered but also where they live. I agree that we make changes to the laws by changing individual words without amending the laws in fact, without altering the very essence of these people's lives. I wanted to turn to you. Gennady Josephovich, look at the Presidential Elections Act, the People's Deputies Election Act, which refers to this law as a place of residence or a place of residence or a place of registration. We're going to bring about, with these changes, we're going to have to vote for these changes to replace these strong certificates. Today, on the first reading of June 29, we passed the Law on the State Register of Voters, and there was also an open question about whether or not to be included in the State Register of Citizens residing in Ukraine, but not having an established residence, homeless or homeless place. Such citizens are expected to register with the internal affairs authorities, and the residence of such citizens may be considered the address of the internal affairs authority that made the registration. I understand what to do with these people. But I'm telling you, we have to make a number of changes here, including the law on the election of all levels of deputies, because we're going to have a new system of resilient certificates. Leonid Mikhailovich said that we have millions of such people. These millions, two, three million people are going to be, I know they're our people, but they're going to affect those voices. I don't think the faction will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u61	Please, Karmazin. After him, Yavorowski. Yuri Anatolyovich. With the Odessyts, you'll talk to me on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. First of all, I want to say that Leonid Chernewicki is absolutely right in this case. I want to thank him that it's a good bill, and you can accept it both in the first and second readings right away, and he's completely worked out. In fact, there are three key points. There are only three key points. The law was passed on December 11, 2003, if you will remember, on freedom of movement and free choice of residence. And now we've seen a lot of holes in that law. And they need to be filled. And that's why this bill is very precise. In particular, there is such a benefit in article 8. If the person does not have a passport, and she has lost it, but lives in Kiev or elsewhere, or in Odessa, or in Lviv, or in Donetsk, she may request an application for a residence permit and a citizen’s passport. I mean, she doesn't have to go anywhere, pick up, look around. It's already the police that will find form number one, renew the passport and issue it, or, if they don't, they won't, then they'll give the right answer, they'll tell you why they can't do it. Because it will also be possible to charge, including to the courts, as provided for in the current Constitution of Ukraine. What does the second article in the third article bring? He says it's an enrollment, he refines it. This is the introduction of information to the passport document about the place of residence or the place of residence, indicating the address of the residence or the place of residence, which is the majority. And it gives what it is. And article three, also, secondly in article three to two, changes are made; it says that it is a place of residence. This is an administrative and territorial unit in which a person resides or usually stays for at least six months a year. I mean, there's a person living there and there. But these refinements, they're needed. I wouldn't argue that it's just to make the bums smaller, no. A certain part of the population, without having this place written down, deprives a person of many rights, including the right to participate in elections, of receiving various social guarantees. And it is the adoption of this law that will ensure the protection of the rights of our people to whom we care. In two readings, it should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u63	Yes, please, Yavorowski. Behind him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u64	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, it seems to me a very positive effort, a revolutionary law, and it was indeed a revolutionary law, which, after a few decades of penance, bound a person to a particular place of residence that was abolished, of course, it was for our system, for our mentality, for our people, the Law on the Distinguishment of Penitential and the Transition to a purely registration system. Of course, it was a revolutionary law. Because of this, it is only natural that life itself begins to polish the Law and requires certain bonds. That's exactly what we have here. To be honest, in general, in the world’s legislative practice, a bill is adopted, and then a group of people find that it works, that it works, that it works, that doesn’t work at all, and then it is amended. Unfortunately, we're just moving very slowly to this point, and we have very often these amendments are voluntary either under a certain political taste, or under a certain person or under certain even some interests there and so forth. Because of what Chernewsky did today, it's really an attempt to lubricate this painful point. We have a huge irregular migration today, and you know it. Some people lose their homes -- they either get drunk or they put them in some kind of bond and stuff, and they're actually on the street. And this is a very large segment of our society, these people. And the fact that Chernewsky saw them, I'm sure it's good. I have some doubts as to whether it is legally accurate that the word "predominantly lasts no less." What's "mostly"? Obviously, the law should say more accurately, there, well, six months usually or repeatedly or inconstantly. It's worth thinking about. I'm, to be honest, I'm just worried that today, Leonid Chernewicki, in this rostrum, has made some enemies because of his inflammatory character, and I'm very sorry if the Communists, let's say, don't back up or vote for this bill. I'd just like to understand that there are some observations, but in the first reading, I don't think it's going to be designed for elections, although I understand very well your doubts that there might be a loophole for these migrants. But I am convinced that this, if even necessary, will be possible both to clarify both these laws and elections. But the vast number of our people, who are left at the bottom, is not to be hindered or supported today, we simply do not have the right to do so. I'm asking you to forget about everything and support this bill anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u65	Yes, please, Melniczuk Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u66	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear friends, the Socialist Party faction will support this bill. Gennady Josephovich also addressed you, dear friends. So I'm asking you, I'm addressing everyone who hasn't been briefed: please take your starting points so that you can push that button that belongs right to you as the people's deputies, so that we can adopt this bill today. Regarding the warnings that my fellow MPs have made here, I'd still like to ask: let's not be speaking here, one by one about who is in the party, who is in the party, who is in the party. Today there is a Parliament, today we are elected by the people’s deputies. And let's work on the bill. Socialists have always supported and supported those issues and those related to human rights and human freedoms. And most of the population in Ukraine have already made sure of that, at least that we have made the right choice for the election battalions. But I would like to say, Your Honor, that today there is a second round of elections on the tongue of every MP in every average citizen of Ukraine. We can't help but go back to where this right that we're saying is, in fact, the precise nature of today's bill, not to go back to what was done on the second round, and to what was used all over Ukraine to falsify the elections. So this bill has nothing to do with this carousel. And I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this bill and vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u67	Please, what is the Ministry's opinion on this? Please, Suprun Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The very idea of the bill certainly deserves attention. There are questions that have been raised in the fixation of the location of the majority or the majority of the location, there are problems with the norm-design technology. But in general, in the first reading, he can be accepted and developed for adoption in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Motive Black. And then Chernewick's incarcerated. Dear colleagues, the Czernovetsk deputy has proved on another occasion that he is an outstanding humanist and cares for homeless people and not just for homeless people. And if in fact the bill, I would say that the novelty of the bill is to make a difference between the place of residence and the place of residence. And this brings into the legislative field people deprived of their homes. But there are two moments. We really need to clarify the term "place of residence" and, secondly, to make it impossible to manipulate the difference between the place of residence and the place of residence. But then you can do this in specific mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u70	Yes, please, 1 minute to lock the author up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you to all the people's deputies who spoke well of the idea of the Ministry, the Deputy Minister of Justice. There's only one thing I want to do. Respectable goods, Communists! It's just about unemployment funds that break out of billions of dollars of money that can't get your fellow communists and can't get in line because he's here under extraordinary circumstances, and he can't go back because he doesn't have money for a ticket. This is the problem of millions of people. I ask you to vote first on the first reading and then on the second. It is not a matter of voting. This is not the case in general. It doesn't introduce any novelties. All I'm saying is that a lot of money, it's my data and the Cabinet of Ministers, who can't get simple people today. Please support it in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u72	Yes, dear fellows, we will be determined. We heard thoughts from different sides. We have the opportunity to put to the vote a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine." Registration number 5357. There is a vote on the basis. [[17:41:24]] For 221 Now. Dear colleagues! Who's to go back to looking at this project, I'm asking you to make up your mind. [[17:41:51]] For 245 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. [[Registration number 5357]] [[17:42:23]] For 244 Decision taken. There's a denial. We can't do that. Dear colleagues! There is a denial, so in general we will not vote. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act to confirm compliance with the specific provisions. [[Bill 5078 registration number]] I'm asking from the profile committee Vitali Ivanovich Majko, please. And I'm continuing for 15 minutes to complete today's task.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u73	Mother, a party of industrialists and entrepreneurs, unfractional. The Act on Confirmation of Conformity, which establishes, inter alia, that certificates of conformity and certificates of conformity shall be made on forms protected by holographic elements, and retail trade in goods subject to mandatory certification shall be carried out in the presence of copies of certificates of conformity, or other documents on the conformity of goods certified by business entities. I'd like to go to the MPs with such a proposal, despite the fact that the Committee has upheld this Law, but we have recently passed the Pinzenik Act more broadly, more meaningfully on this part, and I think that this Law can be adopted, it meets all the requirements, but if the Pinzenik Act is adopted, we need to think to the MPs whether we need to have two documents of these. I have everything under this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u74	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. That's absolutely right. Yes, Your Honor, is there a need to discuss the bill? I think it's clear here that a similar bill has already been passed while the first bill on this issue has been passed. So clearly, you got it. Yes. But here's a proposition about Pinzenic's inadmissibility, and I'm putting her to the vote first. There is a vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy Pinzenik on the non-admissibility of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian law on the confirmation of conformity, with regard to the clarification of individual provisions, please vote. [[17:45:20.]] For-126 Yes. 126, not accepted. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis, in the first reading of the bill, the honourable colleagues, well, you're the literate MPs that you're going through, now it's going to be right, you vote. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Confirmation of Conformity, Bill No. 5078, is requested to be determined. [[17:45:59]] For-57 The bill is rejected. Honorary colleagues and Yuri Anatoliyovich, a reporter from the profile committee, said clearly and clearly that while this bill was waiting for its turn. We recently passed a similar bill, so we did the right thing and saved a few tons of paper. What are you yelling at? There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences (Law No. 4036). [[on the right of a person who is attracted to responsibility]] The author of the Polish Bill Kirilo Ananiyovich, because we're used to Mikoli. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with article 29 of the Constitution, any person arrested or detained should be immediately informed of the reasons for his arrest or detention, the clarification of his right and the opportunity to defend himself and to use the legal aid of the defence counsel from the moment he is detained. Regrettably, so far, the Constitution of Ukraine has not been reflected in the Code of Administrative Offences, and law enforcement officers, regardless of the Constitution as a direct act, are quite often accused of misdemeanour. Those present since the arrest of a citizen will be held back to a large extent from wrongdoing and will be another step towards the creation of the rule of law. I also note that the proposed standard should not be regarded as a duty of the State to provide and pay for the services of the defender. This rule should be understood as granting the right to a citizen at his own request to have the opportunity from the moment of the arrest to invite a defender. The adoption of the proposed bill will ensure that citizens can exercise the rights provided for in article 29 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u76	Thank you, Kirilo Ananiyovich. From the Red Committee, I can't see. Shall we discuss it? Karmazin insists. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich from the place microphone to you. You're a little homesick for today, I guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u77	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. The bill that is proposed is absolutely right. It is right that a person has the right to defend himself personally and to use the legal aid of a protector from the moment of detention. There is, of course, a question here as to whether the article referred to the detention provided for in article 29 of the Constitution as the right to protection of a person who is a subject of criminal justice rather than an administrative one, namely, that article 29 applies to these relations. But I think that, according to the Constitution, there is good reason to adopt this bill in the first reading, because we have examples when administrative detention was brutally applied. And even from this rostrum, I've been giving examples where the head of the city organization of the Party of Protectors of the City of Energodar of Morszwak, the district of Morszawak, was not allowed into court, and not even the wife, imagine, not just the lawyer, no one was allowed in. And for what? They were detained for the organization of the congregations. And they were convicted. Thank God that the superior law enforcement authorities have intervened, and this detention has been declared illegal. But the judges who did so are still in their posts. Therefore, in order for this to not be adopted, this bill is aimed at the realization of citizens' rights to legal aid, including during detention. Some say there are problems who will pay. Obviously, the language goes that paying for a lawyer is going to be the party that invites it, obviously, or his relatives. We are nowhere to be foreseen in this law, and I think it is inappropriate to suggest that there be a right of the state, as it is in administrative direction. So in the first reading, we have to accept it, and then let's polish some more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u78	Yes, Yuri Anatoliyovich probably did not know who was leading such a solid party. Had they known, they would not have been associated with you. That's understandable. Yes, please, who else is enrolled? Yes, Solomon, Frost, Yavorowski. Well, I'd like a moment, please, Solomonine, after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u79	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, what is it? Will a small Ukrainian who is so carefully and theatrically cared for by all the rostrums of the huge orange protectors protect himself? My lord, the defender of the country said that if he or his relatives had the money, he could. And if not, no. So this law will protect the most wealthy, it is for them. And the poor, the penniless people will not be left with or. And that's different from the bourgeois legislation that we're improving from the socialist legislation that we don't have. So as a step towards improvement and the transition to socialist legislation, this can be accepted and supported, but it can be understood that this does not solve the problem in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u80	Yes, please, Frost Anatoly, behind him, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u81	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I think I will not be mistaken if I say that this law must be maintained in an orderly manner. Both today and the previous speakers spoke of the fact that, in fact, in our country today, there is such a situation where there are no elementary, so to speak, articles of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles of laws that we have adopted here in the Supreme Council. So given that in Ukraine, in the end, both candidates in the Presidents spoke, and the so-called new President would be, he was talking about establishing the rule of law in Ukraine, I think not in words, but in fact we should be the guarantor of the Constitution. In article 29 of the Constitution, the same text is clearly stated. But here in article 268 of the Code of Administrative Violations, we really need to make a supplement to what the detainee should be given the opportunity to defend himself from being detained.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u82	Yes, thank you. Please, the Yavorov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you have continued, we have time, my three minutes of legal, I would like to use. What do I mean? Dear colleagues, it's just surprising that we still haven't made this clarification available to our legal Ukrainian system. Indeed, the whole world lives by these rules alone. From the first second of being arrested or held accountable, a person has the right, I repeat, to have his interests literately, civilized, precisely defended by a lawyer, protected by a lawyer, not herself. It's her sacred right, and so today, by adopting this bill, we're going to bring a little bit of our state with you, its legal system, really, to a civilized standard. It's very important. We really want to believe today that we're finally going to set up our judicial system. I'm like a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u84	Finish your thought. But you asked for one minute, Vladimir Alexandrovich. I'm at your request. One finger and three I know more. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u85	I'm really asking you, Your Honor, let's vote for this bill. I think Mr. Solomatin just made a mistake and didn't read the bill. He really needs to be voted for. There's a pathetic penny that can be paid by the man who's in there. Well, you don't have to put this as just a reason to cut off every person's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u86	Dear colleagues. Well, Nigger's saying a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u87	Adam Ivanovich, thank you very much. I demand it, not I say it. That's the MP's right. Dear colleagues, the law is the weapon of democracy. And we have to do everything we can to protect human rights. This should be addressed to our legislative work, including protecting the human rights that are held accountable from the moment of delay, and it is necessary to provide legal protection to the individual. And that's what the bill is about. True, he is a palatifist; he does not solve all questions, but this is a step in the right direction. I think given that, we can vote in favour of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the right of a person who is attracted to responsibility]] Project registration number 4036. Please vote. [[17:57:35]] For 251 Copy that. Yes, please, it's Carmazine's microphone. The replica. It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I took that line to make. I ask you not to mention the defenders of the country, they have, thank God, protected, protected, and those people who, in 1999, stood in tents where they were detained, arrested, and we, the Party of Fatherland Defenders, provided these services. And these services were provided absolutely free of charge. We weren't looking at who we were holding and from which party people were being detained. We fought to protect them. And to say that now only those who have money will benefit from the services of lawyers, that's absolutely groundless, which is why we say that a person has the right and the right to defend himself, that is, we encourage a person to study legislation. And secondly, he has the right to invite a lawyer if he's lazy or not. And I'd like to take it that way, just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-11-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! I am very grateful for your productive work on the first day of work in 2005. I hope that it will be as effective all the following days, at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. And I'm reminding you that tomorrow we're working full-time with you, and in the afternoon there will be no committee meetings and factions, because we have nothing to sit down, we're finishing the session. Good luck.
