ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u1	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for registration. And invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Council" system. Yes, 404 cards registered. Hence, we have every reason to declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the threat of a breakdown of the composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The country’s honourable national deputies, in the near future, may be in circumstances in which the judges of the Constitutional Court who were appointed to serve as judges of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine would not be authorized to do so. It is known that according to the law, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes office from the day of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is held not later than a month after its appointment. In the event of non-compliance, questions may arise as to the legitimacy of the status of newly appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to be guided by the constitutional obligation, to act only on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. This calls for the immediate inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the issue of the taking of an oath by newly elected judges within the time limits set by law. I appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the leaders of the MPs and groups to abide by the Constitution and to ensure that the oath is made without delay by the appointed judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The completion of the procedure for the formation of an effective composition of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will be in line with the tasks of securing human and civil rights and freedoms, upholding the rule of law principle in Ukraine, I hope for understanding and support. Respectfully, President Victor Yushchenko of Ukraine. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy, Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenka, to consider immediately the President's request, the Committee's decision to provide immediate information so that we can respond adequately and positively to the President of Ukraine's request to the Supreme Council, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to do it right away. Yes. Let us proceed to the consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. Second reading: draft Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Act. Reporter: Head of the National Security and Defence Committee Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u2	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, made 13 specific suggestions, comments, to the law adopted in the first reading. In fact, they're all but one. But a further observation was made by the Legal Authority. We've made some of it, and some of it I have to report. First, the Chief Legal Authority believes that it was necessary not to adopt the External Intelligence Service Act but to make appropriate changes to those laws that we should consider in the second draft. Our committee doesn't agree with this. The point is that according to the Constitution, military formations and the External Intelligence Service refer to such formations, are approved, are created by the law of Ukraine. So it is right that a separate law is passed. Second, they will rightly point out that since this body is being created by the Ukrainian Security Service intelligence agency, it should be noted that this body is being eliminated. They believe that we should refer to the appropriate decree of the President of Ukraine. The committee does not consider it possible to refer to the decree of the President of Ukraine. The President's order was illegal, and we need to legitimize this order. The Supreme Council, in fact, eliminated this body by its law on the overall structure and size of the Ukrainian Security Service, where there is no such unit. But we believe that in article 10, in the second paragraph, we should write “he is the successor of the Ukrainian security intelligence agency, which has been eliminated. ” The second question is the number of services. As you recall, dear companions, we recorded that the number is confirmed in the extent to which this service now exists. Well, that's right and that's wrong. Wrong because the total number of services is approved by the Supreme Council, and it has to confirm the number. We and the lawyers have come to the conclusion that we need to establish a border number. By doing so, we do not decipher the number of employees of the service that no one needs to know about. Therefore, we ask for our support. Finally, Deputy Carmazin believes that the activity of the service should be limited to the limits of Ukraine. Well, that doesn't answer a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u3	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u4	So the very nature of this intelligence service includes elements that exist. Where you have to work and abroad, sometimes you have to drag the threads over here. But Comrade Carmazin is right, and in article 3, the use of measures to counter Ukraine’s external threats to national security, to life, to the health of citizens, and to state property should be limited to Ukraine’s borders. Here, taking into account all of these observations, we ask that this law be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to support the committee's proposal now. And taking into account the proposals just made by the chairman of the committee, we adopted, in the second reading and as a whole, the bill of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service Law, 8437. Please vote. ‘For’ — 282 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, 8428, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the intelligence bodies]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u6	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have asked you to do so. We received a conclusion from the General Legal Department yesterday after the committee met. They're quite right there. We're asking you to move on to next week. And we'll brief him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to postpone, to be more precise, consideration until the next plenary week in view of the need to process the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. No warning? Let's put it off until next week. I ask the secretariat to take this into account in the next plenary week's schedule. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 8207. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Alexander Vasilovich Bondarczuk. Please, Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u8	Dear President, People's Deputies. On 27 September this year, the Cabinet of Ministers outside the Supreme Council passed a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Protection Act. We considered it, and the Supreme Council adopted it on the first reading on the fourth of November. In the past, 102 amendments were made to the second reading by members of the people. It's a very solid list of amendments. All of them were practically satisfied, taken into account in the text of the bill, which is now proposed for voting. In addition to those that restrict existing rights that consumers had under the current law. A great deal of amendments were made by the Vasadze People's Deputy. Many are accounted for. They really, well, at least at the committee meeting yesterday, we took into account the suggestions made by Tariel Shakrovitch that, apart from rights, consumers, after all, the consumer still had certain obligations, obligations. He must read the instruction before using the goods to at least avoid harming his own health. But many of the amendments, I say again, were rejected, because it was proposed to narrow down the law to just the goods, so. As far as consumer protection is concerned, this law should not apply to cases of provision of services. In addition, a number of proposals were made, in particular to pay for services that were not recorded in the contract on the provision of those services. Finally, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour at yesterday's meeting recommended that the Supreme Council should adopt the bill on second reading and in general. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u9	Yes, dear colleagues, Tariel Shaković Vasadze, a colleague of ours, insists on his amendments. Yes, please, the microphone of Vasadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u10	The distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected colleagues, is a significant amendment. This amendment, number 23, we have introduced a definition of “substantial deficiency”. This is also reflected today in the existing code, and the new draft today, which is being introduced, wants to remove the word “substantial flaw”. Let me give you an example. Let's say something happened to the TV, one lamp burned down is a deficiency. All of it. You can change the whole TV. We'll even take the car. The ashtray's gone, the car can be changed. That is, the concept of a significant deficiency must be preserved. Once again, this is in line with the Code, article 628. I ask you to keep this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u11	The Committee and the working group considered the amendment and therefore suggested that it be rejected. I can therefore argue such a proposal by the Committee. The current text describes what a “substantial deficiency” is. Indeed, there are no specific dates, periods during which this deficiency can be remedied. However, the current version does not allow the manufacturer to offer consumers goods that require regular repairs, i.e. a person can buy some goods -- household equipment, fix them every month, repair them, receive them, break them again and repair them, and so on. On that basis, it was suggested that the amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, the substance of the amendment is that the committee suggests that a significant flaw is a flaw that prevents us from exploiting the technology that has been purchased. Tariel Shaković suggests that it should be noted that after repair, after repair, when a defect has occurred and after it has been removed, it appears again. That's an offer, right? I put to the vote this proposal by the committee, the proposal by Tariel Shakrovitch is the 23rd amendment to page 5. For – 210 The amendment is not counted. Who is responsible for returning to consideration of the 23 amendments? Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u13	Vladimir Mikhailovich, allow me then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u14	Take down the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! Let me make a conscious vote, I'll read it to you as proposed. Indeed, it is said that “the essential disadvantage which makes it impossible or unacceptable to use the product in accordance with its intended purpose for the fault of the manufacturer, after it has been removed, is reexistenced from the consumer’s independent causes and is given at least one of the following signs.” And look what's going on. Subparagraph “a”: it cannot be removed at all. This means that if it can be removed, it can be permanently repaired. So I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u16	Please, Tariel Shaković, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u17	The whole point of this amendment. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There's a similar flaw. There's just a flaw. They want the word “essential”. And if we say, "the essential flaw," it gives us fourteen days. If they didn't fix the equipment, they have a right to return. If they have not corrected the malfunction, they have the right to return. I mean, it's all booked. The whole point is to put it away. It is simply a “substantial flaw” to prove simply a “inadequacy” of any minor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u18	Who would like to return to Amendment 23, please vote. For – 315 Decision taken. We went back to looking at the amendment. Who is responsible for this amendment 23, please vote. For – 316 Correction accepted. Are there any other amendments? Vasadze's microphone, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u19	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! In order for society to have equal responsibility, I think it is necessary to define the normal conditions for storage and transportation. Here's an example. Let's say it's a cell phone. If you use it underwater, of course it won't be there. There are conditions that the manufacturer may impose. If the manufacturer's condition is met, all consumer requirements are accepted. If the manufacturer's condition is not met, there should be no basis for that. That's the difference. Add an article to the new paragraph 13 – normal conditions of use, storage, transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u20	What kind of correction is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u21	This is Amendment 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u22	The Committee recommends that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u23	I am voting on the 22nd amendment by Tariel Shakrovitch Vasadze. For – 198 Correction not accepted. What other adjustments are there that you insist on? Please, Vasadze's microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The last amendment is the 45th, related to the amendment that we have already adopted, where we need to define it - in the case of a significant disadvantage, such a position, in the case of a minor disadvantage, is already under another programme. That is, this amendment has already been amended as to how it should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u25	The Committee proposes to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, in order to be logical, we need this amendment, indeed, to vote and accept. I'm putting to the vote the 45th Amendment of Vassadze, page 15. Please vote. ‘For’ — 292, Copy that. Yes, dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law in the second reading and generally as a law. Registration number 8207. Please vote. ‘For’ — 312, The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the promotion of the production of petrol by motor mixers]] Registration 7710. Anatoly Seminoga. Committee on Finance and Banking. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 29 November 2005 considered proposals that came up with a second reading of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the production of motor-mixed petrol. A total of 17 comments and suggestions were made by Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 14 are included, or partially counted, and three are rejected. They are rejected only because of the changes to the customs tariff of Ukraine, and this section of the bill will be removed tomorrow. The draft of the bill prepared for re-second reading was widely discussed by specialists from various ministries, oil and alcohol industries. The general conclusion is: first, biofuels, bio-addled fuels are the future, and closest, to all countries, especially countries that do not have enough oil; second, oil refineries operating in the country are not in a hurry to propose new technologies in this area, although they do not deny their prospects. Therefore, Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee, consider it appropriate to take the first concrete steps to stimulate the production of biofuels and biofuels with additives in Ukraine: to set the excise fuel rate of 30 euros per thousand kilograms. At the same time, with a view to avoiding budget losses and regulation, it is proposed temporarily for 2006 to grant the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the right to determine the quota and the production of bio-accumulated fuels at a rate of 30 euros per thousand kilograms. On the basis of the foregoing, it is suggested that the law be adopted in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, in general, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the production of motor-mixed petrol, registration number 7710. Please vote. Please vote. Yes, there goes the vote. For - 165. The decision is not taken. What's the committee's offer? Anatoly Ivanovich! Another one? I'm voting on the second reading of the bill, registration number 7710. I'd like to make a statement. For 226. Decision taken. We are re-reading the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on international cooperation in the prevention of terrorist financing]] Registration number 7480. Sergei Vasilovich Burjak is invited to the report by the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u29	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, the second reading committee received 5 amendments from the Ukrainian National Deputies. All the proposals made were taken into account, except for the offer of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitalia Švík. Suggested by article 62, paragraph 5, of Ukraine’s law to leave it in its original form. The committee rejected the proposal because it considered it. That providing additional information on a financial transaction, note that it is a financial transaction that has become the subject of financial monitoring that details the provision by banks of information on a particular transaction to a specially authorized financial monitoring body. With regard to the 5th proposal of the National Bank, this is on page 7 of your table, because of the entry into force on 1 January 2006 of the law of Ukraine amending the Constitution, according to which the National Bank of Ukraine is depriving itself of the right to legislative initiative, there is a problem with the participation of the National Bank of Ukraine, as the central bank of the State and the special central authority of the State, in the legislative process. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the designated bill in second reading and in general. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support this decision of the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A second-reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on international cooperation in the field of prevention of terrorist financing. Registration number 7480. Please vote. For – 270 The law is passed. The draft Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, we have finalized this bill on the committee. It has been amended by some 94 amendments. The absolute majority of these rights have been adopted. The Committee expresses its appreciation to such deputies as Lapina, Sharov, who have participated actively in the drafting of the bill. The only question, absolutely, is once again, most of the rights that have been made are accepted. The only inadequacies or differences that have arisen on this issue are those related to the work of the instrument of accreditation. On the committee, however, we, together with the State Standard, found a mechanism to get out of this situation. That is why we have worked on this bill, and therefore we propose that it be adopted as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment Procedures. Registration number 8037 for adoption in second reading and generally as a law. Please vote. For – 247 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on compensation for damage caused by the activities of the knowledge bodies]] Registration number 7359. Maria Andriyovna Markusz, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u33	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, which has been prepared for second reading. [[on compensation for damage caused by the activities of the knowledge bodies]] Until the second reading of this bill, ten comments and suggestions were made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, namely Chikal Adam Vasilovich – 7, Rudenko Hennadi Borisovich – 1, Nightsnik Mikhail Petrovic – 1 and Tkalenk Alexander Sergiyovich – 1. All these comments and suggestions are taken into account. The Committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed draft Ukrainian Law on Compensation for Damage Caused by the Action of the Learning Bodies in the Second Reading, and if there are no warnings, as a law as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on compensation for damage caused by the activities of the knowledge bodies]] Registration number 7359. Please vote. For – 322 Decision taken. So the law was passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the right of defendants to write to the European Court of Human Rights]] Registration number 7182. The reporter is Maria Andriyevna Marcus. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u35	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 2 November 2005 considered in a second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[on ensuring the right of convicted persons and persons held in custody to be sent to the European Court of Human Rights]] Until the second reading of the bill, 10 comments and proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies Bandurk Alexander Markovich – two proposals, onopenk Vasil Vasilovič – four proposals, Markusz Marija Andriyevna - four proposals. All these comments and suggestions are taken into account when preparing the project for second reading. The main scientific and expert office called for a bill without any warning. The Committee, taking these comments and suggestions into account, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this draft law in second reading and, if there are no warnings, in general as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, a second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 7182. [[on the right of defendants to write to the European Court of Human Rights]] Please vote. For 322. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 7472, is being announced for consideration. [[on the social adaptation of persons who have been punished with a restriction of will]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Andrew Schlell. Is there a Andrew School? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u37	This bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which means the conclusion of the project. Here I would like to emphasize that the law on social adaptation of persons who have been punished in the form of restrictions on the free will or deprivation of liberty for a certain period of time. Here it is suggested that changes be made to such things as the Housing Codex. What do you mean? People who have been punished and who have lived before this can very often lose them. And these changes are also proposed to protect those who are being punished for their loss of housing. What is social adaptation? When we speak, the person who has been punished returns from a place of deprivation of liberty and has nowhere to go, of course, that she will do anything to find out where to live in any way. This can lead to resocialization. And I'm sure it can lead to the intention of committing the crimes of this person by entering criminal groups by entering structures that will provide, of course, housing for this person who has been punished. There is also talk of creating living conditions in hostels. But it's only in the case that there are such possibilities in the state. I would like to point out that the implementation of the bill does not require the allocation of additional funds from the state budget. Because when we're talking about a dormitory, we're talking about a dormitory for a person who had the right to live in this dormitory to join crime. And a similar right is guaranteed in the event of a return from the places of disqualification and a process of resocialization being carried out. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u38	Honourable national MPs, since all the proposals of the national MPs are taken into account, we have every reason to put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole a bill amending some legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on social adaptation of persons who have been punished with restrictions of will]] Registration number is 7472. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u39	Please be supportive. It's really a social, necessary law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u40	For – 297 Decision taken. A draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure is being announced for consideration. Registration numbers are 3456-1, 3456-d. Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich is the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! As you know, the drafting of Ukraine's new Criminal Procedure Code began shortly after Ukraine declared its national independence and continued following the adoption of the Constitution and the introduction of Ukraine to the Council of Europe. Working groups and their leaders were constantly changing, but it was not possible to adopt the project as a law. Work on the project was intensified after the creation of a new working group under the leadership of the former First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the inclusion of Ukrainian national deputies, leading scientists and practitioners, representatives. Publicity. As a result of this group’s efforts, the project was prepared and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 22, 2003. In order not to burden you with unnecessary information, my fellow Members, I ask you on behalf of the Committee on Legal Protection to cancel our decision to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the CPC project number 3456 under badge 1 and to submit to the first reading a completely different project prepared with your participation, with the participation of scientists, practitioners and representatives of the public. I can report this bill today, but there's an idea to transfer it to another time. Therefore, I ask you to support the committee's decision to revoke our decision of 22 May 2003 on the adoption of the CPC as a basis for first reading. Thank you very much, and please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u42	Dear National Deputies! As you will recall, in May 2003, we adopted the draft Criminal Procedure Code. He received extremely critical grades. After that, a working group was set up to work on the draft law. So we need to make a decision today to cancel our previous decision, to have the committee redraft the proposed new version of the draft law so that we can consider it as soon as possible. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 22 May 2003 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and to withdraw the bill from consideration. [[Registration number 3456-1]] Please vote. For -344, Decision taken. I would ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to gather together the committee's leaders, which is headed by Vladimir Romanovich, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, Stretovich, and determine how we will further work on this document in order for it to meet all the requirements. And Burjaka is sure, yes. It's a budget committee. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine has been announced. [[on responsibility for substituting and destroying electoral documentation]] Registration number 6389. The reporter is Maria Andriyevna Marcus. Please, Maria Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u43	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In a second reading of the bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered the draft amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes. [[on responsibility for substituting and destroying electoral documentation]] Until the second reading of the bill, seven proposals were submitted, namely National Deputy Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich three, Bespali Boris Jakovic two and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich one, Marcus Marija Andriyevna one. All proposals are taken into account, in addition to one amendment by Boris Jakovič Bespalogo, to complement the words “the crew member” of section 2 of Article 158, because the current Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine does not contain the concept of “the person responsible”. The Committee, taking these comments and suggestions into account, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this bill in a second reading and, if there are no warnings, in general as the law of Ukraine. I mean, I apologize, the Criminal Code of Ukraine has no such concept as "a person of interest". Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, in general, a bill amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for substituting and destroying electoral documentation]] Registration number 6389. Please vote. For – 319. The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Registration number 6418. The reporter is Maria Andriyevna Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u45	Marcus, the Communist faction. Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In a second reading, a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code was considered by the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting. Before the second reading of the bill, 51 proposals were made, namely: the National Deputies, Chikal Adam Vasilovich – 48, Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich – one and Polishchuk, Catherine Andriyevna – one, including all comments and suggestions. The Committee, taking these comments and suggestions into account, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt this bill on second reading, and if there are no warnings, as a matter of law as a whole. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a second reading committee and, in general, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Registration number 6418. Please vote. For – 264 The law is passed. Yes, let us go to the chapter “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productions, which form part of a comprehensive property complex of companies producing sugar, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 09.11.2005, is under review. [[single]] The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister. Where's the minister? Here's a letter that the minister should be. Please, Leonid Vasilovich. Arrangements are under way at the “Ukraine-EU” summit. Please, Leonid Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u47	Honorable National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 18, 2005, adopted the Law currently under consideration. The President of Ukraine did not sign the prescribed Law and suggested that it be rejected on the grounds that the Constitution was not in conformity with the Ukrainian Civil Code and that it should be rejected. Article 1 of the Law temporarily prohibits the alienation of immovable property and other basic means of production, which form part of the whole of the sole assets of the sugar - producing enterprises, until January 1, 2008. In line with the Law, the alienation of the listed objects is understood to mean the transfer of ownership rights to objects to other legal or natural persons by contract or by court decision. Thus, the Law limits the rights of owners of the listed items of all forms of property, since the Law defines no other, including private, property. This is contrary to fundamental constitutional principles regarding the protection by the State of the rights of all property and management subjects, the integrity of private property rights, and the right of everyone to exercise his or her property under the guaranteed Constitution. Moreover, the restrictions imposed by law do not correspond to the provisions of the Civil Code on the exercise of property rights, according to which the owner owns, is entitled to his property to his own judgment, and the State does not intervene in the exercise of ownership rights by the owner. All of this also leads to a violation of article 64 of Ukraine’s basic law, which prohibits restrictions on constitutional rights, in addition to those provided for in the Constitution. The law also gave the Cabinet of Ministers an order of 6 months from the date of entry into force of the establishment and approval of a comprehensive programme for the restructuring of sugar plants, providing for the retraining of sugar plants, the order of withdrawal from the operation of enterprises that are not subject to restructuring of any link to agreeing on the implementation of these measures by the owner of the property does not give the law. This commission not only violates the already stated provisions of the Constitution regarding the rights of the owners of the listed objects, but also goes beyond the constitutional authority of the government. Since according to paragraph 5, article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine administers only state property. In this regard, the bill is proposed to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u48	Yes. Thank you, too, Leonid Vasilovich. Have a seat. Oleg Yuhnowski is Secretary of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u49	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnowski, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations considered the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productives, which form part of a comprehensive property complex enterprise that produces sugar, adopted by the Supreme Council on 18 October 2005. In proposing a rejection of the law, the President refers to violations of the Constitution of articles 13, parts 4, 41, parts 1 and 4, where the State protects the rights of all owners. Yet, the committee points to the following: Article one of the laws called for is only temporary, and I stress this, the limitation of ownership of objects, the basis of the production of sugar plants. This measure is forced to stop the practice of destroying production capacity, to maintain the integrity of the sugar plant’s assets, to reduce social tension in the working villages of non-workable sugar factories. The draft law proposes to the government, within a specified time limit, to restructure sugar factories, to regulate the order of exit from non-renewable enterprises, to re-profile, and to preserve the social sphere. Part four of article 13 of the Constitution provides for the State to protect all economic subjects. At the same time, the dismantling of sugar factories today makes it impossible to realize the right to work by citizens guaranteed by article 43 of the Constitution, which resides in villages of sugar factories. Because sugar factories were and are settlement - making, and the labor market there is created only by them. Article 64 of the Constitution stipulates that the constitutional rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen cannot be restricted. And I want to conclude by saying that despite the numerous appeals of the labour groups, unfortunately there is no reaction or even a motivated response from the government that sugars are considered to be grossly ignoring the problems of the industry. In view of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations put forward, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President's proposal to reject Law 6113 should not be supported or overcome by the veto. In case such an offer does not raise the necessary number of votes to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the law in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u50	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, will be the first to vote on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productives, which form part of the entire property complexes of companies producing sugar. [[single]] Registration number 6113. I'm voting on the President's motion to reject the law. I'd like to make a statement. For – 71 The decision is not taken. The second is the motion by the Committee on the Elimination of the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Production Means, which are part of the entire property complexes of enterprises that produce sugar. Registration number 6113. Please vote. For – 295 The decision is not taken. Who's in favour of going back to the law, registration number 6113, please vote. For – 303 We're back. Calm down, fellows of honor! A vote is taken on the proposal by the committee to defeat the veto of the President of Ukraine on the law, registration number 6113. Please vote. For – 295 The decision is not taken. A motion for a committee to adopt a law is put to the vote. Next, the committee's proposal is on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Disposal of Real Estate Objects and Other Main Productives, which form part of whole property complexes, enterprises that produce sugar, to be adopted in a new edition with partial consideration of the President's proposals. Registration number 6113. Please vote. For 302. Decision taken. The law was adopted in a new edition with partial consideration of the President's proposals. The Act on the introduction of a moratorium on imports into Ukraine of meat and food-sub-products of domestic poultry is announced for consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from8. 11.2005. Registration number 8290. Reporter: Alexander Baranowski, Minister of Agrarian Politics Prepare Sergey Taroshuk. And invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u51	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, adopted on October 20th this year by the Ukrainian Law “On the Introduction of a Moratorium for the Import into Ukraine of Meat and Food Sub-products of Domestic Birds”, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject. The main reasons for rejecting the bill are the introduction of the aforementioned moratorium, evidently due to the spread of avian influenza in neighbouring countries and the risk of the introduction of this disease into Ukraine. In the meantime, the bill does not address the issue of imports into Ukraine of wild bird meat, incubating eggs. Day - to - day chickens, although this particular product may primarily be a factor in the transmission of the highly secretive avian influenza virus and other diseases. At the same time, Ukraine’s relevant services are constantly following up on the situation of epizootic well - being in countries around the world, and targeted work is being done to prevent this disease from occurring in the area. Today, a corresponding ban is imposed with Romania, Turkey, the Russian Federation, and other countries. This is officially announced by the International Epizootic Bureau. I mean, respectable friends, that the fall in prices in the bird’s meat market is caused, to some extent, by avian flu, by intimidation of the population, but there is another reason. This year, within 80,000 tons of bird meat, broiler, was produced more than last year. Second, 14 million birds were sold to the population more than last year. This year too, the supply of bird meat is much greater than it was last year and the abundance of the market is much higher. What might result from the imposition of such a prohibition? I don't want to talk about going to Europe today, going to WTO. And this is completely incompatible with the relevant laws that apply in these areas. I would like to say that this year we imported 220,000 tons of meat into Ukraine. Of them, last year, 264, that is, 44,000 tons less than last year. Out of these 220,000 tons, 58% is imported bird meat. Thus, in our view, it is a deep belief that this ban can only raise the price of a bird’s meat to a certain extent on the market and no more. So we would ask the honourable people's deputies to listen to the President's thinking and not to overcome the veto in this case, but to support the President's opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the law on the introduction of a moratorium on imports into Ukraine of meat and food by-products of domestic birds. Most members of the committee agreed with the President’s arguments on rejection. Obviously, the law was caused by the outbreak of avian flu, which we see today is in Europe. But today this issue is settled. It is regulated by the Law on Food and Food Safety and Quality. Security was placed on the Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine in Ukraine. That is, today the Chief Inspector has the possibility of imposing a ban on imports of meat and products from areas or areas where avian influenza virus is at risk. Therefore, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations believes that the President's proposals should be supported and the law rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u54	Dear National Deputies! The committee supports the President's proposal. I then put to the vote the question of repealing the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on imports into Ukraine of meat and food by-products of domestic birds. Registration number 8290. Please vote. For – 126 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, now we have to automatically bet on breaking the veto. If we fail to overcome the veto, then the Law will automatically be repealed, otherwise it will be hung on the Supreme Council. I am voting on the proposal to defeat the President's veto on the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on imports into Ukraine of meat and food by-products of domestic birds. Registration number 8290. Please vote. For – 242 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. By factions, please: Communists 55, "Regions of Ukraine" 51, National Party 10, "Our Ukraine"-1, Block Timoshenko 29, SPI 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU(o)-18, National Block - 19, "Trust of the People" - 3, "Reforms and Order" - 0, "One Ukraine" - 13, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 8, non-fractional - 12. The Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Treatment, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 05.10.2005, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 3175. Reporter - Minister of Environmental Protection Paul Mikolaiovich Ignatenko To prepare, Victor Musiak will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u55	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Distinguished People's Deputies! On September 8, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, which was signed by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine did not sign the above-mentioned law because of its conceptual imperfection, its inadequacy with individual articles of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and its internal disagreement with the provisions of a declarative nature. Thus, according to the law’s name, the subject of its regulation would be the issue of protecting animals from cruel conduct, just as the stated purpose of adopting the law in Preamble. In fact, however, the law addresses the issue of maintaining registration of animal treatment in populated areas, even licensing for livestock activities related to the use and maintenance of domestic animals. And it's just a side-by-side question of protecting animals. As a result, the basic purpose of this law is lost to society -- strengthening the morality and humanity of society through the protection of animals. In addition to the foregoing, the standard of articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 34, 35, 38 and 39 are rather vague and contradictory, which may create problems in applying the law, leading to abuse, social tension in society. A number of provisions of articles 16, 19, 28, 34, 35 of the Act are not in line with the rules of current legislation of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Local Self-Government and Veterinary Medicine. Further refinements and refinements of the definition of a number of terms used in the law are needed to bring them into line with the official terms, since these definitions are essential in the application process. Thus, according to part two of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine, by letter dated October 5, 2005, issued number 1 / 1,057 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by his proposals, returned the law to the Supreme Council for reconsideration. These suggestions are contained in the material that is given to you. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the proposals of the President of Ukraine to be well founded and proposes to agree with them. During the drafting of legislation at the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the proposal of the President of Ukraine was fully taken into account. The work resulted in the removal of internal contradictions of the law and its inadequacy with certain articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on local self-government. Please support and enact this very important law as amended by the President. It's a very important social law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u56	Paul Mikolaiovich, thank you, too. Widely Yuri Volodymyrovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u57	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian National Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee took into account all the President's proposals. He believes that these proposals are well-founded and appropriate, and he has made a decision on the adoption of this law, taking into account the President's proposals. In addition to what has been said, let me inform you that a week ago, national deputy Oleg Belarus asked the Committee on the Legislative Initiative to amend article 9 on the number of animals owned by a single family of three adults. The President of Ukraine did not make the remark, and the structural parts of the law that the President made the remark are under consideration. Therefore, the offer was not included. The committee proposes to adopt this law with the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! For reasons of vote? Olena Bondarenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that today's draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt the Law on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Treatment, to first approve, to join the European Convention on the Protection of Animals and then to accede to this convention, and to adopt an appropriate law to meet the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation. [[Three projects like this, one of them is mine.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we must now consider the proposal from the President and the committee. It's about accepting it in a new edition. If not supported in the new edition, it will automatically, this law will be repealed. Therefore, honourable colleagues have put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 3175. Please vote. For -269. The law is passed. The Act on Amendments to Article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 27.10.2005, is being announced for consideration. Registration number 7621. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Hotch Olena Vasilovna. We will prepare a report to Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On the basis of its constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine returns the Act amending article 20 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with its proposals. Without resorting to the substance of the changes proposed by the people’s deputies, i.e. by supporting all the changes that apply to the provisions provided for in the law, the President invites the Supreme Council to take into account his comments so that the law can take effect on January 1, 2007, since otherwise the decision would be contrary to article 27 of the Code of Budget. The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council supports the President's proposal. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the President's proposal. I would like to inform you that the Government is implementing the Constitutional Court's decision regarding the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of the People's Deputy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u62	Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At the meeting of the Committee on 2 November 2005 this year, President Vladimir Mikhailovich's proposal to amend article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy, adopted on 6 October 2005 was considered by the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich. In view of the fact that the legislative norms returned by the President of Ukraine correspond to the legal position and decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 19 October 2005, the pension rate of the monthly life support, the prescribed law was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 October, stressing that 309 votes were paid for it, as well as the importance and urgency of legal issues regulated by law, the committee adopted the following decision: to submit a motion for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-adopt the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputate of Ukraine, without taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. I remind you that the Constitutional Court has declared non-constitutional rules, the legal rules that impose restrictions on pensions, and the law also contains a legal norm that the legal status of the Ukrainian national deputy cannot be revoked or narrowed down by other legislative acts. In fact, these legal standards are excluded in this law. Because the attempt to limit the legal status of the Ukrainian national deputy is already contained in the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006. The Association of People’s Deputies of Ukraine, which represents the interests of the people’s deputies of today’s past appeals, has taken a decision and has referred to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of committees, the leadership of factions with the proposal to support the decision of the Committee, the Committee’s regulatory committee. As noted in the association's address, in order to ensure that the retirement of Ukrainian national deputies does not remain in the manual office of government officials, the committee requests that the previous decision of the Supreme Council on this law be supported and that the law be re-adopted by a constitutional majority vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u64	Have a seat, Vasil Vasilovich. Yes, Your Honor, be careful, the President's proposal will be the first. The president proposes that only one amendment be made to this law, which takes effect on January 1, 2007. Please vote. For - 270. Thank you. The law was passed with the President's proposal, that is, it was introduced and it was perfectly logical, in accordance with the Budget Code, it was introduced on January 1, 2007, if the President signed it. Yes, the next bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, with proposals from the President. Hot Helen Vasilovna, please. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u65	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the people, this bill, which has been submitted for signature to the President, the President, taking into account his constitutional powers, is returning to the Supreme Council with a proposal to put it into effect as of 1 January 2007. I'll remind you of the history of this law. In July, the President returned the law with proposals, but by August 15, as stipulated in the Budget Code. The Supreme Council was unable to pass this law, and it was not made public. Accordingly, expenditure on this law of about 600 million dollars for 2006, and in the years that followed, about a billion dollars, total expenditure of 1.6 billion dollars was not included in the state budget. Therefore, considering that the social protection of war veterans is at the forefront of the President's activities, the Supreme Council, the government is proposing this law in its entirety, rather than in its stages, to introduce it from 1 January 2007. Please consider the President's proposals and consider them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u66	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention for a moment? I am absolutely convinced that you have to face the situation of this law quite often. The point is that a minimum pension of six - year - olds was placed as a basis for the status of a war invalid, a participant in combat. That's where 10 bracelets is a premium for the status of a participant in a war, that's where the premium for the status of a participant in a combat operation is 29 dollars and so on and so forth. The president’s main point is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine violated the Code of Budgets by adopting this law. But I cannot agree with this at least because this law was fully enacted in June in full compliance with the requirements of the Budget Code. The other thing that then was the President's veto and then all these trials went. That's why there was such a conflict when we could either override the President's veto or agree with him. Because it's only about the deadlines for implementing this law. That's why, dear colleagues, I have several assignments from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. And the first of these is to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine under this law to overcome the President's veto, which is to introduce this law in full from January 1, 2006. I would very much ask you, dear colleagues, to uphold this law, and then to support the disabled of war, to support the participants in war and the participants in war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u68	Yes, Your Honor, I beg you, come on, there will be a vote now, stop or interrupt the meeting temporarily. I beg of you, dear fellows. There will be a vote. Dear colleagues, there will be a vote. Well, I'm asking you, what kind of advice is there? A committee proposal is put to the vote, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, registration number 5439, on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u69	I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u70	What, what? I can't hear you. Change the vote. For - 295. I said cancel the vote. The decision is not taken. What? Dear colleagues, one minute. That's right. The vote has been lifted. I'm just asking you, dear colleagues, you can't work in this atmosphere. We have to put the President's proposal first. So now I'm going to put them to the vote. A vote is taken by the President of Ukraine on the entry into force of the law of 1 January 2007, registration number 5439. Please vote. Dear people's deputies, you're simple. We now put to the vote the President's proposal to postpone the enactment of this law, not as of 1 January 2006, but as of 1 January 2007. The offer reached 141 votes. That is why I will now put a motion to the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine in accordance with the Rules on Voting. Dear colleagues, I told you to break the law because we were wrong to vote. I was corrected by Deputy Slabenko. The vote was lifted. Dear colleagues! Please. In accordance with the Rules, the President's first proposal is voted on, and I said that the vote should be lifted. Well, when Slabenko came up, he explained! A proposal was put to the vote. I want to say it again! Yuri Bogdanovich! I would like to reiterate, my fellow Members, that according to the Rules, the President's proposal, and then the committee's proposal, are the first to vote. But since you've turned me around, I've put the committee's first proposal to the vote. When Slatko made me a comment, I said I had to take that vote off. Well, well, well. Huh? You don't have to do this anymore. All right! They're insisting. Who's to go back to considering the question of whether to consider and put to the vote a proposal for overcoming the President's veto under Law 5439? Please vote to take all the problems. For – 284 We're back. Should we put it all to the vote again or not? I now put to the vote a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantee their social protection, registration 5439. Please vote. For – 308, Decision taken. The law is passed. Announcing the law of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, what pretenses can you present to me? Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u71	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear friends! Well, yesterday we only had a budget meeting. You know, there are rules to the Budget Code. How can laws now be introduced since 1 January 2006, if the budget on second reading and these laws are not included in the balance sheet? Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. I think in this case you're deliberately breaking the country's economic balance, and you have to be responsible. You have an excellent understanding of what this will lead to. If you have less than 50 billion deficits and you are pushing it further, please tell the Ukrainian people where the income will be to pay for it. Then it's going to be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u72	Dear National Deputies! Please, one minute, we're not discussing the President's representative. That's it, that's it. Please. The President's representative is entitled to the floor. This is the President's law, please. Klukkowski. Well, please, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A vote has just passed, which has actually broken the budget, which has been agreed upon and should be further worked on. The price of this issue in the 2006 budget is 543 million dollars, or more than half a billion dollars. That's it. I understand who is shouting "normally" who is not important to Ukraine, but to his own income in Ukraine. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I point out that this is your vote manipulation that led to a veto against the Rules when you repeated the vote that had already taken place. Veto gets through once! And you can't jump 10 times over this plank. Again, I refer to the gross violations of the Rules, which will now have very serious consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u74	Dear National Deputies! Please calm down. Calm down, please. I'd like to drop these false accusations and tell my esteemed folk colleagues that when you yell out, you're all turned around, you're gone, you're rested, you've come back to have some coffee and some coffee. I would ask the President's representative to sit in the session room, vote constantly, speak on behalf of the President. Calm down! Let me finish, I'll finish again. I said, Your Honor, when I put it to the vote, the President's proposal is voted first. When I put the president's motion to the vote, Sergei Slabenko said I was wrong. I asked to call off the vote, the veto of defeat. It's been 294 years. We went back to working. The national deputy of Lebedovsky approached me, and he made a comment to me that the vote should be put to the vote: Return to the debate. I put it to a vote. Tell me what I did, please. Oh, that's different. I'd like to say, to an honorary colleague who's written in the President's statement, that's about 15 million. The wrong number you call it. Please, as a representative of the President, read everything and don't look for the guilty, please. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 12.10.2005, registration number 6143, is being announced for consideration. Please, Hot Helen Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This law, which was signed by the President, was adopted by the Supreme Council in September of this year, and it envisions the introduction of new aids for the corresponding categories that will be used since 1 January 2006. Since this norm is not in line with the Code of Budgets, it is proposed that this rule be maintained and put into effect on January 1, 2007. And that is, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, under this law, 15 million dollars is spent. Under the previous law, expenditure is more than 500 million dollars. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's proposals, and they are supported by the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u76	Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich is head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, the committee has carefully considered the President's proposals for the bill and agrees that since the document adopted in October-months is indeed a violation of the budget code when this document is adopted, and agrees with the President's observation on this document. And as for the previous situation, dear colleagues, I would like some of those who are very actively practicing in this room, some of the promises of November-December of the past that we are today, another part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is trying to implement instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u78	Before the vote, dear colleagues, I want to apologize to Yuri Klukkowski. I called the wrong number, I looked, again, another law. There's really a number going right, which he said, I'm asking for an apology in this respect, 542. Well, not the bracelets, obviously. Dear colleagues, the first to vote is the proposal of the President of Ukraine. And this is where the committee agreed. That is, the President of Ukraine proposes to put the Law into effect, not on January 1, 2006, but on January 1, 2007. The President's proposal is supported by a committee. That is why I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Registration number 6143. Please vote. To 291. Decision taken. There are no motives yet. For what reason? Well, no. Because it's a question. For reasons of what? With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u79	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! I want to go back to 5,439 laws and get the radios to understand what's going on. Those who are so supportive of the fact that we have no money in the budget would be happy to find an even greater amount if the law were to take into account the interests of soldiers from the so-called UPA and the SS division Galicina. Only because there are no such representatives did they not want to pass the law. I therefore wish to thank all the factions that voted in favour of this law and thus supported our veterans of the Great Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u80	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u81	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give my word to my colleague Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u82	Mikhail Kuzmi Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u83	Rodionov, the Communist faction. I think we have a sense of duty, since you have adopted very important laws for our people, we should move on to the next item. There are programmes, i.e. decisions, recommendations of parliamentary hearings and follow the programme of our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u84	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u85	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, for the first time, under the second law, we voted on what would benefit the veterans of the Great Homeland War. The category is, unfortunately, becoming smaller and smaller each year. Every year, every day. Therefore, the fact that we voted in the previous law to change the amount of the annual one-off payment and today. The last one, so to speak, agreed with the President's proposal, and there's also a normal thing about the fact that ordinary old people, who have been added a small piece of paper for 80 years. What's wrong with that? That's why I think we all voted right with you, we need to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u86	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, really, before the election campaign starts, there are about three or four months left, and so I would like to ask each of you to keep an eye on it. What we say and how we do it. For we shall begin to remember one another: whoever has drunk, who has sold where the earth is, who has received it. As a result, all of this together causes a great deal of trouble for the electorate. The faction “Our Ukraine” voted in favour of the last law in full. We just want to insist that in this particular budget, the lack of government, the pro-president majority, we have some anti-government majority that we suddenly don't do what we have to do to just make two draft regulations for the left be communism. And for all the other exhibitors, let there be a paradise. So let us be responsible for our people’s receiving preferences each year, for we will not be able to resolve everything at once. I want to call you to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u88	Thank you. We were exchanging thoughts, and I think we've calmed down. A draft Regulation on the Recommendations of Parliamentary Hearings on the Development of Information Society in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 8448. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, please. I asked that the national MPs sign up, well, please, don't shout. People's deputies signed up, made statements. Well, everyone who's logged in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u89	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, on 21 September, parliamentary hearings on information society development took place. These hearings were prepared by the academic, scientific community, business community and it has been prepared for a year. The recommendations of the parliamentary hearings on the Internet for two months now, each paragraph of those recommendations being discussed at the round tables and the last round table with a wide public interest, they ask you to approve these recommendations of the hearings, and they form the basis for addressing the shortcomings that exist in this regard today in the implementation of information technology. Ukraine, in this regard, must say, is not lagging, and there is a good potential. That's a first. Secondly, they are the basis for the development of a national information society strategy. By the way, after the parliamentary hearings, the President of Ukraine issued a decree recognizing this direction as a priority. Our task now, it is said, to adopt the ideology of this priority, is to present a national strategy for this law. Well, then the plan, they say, is a plan of action, a plan of action for implementation. If all of this can be done, as they say, well, it is the most promising course, the technological direction in Ukraine can not only be maintained but be further developed. Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u90	Yes, National Deputy Korge, please, before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u91	Thank you. I would like to propose that the first paragraph should read: “Controlling this decision should be placed on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, together with the Committee of the Supreme Council on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. Please accept the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend parliamentary hearings on the development of information society in Ukraine, taking into account my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Education and Science does not object to such a joint activity. So I'm voting on this proposal for a draft decision as a whole. Registration number 8448. Please vote. As a matter of fact. For – 283 I'll take the order. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine is being announced. Registration number 8414. The rapporteur is Vitaly Homettinick, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Very briefly, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On November 8, this year, we heard information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the state of the art and prospects of developing insurance services in Ukraine. They also had the opportunity to discuss the subject in detail. Your attention is given to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers on the current state and outlook of the insurance market in Ukraine, developed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, taking into account the materials presented by the Cabinet of Ministers and the proposals made by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. The aim of the regulation is to create conditions for increasing the insurance market, the level of insurance protection of the interests of the broad population, the formation of markets for investment mechanisms in the national economy, the improvement of the competitiveness of national companies and the improvement of the system of supervision of the insurance market. In view of the current state of the insurance market in Ukraine, the decision entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets to develop a number of draft laws and regulations aimed at improving the tasks set out in the government's day-to-day priorities for the further development of the market. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, we make decisions, that's not a question. The day of the government was, we are now making a decision on the results of the vote. The draft decree on information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine is put to the vote for adoption as a whole,” registration number 7414. Please vote. For 193. The decision is not taken. Please let the committee work on this project. Draft Decision on the report of the Provisional Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the crisis in the financial situation of the Bank of Ukraine's Shareholders and to verify the legality of its liquidation from July 2002 to November 2005. King Viktor Mikolaiovich, please. Let's just take them apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u95	Yeah, I'll report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u96	Well, please, yes. And second order 8415. The report will be made by two decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, on November 18th, I, as the head of the interim commission of inquiry, have informed you of the work of the commission and, according to our Rules, have a decision to take. I'm just going to briefly remind you that what I've been able to do, and the amount that we've saved with you has not been stolen and the money that we owe people is 51% of all our debts. So the National Bank, knowing that nearly 1 billion 400 remained, continued the work of the liquidation commission by its decision by mid - next year. It's been there since July 2006. And we're logically suggesting that we keep this money under control, too, under the control of our commission. Therefore, the report is proposed by the regulatory committee to take in knowledge and agree on what I said at the time to continue the work of the commission automatically. There are three people on the board, that is, there are no cars, nothing. Not necessary. That's the first one. Second, on the publication of the Bank's largest debtors' lists. And this, my dear fellows and I have already succeeded in working with your support, and have managed to break into the National Bank officially, through the liquidator, the official list of the 150 largest debtors of the bank. Wait!...with 50 of the 150 largest debtors of the bank “Ukraine”. But there's a new obstacle, you see, there's no money to publish in the media. In this regard, we ask that you allow us through the Voice of Ukraine and other media to provide them with this official list. This will help me return, in my opinion, it will help repay the debts to them and we'll see those people that we said they stole this, we'll see where they are now, whether in the Supreme Council or in the government, or maybe someone who's not that far away, I mean. So be supportive. But here is the observation: 4 paragraph recommended, we wanted to recommend to the Attorney General of the country that appropriate measures should be taken to recover the debts of the firm. But scientifically, to cancel it. We meant, in view of the state’s fate. That's why we can remove it, or we can leave it. Lists, as soon as you make your decisions, I'll give them to you all. I just didn't take them, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u98	Shame! Maybe we should have read these lists. But make your decision and it will be published. Thank you. This is for your 2 decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decree on the report of the Interim Commission of Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the crisis of the financial situation, the shareholding, commercial, agro-industry bank “Ukraine” and the verification of the legality of its liquidation from July 2002 to November 2005. Registration number is 8512. Please vote for adoption as a whole as a decision. For 360. I'll take the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u100	Thank you. And the second determination is on the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u101	May I have your attention, please? The draft Decision implementing paragraph 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 10 January 2002 number 2956-3 (for the publication of the list of the largest shareholders of the commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine”, registration number 7415) is put to the vote for adoption as a whole. Please vote. For – 355 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u102	Thank you very much. It's the first list approved and then on the party list.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! We need to make one point of the law that we passed. To that end, I would ask you to listen to the motivation of Victor Lavrentiovich Musiyaki. This is very important to us, dear colleagues. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We accepted the amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the Adoption Centre for Children]] We have transferred this institution to the Government - State Authority for the Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child within the central executive branch of the family, children, and young people, and have raised the status to the state level. I propose that paragraph three be clarified. We didn't say in a few articles that there was a need for clarification and in the latter positions we said that the reference to the Civil Procedure Code was already outdated in the old edition because we had adopted a new Civil Procedure Code. [[That's how long the bill was.]] So you have to throw a reference to the Civil Procedure Code at all. In the third paragraph, point out that in the first and second paragraphs of article 215, paragraphs 215 and 3 of the first part of article 282, parts 282 and 3 of article 283 the words “The adoption centre” should be replaced by the words “Governmental Authority for the Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child” in all differences. All of it. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I would like to support this proposal and vote in favour of the changes made by Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak. Please vote. Vote. For - 319 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants is under review. [[8348]] Reporter Sergey Tereshuk To prepare Vasil Calinchuk. Yes, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u106	Sergey Tersuk, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, the geography of countries with which various products of plant origin are imported into Ukraine, is expanding. Today, this is more than a hundred countries. Scientists have shown that the spread of various diseases and pests depends on climate conditions and also depends.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u107	Yes, one minute! Sergei Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues, I've made a mistake. We need to put this into the agenda, then we need to look at it. That is why I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. Registration number 8348. Please vote. For -243. It's on. Now let's get to the bottom of this. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u108	According to the U.S. The quarantine of plants and the implementation of phytosanitary measures is no longer new. Since the 14th century, quarantine has been carried out on our planet. As of January 1, 2005, the area of quarantine in Ukraine is more than 2 million hectares, 30 percent more than it was in 1996. A number of countries today are threatening Ukraine with quarantined organisms such as capricious beetles, Chinese grains, Japanese beetles, Indian wheat sacs, and bacterial fertilization. From the American continent today, we are threatened by an American white butterfly, a California shield, a Texas root rot, a Western flower trippes, a mustard of Pennsylvania. Today, an ambrosia of greenhouse gas flows to Ukraine in the '80s. Today, in 10 years, the area of ambrosia has increased by 3 times and by 1 January 2005, the area of ambrosia, which is about one and a half million hectares. A corn beetle was discovered in the Zakartat region two years ago. Today, it already covers an area of about 2,000 hectares [2,000 ha]. Scientists estimate that a few tens of millions of dollars of damage can be caused if businesses are not executed. Therefore, it is important to set clear barriers to entry into Ukraine’s sub - quarantine facilities. It is equally important in the new conditions of integration into Europe, the expansion of the trading zone, to meet international requirements for certification of subcontracted products when exported from Ukraine. Taking into account the above factors and the proposed bill amending the Law on Quarantine Plants. The bill preserves a valid system of state administration in the field of quarantine of plants, public law, organizational, financial and economic grounds for quarantine of plants, the authorization of public authorities, their officials, the rights and obligations of legal and natural persons to prevent the penetration and spread of quarantined organisms in Ukraine, the order of financing and scientific security in the area of quarantine of plants. In general, the bill is in line with the requirements of the International Agreement on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures. The adoption of the bill will create a favourable climate for Ukraine’s integration into the world society, the World Trade Organization and the expansion of international trade, and will increase the security and protection of our nation’s plant world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Please, Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich, position of the committee and continue for 15 minutes. We still need to make the next decision that we agreed to at the meeting of the Conciliation Council. Very soon, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u110	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, as stated in the report of the author of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian law on quarantine of plants Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, provides for a new regulation of the current law, with the aim of bringing the legislative base of our state into the field of European legislation and in particular the requirements of the directive of the Council of the European Union and the requirements of the WTO agreement on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures. Its novelties include the development and application of phytosanitary measures, monitoring and control of harmful organisms, regulating international trade relations, importing and exporting plant products. The main objectives of the bill are to protect the life and health of plants in Ukraine. At the same time, the committee's meeting highlighted and drew attention to some of the inconsistencies of the bill with the laws already adopted, such as. For example, Ukraine’s Law on Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, Ukraine’s Law on Seeds, and Garden Material. Nevertheless, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 29 November of this year, after considering the bill, recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Ukraine's Ministry of Agriculture Policy supports the bill. The adoption of the bill is also supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. All comments and suggestions, including those made during the discussion of this bill, will be taken into account by the committee in furthering the document to the second reading. The implementation of the legislative act does not require additional costs from the State budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, there is a request to support it as a basis for them to continue their work. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act, 8348, please vote. For – 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts registration number 8497. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. For – 171 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, what we're talking about. Vasil Vasilovich, explain. We're just admiring people for a long time waiting for a cassation. Please tell me there's no politics here. Please, if there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, listen carefully. After the Court declared the establishment of the Ukrainian Court of Cassation illegal in December 2003, all civil matters after the appeal began to appear before the Supreme Court after the first instance. Thus, there were about 50,000 cases in the Chamber today awaiting consideration in the case. They can be considered three, four, five years later. If we don't consider this bill today, which has been introduced, the Supreme Court will be overturned, and the citizens' right to appeal will simply not be implemented. That's why we're introducing this bill of conduct so that for one year these cases, which are not accepted by the Supreme Court, will be referred to the District Courts, where there will be a cassation college and will be considered, otherwise there will be no point. But in order to avoid such a position that vineyards are dealt with in Winniek, Crimea, and so forth. We suggest here, look, let's say, in Crimea, there's a lot of stuff. In Zaporozhye others from the area. I realize that's not exactly a perfect option. There's no other way out, believe me. During this time, this year, we will create and propose to create, say, a civil court, a cassational and criminal court. And then, in this way, we can solve the problem. Now, from those courts, from those cases that go to the Supreme Court to the Civil Chamber, the Chamber only deals with a fourth. So I realize that there's some imperfection here, it's contrary to my position, my views, but the other way out, believe me, there's no. If we want the courts to work effectively, let's take this step for one year. Yesterday we made decisions on the committee, just for one year and no more. So, Vasil Fedorovich, did we make a decision? Yes. So I'm asking you very much, this is a situation that we have to deal with, we're just solving this problem fundamentally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, let's put to the vote now and put to the vote a return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda, and then we'll discuss it then. I'm voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 8497. Please vote. Dear colleagues, it's about people. Dear colleagues. For 195. The decision is not taken. Please. What? The factions? Please. Well, we have to turn it on then to discuss it, you know? Communists – 52, “Regions of Ukraine” – 11, National Party – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Block Timoshenko – 30, SPU – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, SDPU(o) – 0, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 1, “One Ukraine” – 14, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, “Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs” – o, non-fractional – 3. What? So let's ask the committee then maybe to work, because, I see, there's no will and there's no desire. Dear colleagues, since we have announced a 15-minute extension of our work, we may now consider a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on non-agricultural land. Very briefly, please, the First Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Lysun Stepan Alexiyovich. Prepare Vladimir Lechchenko. Very briefly, and then we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill that you're proposing is aimed at harmonising the rules that are in force today's Earth legislation. The draft law consists of 7 articles that contain amendments to a number of articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land, Ukrainian Land Administration Laws, the Order of Dedication in Nature, Land Protection, and State Expertise on Land-Based Documentation. The conceptual idea for changes to article 82 of the Code of Land is to expand the number of persons who can acquire land in their own non - agricultural assignments. The ultimate goal to be achieved is to establish, at a legislative level, the possibility of cases and the order of ownership of non-agricultural land for companies with 100 percent investments and their investments in Ukrainian legislation and in Ukraine of subsidiaries, branches and so on. The proposed amendments to article 84 of the Land Code should contribute to the legislative determination of land status. In particular, under debt lines of water protection zones, coastal western lanes, sanitation zones, and so forth. A forest fund outside of the population, under the penalized enterprises with approved stocks of beneficial fossils of state-owned value, used by the authorities and institutions of execution of penalties -- investigators, educational establishments of enterprises, institutions for the execution of sentences. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act, it was necessary to harmonize the rules of the Land Code, which regulate relations related to the monetary valuation of land in the conclusion of civil law agreements, in particular land lease agreements as defined by law. Making appropriate changes in articles 128 and 144 will ensure that land assessment is conducted and used in accordance with the Land Assessment Act. The introduction of amendments and additions to legislative acts provided for in the bill will enable the harmonization of land legislation and ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property. The aim of the addition to the Ukrainian Land Protection Act is to define the legal definition of the protection of the land of defence and the restrictions on the use of the land. The amendment to Article 19 of the Land Assessment Act regulates the procedure for setting the market value of land and municipal property with the aim of excluding the possibility of using other types of value, which leads to lower sales prices when separated. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Order of Dedication of Land Areas to Landowners of Particles will extend its changes to the part of the definition of the land system project concerning the organization of land particles. The implementation of the draft act does not require material and other costs at the expense of the budget. The adoption of the bill will lead to improved regulatory arrangements in the area of land relations. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u115	Vladimir Leschchenko, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u116	The committee supports and I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! The position is reasoned, as you know it. No warning to put a committee proposal to the vote? May I have your attention, please? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on agricultural land is put to the vote. Registration number 8033. For – 140, The decision is not taken. Maybe you should re-read it. Huh? Come on, let's go. The procedure. A motion for re-reading the bill is put to the vote registration number 8033. Please vote. For – 183, Bill rejected. Then we can also consider, dear colleagues. Come on, let's work! The draft Law on the Functioning of the Fuel and Energy Complex is announced for consideration during a special period. Sold to Yuri Vasilovich. First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy. And prepare for Vladimir Bronnikov. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u118	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft law on the operation of a fuel-energy complex during a special period, which calls for the establishment of legal and organizational principles for the operation of a fuel-energy complex during a special period and for the preparation of a complex for this period. The draft law sets out the main tasks of enterprises, institutions and organizations of the fuel and energy complex during a special period, their preparation, financing and material and technical security in peacetime. It is important that, in the context of the ongoing reform and restructuring of Ukraine's economy, the adoption and implementation of the draft law will allow legal and organisational foundations for the operation of the fuel and energy complex in a special period, to be placed on its enterprises independently of the forms of ownership of the mobilization tasks of production, the provision of services to meet the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, the national economy and the livelihood of the population. The bill sets the priority for the provision of fuel-energy complex products during a special period, the order of organization and the management of the complex during a special period. The adoption of this bill does not require additional material and other expenses. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council supports the adoption in the first reading of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the importance for the economy of Ukraine of the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex in a special period, please support the bill proposed for your consideration and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-01-m1.u119	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Bronnikov, please take the seat of the committee. Dear colleagues, there is the committee's decision, the committee recommends that we take it as a basis. You won't have any warnings? In order for the committee to continue to work on the second reading. The proposal of the Committee on the Adoption of a Draft Law on the Functioning of a Fuel Energy Complex in a Special Period is put to the vote. Registration number 7688. Please vote. Please vote. For – 217 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? Who wants to go back to the draft law, registration number 7688? Please vote, please vote. For – 231 We're back. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of the draft law. Registration number 7688. Please vote. Please vote calmly. For – 252 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies, I declare closed the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and tomorrow we will continue in plenary mode and schedule for Friday. Thank you for your fruitful work.
