ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited, and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:16]] 393 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on October 16, 67, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vice President of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, director of the Institute of Political and Ethnic Research, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Ivan Fedorovich Kuras. Please honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. Please sit down. One moment, dear fellows! Wait a minute! Please listen to the announcement: at 12 o'clock we'll announce a 45-minute recess, by 12.30 p.m. At 12.30 p.m., the Cabinet of Ministers with John Fedorovich Kuras ends their farewells. And I would ask during the break to pay tribute to the honor and memory of the national deputy John Fedorovich Kuras. So the break is going to be 12 to 12.45 minutes. Now for the next announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Tomić Ivan Fedorovic from the Ukrainian People’s Movement and his membership in the Ukrainian People’s Party. [[Applause]] Yes, please write it down for five minutes. Yes, please, on the sign-up table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. George Ponomarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u2	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u3	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Georgiy Georgievich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the faction held its meeting today. We have carefully analyzed the order of today’s session and are set to work today on the implementation of the agenda. But on Saturday, on the streets of Kiev, especially on the central street of the city of Kiev, Krestatik Street, there were events not only the faction of the Supreme Council, the faction of the Communists of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine should react. So in order for us to work in a balanced regime today, we calmly implemented that agenda that is, the faction asks us to give three minutes at the beginning of the session for statements by the faction and to vote on the draft decision scheduled for Wednesday, at the morning session, to hear the ministers of force about the events that took place on October 15th in the central streets of Kiev. I beg you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u5	Yes. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, certainly as they approach the parliamentary elections, political tension will increase not only in the session hall but also in the streets of our cities, to the great regret. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that today is a very stressful day. We must accept, consider, carefully consider, adopt a set of bills that are meant to weaken, or minimize the social consequences of our steps towards the World Trade Organization. And this applies, first of all, to the sector that is most likely to suffer and already suffer from the unbalanced actions of our officials. It's an agrarian industrial complex. So I'd like to focus and focus on the work on these drafts that are set out in the agenda. And one more thing, I'm paying attention to all my colleagues, please look at the conclusions that we've reached in the 2006 budget. You won't see any investment there, you won't see the strategic direction of the national economy, you won't see the ordinary drag of the blanket. We need to work more thoroughly on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u7	Alexander Bandurka, “The People’s Party” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u8	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party Dear colleagues, once again in all the places in which the authorities are present, there are queues: in the form of grants, in the form of cheques to pay off the public debt due to the savings account. I see that we have a whole series of social protection bills in our day. It would be appropriate if we also considered the issue of authority requirements in places to raise the level of work with the population. The queues stand, they cannot be taken to the heads of the Reichs, to officials of local self - government. Therefore, it would be appropriate if we took note of this in our discussions on draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u9	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u10	Thank you. I would like to point out that the poster is being hung here, and the faction of the Communists requires a speech. I think it's just a desire to ruin the normal work of the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because, in principle, there is no reason for writing there. Nobody's going to rehabilitate anyone first. Secondly, these people -- the UPA veterans -- do not need any rehabilitation from anyone, because they are rehabilitated by their own Ukrainian people and recognized their struggle to fight for Ukraine's independence by at least Herb and the flag of the Ukrainian State are the same. Under whom those men fought, and fought with honesty and courage. And so all you have to do is talk about the recognition of UPA soldiers as participants at least in combat, because this is an important and important moment. Only after that can reconciliation occur. For we do not forget that reconciliation in the nation can be only when both sides so desire. I suggest we just move on to work, to the normal work of Parliament now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u11	Vladimir Cibulko, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Mikhail Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u13	Mikhailo Ratushny. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u14	They didn't turn it on. Oh, now we're on. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party First. I'm talking to colleagues from the Communist faction, let's not start civil opposition in Ukrainian society. No one prevents soldiers who served in the Red Soviet army from celebrating May 9th. No one throws cider and rotten eggs at the service of the Moscow patriarch. Why are you doing this? Do you need blood on the streets of Ukraine? Do you need a little blood that was in your regime? UPA soldiers have long been rehabilitated as fighters for the will of Ukraine and will be rehabilitated by the Ukrainian government. You're not ashamed of this provocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We exchanged our thoughts. I'd like to ask us to arrange this way, your honor's colleagues, so that we can work in a normal and civilized manner. With regard to the proposals made by Peter Stepanovich Czybenk, we will be able to make a statement. To do that, we need to take a decision from the Supreme Council, or I can't go. Or you need two factions. One minute, please. Or two factions need to make such a request. Now I've been approached by two factions, the faction of Ukraine and the BUT faction demanding a recess or a statement. Please, and then you, Peter Stepanovich, think, if there's such a procedure, let's go. Dear colleagues! I'm going to follow the Rules, and I'm going to say, "Let's make some suggestions." Who will speak from you. I gave you the motive, I gave you the motive. I'd give you motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote, you sit down, but right now under the Rules, there's a demand for two factions, and I'll give it to them, and then I'll put it to a vote. One moment, please, dear fellows! Not a break. They're making a statement. Dear colleagues! One minute, let me tell you. May I? You can give an address for one minute on the basis of the vote. You asked for motive, you spoke. I explained that because you insist that there be three minutes for the application, and you don't have a statement from two factions, so I can ask that question to vote. Well, listen. To be voted by the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council makes such a decision, it will be, and if the Supreme Council does not take it, sorry, then let the two factions address it. Please sit down because you can't vote, please sit down. I'll put it to the vote, and you won't be able to vote. Sit down, please. Sit down or you won't be able to vote. But you'll be able to block it. Dear colleagues! For that, please note, to unlock the rostrum, there was an offer to give the faction three minutes to make the application. [[I understand there's going to be a next offer.]] Since this is not provided for by the Rules, this requires a decision of the Supreme Council. I'll put it to a vote. Who's for giving the Communist Party faction a statement within three minutes?? Please vote. [[10:14:17]] For 238. Please come in, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u16	Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. “The events of the last days have, with all clear evidence, been a real danger of neo-fascism in Ukraine, which has been repeatedly warned by the communists. This is evidenced by the day before the UNA UNSO meeting in Kiev, an organization created by the authorities to carry out penal, anti - ethnic, anti - Communist actions. This is evidenced by the insistent efforts of the authorities in the year 60 of the Great Victory over Fascism to rehabilitate bloody Fascist supporters from the UN-OPA, comparing them by status and amount of aid to veterans of the Great Homeland War, and then to review and sum up the Second World War and the findings of the Nuremberg International Tribunal. This is also evidenced by the attempt to hold a UN-OPA soldier parade on Chrystec and UNA-UNSO's efforts to have a bloody slaughter there. But the organizers of this insolent provocation, who were counting on active support for the Chinese, were calculated. Thousands of Chinese and hero city guests have responded to the call of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the organization of Ukrainian veterans, other progressive forces, and have gone to the Crusader to stop this nationalist Sabbath. All of this has been seen by television all over Ukraine, except for the only national TV channel "UT-1", which in its Saturday news release was cynical about the failure of the UK Company to participate in these downtime events. The events that have been recorded in history have shown that the authorities will certainly gain Fascism by starting the fight against communism with their own people. All of this happened because of the prominent position of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of the UN-OPA and the active promotion of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers in charge of Yehanurov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, on behalf of millions of its supporters, requires: first, the President, the authorities of Ukraine, to refuse further attempts to rehabilitate the UN-OPA. Today, there are 2 million people in the world. 843 thousand. Ukrainian citizens have already signed their signatures against the rehabilitation of the UN-OPA. The other one. To ban UNA-UNSO and its paramilitary formations as such, the theoretical foundations and practical activities which conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine. The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, immediately conduct a thorough investigation into the events that took place on October 15th on Krestatika and Majdan Independence, and inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During October 2005, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine checked the legality of decisions taken by some Western Rehabilitation Boards. Ukraine’s company claims its readiness to create a broad antifascist front. Nephasicism will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, we have proposals for four factions to grant them the right to a recess or to make applications. The first such application came from the faction “One Ukraine” and BUT. Please, who's going to perform? Bogdan Hubsky, get ready for Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u18	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, on behalf of the faction and the party “One Ukraine” and the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, I would like to make a serious statement. Today a number of bills have been put into the agenda, such as Nos. 8019-9, No. 8263, No. 8263-1, the authors of which are intended first, or to prohibit the privatization of Krivoriztal, including this object in lists of objects that cannot be privatized. Or a moratorium, in general, on selling any government packets. I mean, as they say, "we don't wash, we do katany." So let's think about the history of this question. The previous privatization of Krivoriztali, in particular, was proved by all court decisions and, including the Supreme Court, committed a violation of the laws. The case was made by the U.S. The government decided to resell the Krivoriztali package in the summer. It was predicted that there would be a completely open sale, where every willing firm that had the opportunity to invest money in their own combination, sell it, or buy it for large sums of money. It's going to be worth 20 to 25 billion. The money for the Krivoriztali package. This money, and this is a very clear position, both in the One Ukraine Party and in the Yulia Party, that this money needs to be sent back to the people who were stolen from the Saving Bank. Tens of billions of dollars were lost during the collapse of the Soviet Union. Today, pensioners, veterans, don't often have a penny, ten or twenty bucks to send kids to school to buy them some food. This is injustice, and this money needs to be returned to people. I need to have a place to take them. So, the sale of Crevystalls for 20 to 25 billion. The bracelet will give you the opportunity to get that money. The second question is where this money could be sent. It's raising wages and pensions that are scarce in our country. And in the following year, you could get a minimum wage of up to 800 dollars or up to a thousand dollars. Therefore, the position of the One Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is very clear: these objects need to be sold for real money. Because today some forces, including those that privatized the plant’s management, really want to run it. It's a disgraceful practice over the years. Who wants to ban the privatisation of the Chrysalis? Specific firms and structures that are used at underpriced prices by selling metal. Therefore, once again, the position of the only Ukraine and the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, to sell this object for 20 to 25 billion. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions, the People's Movement of Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party, Michael Ratushny has the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u20	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Today the factions of the Ukrainian People’s Party and the Ukrainian People’s Movement were going to start the week constructively. Daily, as you know, there are issues related to agriculture related to the privatization of serious objects such as the Crimson Coastal. But as it now became clear that the events that took place on 15th Street were no coincidence. There are certain political forces, including the Communist Party faction, who are interested in ensuring that there is no peace, no peace, no destabilisation in Ukraine. No wonder the Red Flags of the Communist Party in Krestatika were with the colors of royal Russia and Russian three colors. You want more blood, you lack the blood of tens of millions of Ukrainian people spilled by the Communist Party during the famines during civil wars. You do not need a strong, peaceful, democratic Ukraine, you are the fifth column of Moscow. And what happened in Chrystec confirmed that you are simply on the interests of the Kremlin here. And you, Your Honor, too, with a lovely smile. You just brought Hitler's gang into the territory of today's Ukraine, you're a Communist-Nazi, you were Hitler's accomplices and you had a parade with them in Beresti. You will never give up the blood of innocent Ukrainian citizens. UPA UN is recognized by the Ukrainian people. And she will be recognized in this room. And if you continue to shed blood, try to shed it. We're going to create a really anti-communist front that will lead to a new Nuremberg condemning you, how fascism will condemn you, and your criminal communist ideology. I'm sure those flags, red ones, in the next Parliament, will be much less, or not at all, this is the position of the Ukrainian People's Party and the People's Movement of Ukraine. We call on the Ukrainian society to rise above, to fight the quarrel, not to allow for the division and to ensure the unity that we so desperately need. Ukraine has always suffered from opposition, and it has always been directed either by Warsaw or Moscow. I think in Ukrainian society, it's enough wisdom to unite and not allow the street to resist and finally win the recognition of U.N.-UPA soldiers as fighters for Ukraine's will. And the national democratic forces will ensure that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, please pay attention to two factions of “Our Ukraine”, “Reforms and Orders” also insist on a break, or to make statements. According to the rules, who will be speaking? Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please. And let's move on to practical work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies, met last Friday with a committee to clarify the role of UN-OPA in World War II at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It was convened under the leadership of Vice-Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko. There was a report by the History Institute commission that worked on this issue. The commission has been highly qualified and its results are the following, which I want to report to everyone. First, indeed, during World War II, the Nachtigal and Roland battalions were organized, they were organized by German intelligence. Indeed, the SS division Galicina was organized. But the UN-OPA has nothing to do with these issues. More than that. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Moreover, there is a statement by the leadership of the UN-OPA that the organisation of the SS division Galicina can cause great damage to Ukraine in its future development. I mean, really these two organizations. The two organizations had nothing to do with it. Moreover, the statement that the UN-OPA was referred to in the Nuremberg process does not correspond to reality, nor did the Nürnberg process speak of UN-OPA. So all these appeals and accusations against the UN-UPA, which are spoken by the Communist faction, are false and do not match the reality. This is a complete falsification of history, as our scientists have proved. Indeed, UN-UPA fought for Ukraine. Indeed, the U.N.A.P.A. has suffered enormous damage, and the KGB departments have also suffered terrible damage to the peaceful population after it was exported. In this context, I would like to state that the faction of our Ukraine, the faction of the PRP, has nothing to do with the extremists of the relationship that are being made on the left by the faction of Communists, as is the case of UNSO UNA. We believe that the state should be a normal, peaceful solution. As a veteran of the Great Homeland War, I refer to the venerable Communists: don't take any special weight, especially the merit of the Great Homeland War. As a participant in the Great National War, I claim that the entire Soviet nation fought there and, even though it suffered enormous damage because of the enormous nonsense that was done there. That's why I stand for us to adopt the law that the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing regarding the recognition of UN-UPA as a belligerent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? They exchanged lines. Since there was an appeal during Michael Ratushny’s speech, she is entitled to a minute’s notice. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Hello! Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! Zara Katusheva stood here, and directly Mikhailo Ratushny spoke. Please, the microphone. Calm down! Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u24	Dear compatriots! I wish to address the entire people of Ukraine: the Nuremberg Process has already made a point in this regard. To rewrite history, to rehabilitate UN-OPA criminals again speaks of the true face of our Ukraine. I hope that the rostrum will no longer be used by criminals to promote those who fought against their people. And, by the way, he's still fighting to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u25	Yes, that's all, thank you. Your last name wasn't mentioned, calm down! I'm asking you, both of you, and you calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u26	Once again, we want to say that the Company will never allow fascism to return to Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to shout. Once again, I want to say that according to the requirements of the Rules, if personally called. Zara Katusheva stood here and Mikhailo Ratushny addressed Zara Katusheva. And calm down, please! I don't serve you, I don't serve you, I serve Parliament. And don't push me! That's enough! That's enough! That's enough, dear fellows. Once again, dear colleagues, I follow the Rules. All of it. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Please don't yell, don't know what it's about. So let's say they distribute this draft decree to the Secretariat, and then, on demand, I'll put it into the agenda, let it be distributed, but it's not in the hall yet. Let them give it to you. Let the Secretariat give it to you first. Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, please. Dear National Deputies! We must now consider the list, a number of bills that relate to the same issue - the future fate of the Chrysalis, in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board. So it's suggested that we now consider going back to the previously unsupported draft law registration number 8019-9. Then we will consider the inclusion of other issues in the order of the day. Then the report will take on each of these issues, the report from the single committee, and then discuss all the projects, and vote on each one separately. Because, in fact, they relate to the same question. No warning? You don't? Therefore, I would like your attention, my fellow Members, to vote on the return to the previously unsupported draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights I am not privatized to” on the VAT “Criminal”. Registration number 8019-9. Please vote. [[10:32:01]] For 236 We're back to reviewing the draft law. Now let's move on, dear fellows. The factions? Please. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 48, the People's Party 30, Our Ukraine - 0, Block Timoshenko - 1, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Forward, Ukraine! - 19, SDPU (o) - 20, One Ukraine - 0, Reforms and Order - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, Labour Ukraine - 9, non-fractional - 15. Now, dear colleagues, I will put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of other documents. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda the Moratorium Act the privatization of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT “Croat State Mining and Metallurgical Combined ‘Cruvoristal’. [[Registration 8263]] Author Ludmila Kirichenko, national deputy, of course. [[10:33:23]] For 244 We've put it into the agenda. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Act on the Preservation of the State of the Shares Package in the VAT "Crivoristal". This is registration number 6263-1, author of Gennady Samofalov, National MP. [[10:34:03]] For 244 Decision taken. I'm voting on another proposal for a day-to-day draft Law on Temporary Restrictions on Privatization, registration number 8274. Author of National Deputy Zubanov Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. [[10:34:38]] For 243 Decision taken. Another draft of decree No. 8274-1, the author of which is National Deputy Demöhein Volodymyr, he removes it, this draft decree. Yes, dear fellows, let's make arrangements for the rules of procedure. The proposal is: Kirichenko Ludmila for two bills, then up to five minutes. The answer to your questions in three minutes. To the authors of other projects, up to three minutes for the report, from the committee to five minutes. And for 15 minutes of discussion. No objections? None. Please, Sophia Fedorovna, two documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to return to the bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, registration number 8019-9 from 09.09. [[on WAT KIMK KROWORIZSTAL]] 2005, because once again I want to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the assurances of senior officials, violations of legislation continue, particularly in the process of privatization. Of course, I understand that since everyone knows my position as a supporter of privatization, the question arises: Why am I proposing such a bill? I support market relations. However, in the situation that has arisen, I propose that the shares of VAT “Criminals” remain state property for the time being. In my opinion, this will help to raise the image of the state, because it is widely known that today's competition for the sale of VAT shares by Krivožistal is taking place at a time when investor complaints that have purchased shares in the previous competition have not yet been concluded. By the way, I'd like to point out that no court decision has indicated a violation of the law by an investor. Thus, in order to bring about a transparent competition with respect to law enforcement, it is necessary to conclude cases first, since integrity of private property is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Today, despite the assurance that all should observe the laws, they ignore everyone. And first of all, the government that announced the sale of VAT shares to Crimsonstall, at a time when court cases had not yet been completed. So I would like to remind you all that the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to announce the VAT competition “Cruvoristal” was announced on 10.08.2005, at a time when the Supreme Court had a call for applications and the Supreme Court's decision only took place on 31.08.05. This is a direct and gross violation of legislation. Of course, I also understand the concern of colleagues who report that in the current management of VAT “Cruvoristal”, the State Property Fund is used to finance certain political forces. We have considered this situation. I want to point out that yes, it does. However, I would like to stress that, and for every MP, it is known that this is not just a situation on VAT Krivorizstal, it is a situation on every state enterprise. So I'm proposing to change this situation, first of all, I'm law enforcement. But I would like to address and propose a protocol commission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to urgently develop measures for the implementation of the produced product of the combination, exclusively auctions. This will make it orderly in this company. I'm addressing all of you. Dear colleagues, support this bill to give the President a chance to get out of this situation that his previous government has brought him into and preserve his face at the international level. I ask that this law be voted not only in the first but also in general. Thank you for your attention. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that my second bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the privatization of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT “Croat State Mining Metallurgical Combined” bears the same grounds. I want you to understand, today 93 percent of the shares are in the State Property Fund and the State Property Fund is running this company. So, to your mind, I'm drafting two bills to pass on these shares, a package of shares is passed on to companies that aren't eligible, i.e. a list of number one, enterprises that aren't privatized. This is Bill 8019-9. And the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u29	Let me finish. You all have it, don't you? Please, questions, respectable colleagues, three minutes, if any, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Ala Alexandrovska, faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u30	Sophia Fedorovna! Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. The issue of “Criminalis” is a national security issue, and we understand that those enterprises that provide maximum income are enterprises that guarantee economic stability in Ukraine. I think we need to support proposals to introduce a moratorium on the privatization of the company's stock package. But how do you feel about the landscapings that are here in the hall on the resell of "Crimsons"? That is, it is proposed that you know that there was a bill that proposes to take the “Criminal” State and then again by means of what procedures there are not important, but to sell again in private hands. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u31	Thank you so much for asking. I am very negative about this and the confirmation of my bills. I would like to say that today's sale, the sale of the Kirovorost package at all, is entirely inappropriate, because today Ukraine's economic status is not appropriate. You know, we've lost so much in the international arena with our reprivatization statements that the investor who comes to us today won't give us the money we're looking for. This is first of all. Nevertheless, I would like to point out another question. That money, anyway. What is privatization, what is the goal of privatization? It is that the money we would receive from privatization would be for Ukraine's development, for Ukraine's economic growth. This money, which today so strongly wants to get from the sale of the Crimsons, first of all, you understand very well, will go for a meal, because it's no secret for anyone, there's no money in the budget today to pay the budget, there's no money today to pay the pension. And, of course, today the only way out is for the government to see it. The Government had seen it sell the enterprise, the shares of the enterprise, and thus reimburse the money. I think it's not a solution, I think we can find money in a completely different place and solve these problems in a completely different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u32	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u33	Thank you. I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr. Paklusenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u34	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u35	“Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozhye region. Ludmila Fedorovna, please tell me, who do you think is lobbying for a quick, urgent exhibition of such a serious stock package? Who is interested in selling such a serious factory in vanity and haste? First. Secondly, you are absolutely right that this issue cannot be raised until all judicial proceedings have been resolved until the last question in the courts has been resolved. It's the third moment that's very important. If this plant and this stock package are to be displayed, it must be exhibited on specially designed terms. And the last question is: your commission is now in charge of the crisis economy, you know what happens there in terms of efficient management of this enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u36	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer your questions in an orderly fashion. Yes, first of all, as I said before, they lobby for the sale of this business, and we see it from the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, of course, the government that has gone is the Government of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. I don't think there's much to talk about. The situation is so understandable: why did this happen? And, of course, those who support it will support the bill against the bill. One thing I want to say to you is that, in fact, the commission that I am leading on the privatization of the Supreme Council is following closely the economic situation that was created at the enterprise today. I mean, she's not the best. But I would like to remind everyone that prior to the arrival at the Crimson Castle of Dubina, you may remember that this is all, yes, that the Crimson Castle was on the verge of bankruptcy at all. This was a serious economic situation with this enterprise. Dubina has removed this enterprise and if today the Government does not take urgent measures to restore the economy in this enterprise to a solution, particularly the realization of this, of the products produced by Crimsondale, I think we will certainly have a second such situation. I don't think the government of Yehanurov will allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u37	Yes, thank you. Sit down, Ludmila Fedorovna. So, please, Gennady Samofal on draft regulation 8263-1. Prepare Volodymira Zubanov. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Ivanovic, distinguished colleagues, the parliamentary faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine” has instructed me to present to you the position of the faction's ears on one of the most pressing issues that concern Ukrainian citizens today, on the issue of Krivorozstal. Our position is set out in the draft decree on the preservation of the State's shares package in VAT “Crioristal”. The adoption of a draft decision on the preservation by the State of the stock package in VAT “Crioristal” is based on the strategic value of the enterprise for the economy and security of the State. And the need to ensure the stable and efficient operation of the flagman of the Ukrainian Metallurgy VAT “Cruvoristal”. VAT “Cruvoristal” is the unique and largest company of the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine. It consists of a mining and enrichment complex, an agglomeration, a coxochemical and metallurgical production that enables the production of metal to complete its production cycle. Net profit was 870 million dollars in 2003, and in 2004 it was 2 billion. Six tenths of a billion. One million dollars. In the first half of 2005, it was 790.3 million dollars. On July 1, 2005, the number of workers was 56,000. The main objective of the decision is to protect the national interests of the state, which provides control over enterprises that are strategically important to the economy, for the security of the State and ensure high efficiency of production while in state ownership. We suggest: First. It is considered appropriate to leave a 93.02 stock package of the State in the VAT “Cruvoristal”. The other one. Encourage the President of Ukraine to take steps to preserve the state's ownership of the VAT stock package “Cruvoristal” and to stop the competition from selling it. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, will address in an orderly manner the issues related to the announcement of the sale of the stock package in VAT "Crivoristal" and its termination. Four. The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation to ensure immediate preparation and introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft law on the moratorium on the privatization of the state stock package in VAT “Crivorizstal”. I support the Committee's proposal that the Government develop a competitive auctioning and trading mechanism for the sale of this enterprise. If this matter is resolved, there will be increased income in the budget of the State, each family, especially the poachers, will receive additional resources to improve its well-being and will benefit only the Power. I would like to support this draft regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Vladimir Zubanov with regard to the draft decree, registration number 8274.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u40	Vladimir Zubanov, faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”. There are at least three reasons to suspend privatization in our State before the parliamentary elections. The first reason is not a favourable investment climate, because we already know that investors say that let us see what will happen in Ukraine after the parliamentary elections and then we will decide whether to buy in that State or not. The second is that the Government of Ukraine has done everything possible and impossible in the past nine months to make this investment climate worse, and now we see that no one wants to buy property in Ukraine at normal prices. First reason. We will not be able to sell our facilities at a good price in an unfavourable investment climate. Second. Where do we want to send the money we get from privatization? We can already see that the government wants to send this money to eat. If the Januković Government has raised pensions and wages through economic growth, the Government has seen that it cannot achieve economic growth, it looks around at the same time, so that it can still be sold to travel. The third reason for the moratorium on privatization is that there is no effective control over privatization. As long as power is in the hands of one person, corruption is inevitable, that is, after political reform has been adopted, its implementation after the parliamentary elections may continue to be privatized. And the second. As long as there is no law on opposition until the opposition has a legitimate basis for controlling power, rather than simply bringing people out to rallies without any legitimate grounds, we will not control privatization until then. All of this will harm our State. If you look at this example, there's a family head and he's got a big family, and he's already sold everything in the house that he had. There's one cow left, and the kids say, "Daddy, let's get to work, let's get to work." No, Dad insists, let's sell the last cow, buy the ice cream for two months, and then the grass doesn't grow. Right now, our Government, our authority, is setting an example of this attitude towards its country, its people. That is, any continuation of privatization under these conditions is an anti-national, anti-national policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee to the presentation, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u42	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, Property, Privatization and Bankruptcy, the draft Law 8019-9 introduced by the People's Deputy Deputy of Ukraine, Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna, which provides for the listing of sites not to be privatized, the State-owned package of shares of the Krivorozgos Mining and Metallurgical Combined Krivorozstal. The motives discussed at the meeting of the Committee were generally expressed here in plenary meeting. The opinion was divided to some extent, but the Committee eventually decided to support the Act amending the list of property rights that were not subject to privatization, i.e. to introduce the State package of shares of the Krivoroz Mining and Metallurgical Combined into the list of non-privatizations. This did not mean that Kirichenko was reporting here to enable the President to get out of this situation with minor moral losses and so on. For example, I have a personal opinion that the President will not sign any of these laws that are being passed on to the Supreme Council. With regard to Bills 8263, 8263-1, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Kirichenko and the People's MP Samofalov, and 8274, introduced by the People's MP Zubanov, they were not considered on the Committee because they had not yet joined the Committee, so I will not comment on the Committee's opinion, but on my own opinion. First of all, the situation today in the area of privatization and, as we shall say, the reprivatization, the reprivatization of Krivorostali, is due to two points. First moment. This is because the law transferred the functions of the State in the area of property rights to corporate governance. That is, the State Property Fund is both responsible for the administration of this property and the management of that property, i.e. it sells them. In fact, this work is being conducted in an uncontrollable manner. As the President vetoed the State Property Fund Act, this murky water is growing even more, becoming more blurry and enabling today's ruling regime outside the control of the Supreme Council, beyond the control of the people, to unleash public property. An example of such dissension is the sale of the State-owned stakes package of the Krivoroz Mountain Metallurgy. I would like to refer to the deputies present here in the Hall to recall how they voted when a bill on the sale of the State project, the Krivoroz Mining and Metallurgical Combined, was discussed. How did they vote? And remember, now, understand why you've changed your mind? The Communists voted consistently. Such enterprises cannot be transferred into private hands, nor can they be sold to anyone. And second moment. Today, the Ministry of Defence has dropped more than 200 military sites without an estimate of their value. Only by the Crimea have 29 such cities been thrown out for sale completely uncontrollable, without evaluation, without realizing that we will lose the ability of these facilities of the Ministry of Defence to be sold today. I therefore believe that even if we did not consider the draft Law on the Temporary Restriction of the Privatization Series at the Committee meeting, we must adopt this law in order to stop the sale of public property criminally in the unknown and for what purposes. We understand that this will obviously go to an electoral campaign, so we are against public property financing electoral campaigns by any party today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed, 15 minutes. Please put on the table the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performances. Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u44	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies. The bill aimed at halting the process of privatization of the ‘Cruvoristals’ is an open attempt by the White Glove and the Red Opposition to strike at the new power before the electoral campaign, ignoring the socio-economic interests of the Ukrainian people. The authors of the bill are aware that if the privatisation of the Crimsonstals stopped, the state budget would lose billions of dollars to be directed primarily towards social pay. So I want to draw the attention of radio audiences and television viewers to the cynicism with which these "protectors of workers' interests" are willing to cut off the budget for salaries, pensions and other social benefits, in order to gain political profit. The issue of Criboristal was discussed in the formation of the State Privatisation Programme in 2000-2002. and then it was approved to start before the privatisation preparation of the combination. The natural question is why today's state-owned defenders did not raise these questions at a time in 2004, when Crevystall was passed over to Ahmtov and Pinchuk's property at a much lower price, its real value. It should also be recognized that raising the question of leaving “Criminals” in state ownership, the day before the competition, with its privatisation scheduled for October 24th, could have an irreparable impact on Ukraine's investment attractiveness, a reference to the strategic importance of “Criminals” for the economy and security of the State, which are argued by the need to approve the bill by its authors, does not withstand criticism because, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, metallurgical enterprises do not belong to the number of objects that are not privatized as a result of their national importance. In fact, Krivorizstal is one of the most energy-intensive, material-efficient and environmentally hazardous enterprises in Ukraine, and some of its products are made up of semi-manufacturers sold in world markets at a price that is not much different from the price of metal scrap. The transformation of the “Criminals” into a modern enterprise requires a multibillion-dollar cost for which the state cannot go in the next few years. Privatization is the only thing that can solve the problems of this enterprise in the short term. I therefore call on the Supreme Council to reject the bills aimed at halting the privatisation of the “Criminal” such as those that conflict with Ukraine's national interests and the government's programming tasks. And those factions that support the President, who want to work with the President, including in a modern electoral campaign and are members of the government, should seriously consider a common policy of overcoming the economic crisis in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u45	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists is invited to speak. Basil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u46	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština To the listed list of enterprises that are not privatized, Communists have repeatedly demanded and required the introduction of the Crevice Mining Metallurgical Combined, which is strategically important for the economy and security of the State, and is linked to the protection of the State. In Soviet times, "Cruvoristal" was a beacon of heavy metallurgy. But the so-called democratic chaos put a combination of legs on its head, very quickly and deeply raised tentacles of rustic and predatory privatization, which betrayed state interests and caused the enterprise to lose billions of dollars. And it's clear, as a white day, that privatization of such enterprises is not only pointless, but it's causing irreparable large economic, financial and social losses. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine predicted what this globula was leading to and demanded that the privatisation process of the “Cruvoristals” be stopped. Representatives of today’s government fell to their knees in the presidential campaign, promising to return this unique combination to state property. And then X came, and the new government announced the start-up price of "Criminals". This raises the question: What happened? Will the process of new privatization be transparent? It will not appear transparent, for the government needs to carry out the irreprehensible desire of the United States of America, where toothaches fail to buy a combination. After all, John Herbst repeatedly suggested that certain American companies were interested in purchasing the combination, but they were not even admitted to the tender. And it is likely that since the start of the stock sale, the new authorities and Mrs. Semenyuk will be examining honesty and integrity, although there is great doubt. And you don't have to make a myth that the money that comes from privatization is going to go to finance government development projects that envision funding from the State budget, you don't have to cheat people again, that the work of the new investor is going to be honest and not in the shadow sector. Therefore, today, as the Communist faction requires, all decisions to privatise the mining and metallurgical combination of “Cruvoristal” must be immediately repealed and should be terminated first by the President of Ukraine and his team to produce the so-called “acquisition scheme”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u47	Yes, thank you. Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u48	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Today, in our society, Krivorostal has become synonymous with some permanent social cataclysm. And it is such an impression that, unfortunately, we have nothing more than a problem of how quickly to privatize this enterprise. I must tell you that, dear colleagues, to date, the rights of those speakers have been that the talk of privatization, but more rightly, of the impossibility of privatizing such a large enterprise, which not only ensures the employment of the population, but which provides a huge budget that works effectively, cannot be resolved in any way expeditiously. Based on this logic, it is thought that we should take a decision with you that the privatization of the Crimsons should be suspended. We must as a society, as a State, realize that this is an object, under what conditions, to whom and when it should be privatized. And to do that, we need to take a break. Otherwise, we will do the same again in a burning way that will be ashamed of ourselves. On the basis of the foregoing, I propose bill 8019-9 to support, bill 8263 to support, draft regulation 8263, one to support, but I wish to remind and appeal to all those present in the room, the author of the law. Our colleague, Samofalov, spoke and insisted on draft regulation 8263-1, I think it is necessary to enter the protocol and, accordingly, another paragraph in the draft regulation, according to which we, as the Supreme Council with you, undertake the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an immediate mechanism for implementation through the auction of the production of Krivorostali. In doing so, we eliminate the base for abuse because the ready-made production of the Crimsons is certainly the main thing around which the whole of the cheese boron goes. Therefore, in the Supreme Council's decision on this subject, I stress, 8263-1, we must introduce another paragraph to which, I repeat, we must oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an immediate mechanism for implementation through the “Criminals” auction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u49	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please, your right to speak. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction will support Bills 8019 and 8263, because we hope that finally a step will be taken to ensure that the income enterprise is a key undertaking of strategic importance for Ukraine at last at the disposal of the State. We have to consider the draft budget with you shortly next year, and we know with you what major problems await us because in the income section of the budget there is not enough funds to deal with many social problems. However, the root of this evil is that high-income enterprises today make profits to individuals but do not fill Ukraine's budget. I would like to say that, according to the note given to us, in 2003, this combination was the only state-owned enterprise that had given the State Treasury 190 million dividends, while all the enterprises were entirely left with only 20 million. That's where the root of evil is! Therefore, Communists have consistently raised the question that enterprises that are strategically important for Ukraine should be owned by the State. Our attitude towards Krivoroztali is known at first; we demand that this enterprise be not resold, that the enterprise be state-owned and that the proceeds of its activities go into the budget of Ukraine and that all the social funds of our State be filled. And I understand why the representatives of the “Our Ukraine” faction make the opposite proposal because it is the Government of Yulia Timoshenko who has raised the issue of the need for the re-sale of “Criožtali”. Because this is the only way that this Government could have covered the holes that it itself created in our budget. Only in this way could they have tried to address the problem of the implementation of the populist budget. We must explain to people if there is no stable income to the State budget, there will be no stable state scheme and job creation, wage increases and pensions. If there is no income from such enterprises, if these incomes do not go to the State budget, we will continue to have a deficit in the Pension Fund. And I remind you that today, more than, almost two billion dollars in fines is missing from the Pension Fund. If Krivorojstal does not work for the State if the profit does not come to the public budget unless there are stable payments to the Pension Fund, what we will be able to tell our voters, the citizens of Ukraine. I repeat, the Communists advocate that Krivoroztal be a state-owned enterprise and work for the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u51	Yuri Karmazin, faction of Our Ukraine, please, Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like today to hear what the government is thinking about, including taking money to sew a budget hole that will now be equal to four billion dollars. I'd like to hear what the State Property Fund thinks about this. I'd like to hear the conclusions of the budget committee. It's not my wish, it's a desire for the Budget Code, it's a requirement of a code. We had no right to consider the matter without having these documents in our hands. We don't have them on our hands, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's what's happening: yesterday's acceptance ended, the last application for the competition. Each of the participating companies contributed one billion dollars to the State Property Fund, each of which I emphasize. And three of them are the world's largest steel manufacturer: "Metal Steel Gemney" GmbH, which is LS Smart Group, and others, and the third and Arcelo. Both first and third, respectively, take first and second place in the production of steel in the world. I'd like to stop at this previous price of 10 billion dollars, and remember, there was a price that was sold, 4 billion, or 2.5 less. And we're going to have to give these 4 billion right now. We have to pay back because according to the court's decision, these companies have returned to state property. That's why the Science and Technology Department says that we need to examine in detail and thoroughly the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers to protect Ukraine's strategic and economic and political interests. It's absolutely the right thing to say in this case, scientific expertise. And if it wasn't for that privatisation, if it wasn't for 4 billion now, I'd agree with the conclusions of those who said: you don't have to privatize, you don't have to, and you don't have to gradually take the money that's going to come from this company. But since we have one moment to give today, I would like to ask you, honourable colleagues, who were speaking at another point of view: please tell me whether or not you have the logic of what's worse, the better. It's better for you, and the worse it will be for Ukraine. I'd like a better one for Ukraine. So I'm asking you to give the floor to the government, the holding fund and the budget committee, and let's take the smart one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u53	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. There's no reason why we haven't been able to dupe the MPs, I'll give them a motive. Please, Eugene Gorenik was written for motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u54	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Deputies! Dear radio listeners! "Cruvoristal" is one of the few examples of implementation of the programme "The Rich Will Help the Poor". And it is not surprising to me why the representatives of the “Regions” faction are so much in favour of stopping its privatisation. Well, the rich in "Regions" don't want to help the poor. And you don't have to talk about social programs. The same one that was demagogy in Yanukovic's election, that's what's left. Sold in 2004, closed pensions, now they want pensioners not to receive those pensions. Let us examine the consequences. There will be no pension for pensioners, there will be delays in paying wages for the regions. Ladies and gentlemen, we're still going to have a Ukrainian social power. So it is suggested that we deflect and figure out where the power came from in the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u55	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u56	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dearly Honourable Speaker! The Socialist Party faction was definitely against the privatisation of the Crimsonstals, and we are in this position today. And that's why I would like the choirs, so that no one would talk, to draw any conclusions as to why this is the case, we didn't vote to privatise the Ccrivoristal, but rather to vote on those who are proposing bills today to leave this enterprise in state ownership. We had to listen to the socialists' thoughts, support them, and so we would have a state-owned enterprise that would make big profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u57	Stepan Davemuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the privatisation of the Chrysalis has acquired a symbolic character, and the world's business society is watching closely what is happening in this particular part. We are often in favor of government. World economic science has long proved to be ineffective in government. And Ukrainian practices have shown striking examples of looting right under the umbrella of government. Therefore, the privatisation of the Ccrivoristali should be conducted honestly, openly and subject to the control of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u59	John the Rabbit, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u60	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I'm concerned that those who have recently toothed the decision to privatize the Krivoridz combine are today taking it back into their possession. I think that this position is something else -- really, to make the authority of Ukraine so that no one has to deal with this Ukraine, so that the oligarchs and the mafia will fight to the end here. And there are other political forces that are wise in a very backward number. So our proposal is that we have to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers, we have to listen to the State Property Fund and finally understand where we are today, because if there are applicants, if there are people who are willing to make money, then that position is only going to lower the image of Ukraine, that is to say, cut the budget of money, and therefore the social benefits. So let us listen to all sides and not torpedo Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u61	Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u62	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Regardless of the unfavourable environment in the world metal market, competition for privatization will be extremely harsh. Although the question of the legality of this privatization has not yet been confirmed by the last European Court of Human Affairs. It is only natural for Western and Ukrainian claimants to win the Western transnational corporations, but there are certain things to be expected. What are they? The excessive amount of currency to go to Ukraine will first lead to devaluation and later to the revaluation of bracelets, and this will be caused by a very difficult and severe blow to the economy of Ukraine. But today we don't have to ask the government what he wants. He wants money in cash because they don't pay social standards. So today we need to think, not about who will win, but about keeping Ukrainian businesses in Ukraine’s possession, and we will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u63	Please, Sergei Soboljeva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u64	Sobolev, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, it is clear to all and, I think, the vote in this room will now be quite specific. Those who don't want to pay real money for a unique enterprise and take over the company for 4 billion dollars. The bracelet, they don't want to pay four times as much for a clean, open, open competition. This means our decision that the state of the budget will have to give to those who stole this enterprise back to the state 4 billion. A bracelet and that's what everyone needs to understand. That's why our party faction advocates that this enterprise be privatized, the starting price is 2.5 times higher, that's 1 billion. That's right. And so we're going to get 10 billion. And so we're going to get the necessary indicators not only in the budget, but we're going to get the necessary indicators for the privatization to go straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u65	Please, the microphone of Andria School, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that it is really worth taking a look at the situation where the public stock package is being held by those who have appealed to the Supreme Council yesterday to allow this object to be privatized, and today they are voting in favour of leaving the stock package in the state. I mean, they're now voting to freeze the privatization process, freeze the process of budgeting. What will happen to Ukraine’s budget? I would also like to point out that I think it's continuing to some extent and the meeting that the President had with the oligarchs. They were delegating to their factions of authority to push the button to stop the privatisation of Krivoristali in Ukraine. It's not clear, because we said, previous privatization, it was said in Maidan, it was illegal, the court made a decision, and now we have to make legal privatization. How, indeed, the world will see us when we speak one day and the next day we do another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u67	Please, from the government of Sergey Andryovich Romanyuk, First Deputy Minister of Economics. Microphone, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The government denies that the government is against the adoption of amendments to the law amending the Ukrainian Act on the List of National Property Rights Items that are not subject to privatization. The government is opposed to any attempt or halting the process of privatising VAT on three grounds: political, economic, fiscal. Politically, because this decision is actually going to harm the policies of President Yehanurov of Ukraine and the government of Yehanurov, aimed at economic stability, aimed at growth. From economics, because, in fact, we're disengaging from our economy, from a leading metallurgical company that's already taking part in the competition, and we've invested our money to work with a leading Ukrainian company. 3 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January From fiscal and financial sources, because these privatisation costs are very much needed in the budget today to meet the social obligations of the state to the population, to the workers. So, before you take this decision to suspend the privatisation of the Crimsons, I ask you to take very careful account of these three basic aspects. I'd like to give the floor to a representative of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u71	One minute, take your time. I want to introduce you. Well, don't control it anymore. He has the first deputy head of the State Property Fund, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to brief you on the situation that is now in competition. It is very dangerous to make such a decision today. Yesterday was the end of the deadline for accepting applications. On the 24th, there's an open competition that's going to be broadcast on television absolutely transparently. If that decision had been made earlier, it would still make sense. Today, companies that have made pledges to the State Property Fund can present very large bills to the courts and states of Ukraine. I would very much like you to think about the consequences of this decision. She's late, she's late. If it had been before, we could have discussed it. Today the contest is over. And really, three of the most influential companies in the world have applied for this competition. And the main thing is that we've only implemented the privatisation plan by 10 percent so far. If this year is unable to sell the “Criminal”, the task will not be carried out in the budget. I'm asking you to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Actually, my dear colleagues, I think we're talking more and more about emotion. Especially when representatives of the government and the State Property Fund were speaking, it would be worth saying, 10 billion dollars per year, how much the enterprise gives and how many years it takes to do this to the firm that will benefit from Ukraine’s prospects. You have to speak would be weighty, reasoned, figures and facts. So far we're talking about politics: Parliament speaks politically and you're also getting involved in this river. So we need perhaps a more serious conversation on this point, because each side has a political argument, Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm going to bet on a discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Just a minute. I'm going to put it to a vote, but I'd like to point out that this is where the proposal sounded, and we're the only ones that's going to be in each of the draft regulations and draft laws that we're going to be considering, we're adding one point that we're going to assign to the government right now, or we're going to immediately develop the order of sale of products on auctions, exclusively on auctions, right? Taking into account each of these projects that we are going to vote on, this is a complement. Please note, I am putting to the vote, to adopt, on a basis, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized in respect of VAT “Criminal”, registration number 8019-9. Please vote. [[11:25:04]] For 256 Decision taken. Taking into account the correction I've been talking about. Let's move on. The vote is based on the draft law on the introduction of a moratorium on the privatization of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT “Croat-Croat State Mining Metallurgical Combined ‘Cruvoristal’. Based on the plugin, the supplement I was talking about. Based on the base. [[11:25:48]] For 255 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the maintenance of the State-owned shares package in VAT “Cruvoriztals”, registration number 8261, 8263-1, adds the item on the assignment of the Cabinet of Ministers to process the mechanism and the procedure for the sale of products exclusively on auctions. I'm voting on a draft for adoption as a whole. Please vote. [[11:26:36]] For 256 I'll take the order. The factions? Please. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 50, National Party – 44, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, “Forward Ukraine!” – 19, SDPU (o) – 20, “Reforms and Order”, “One Ukraine” – zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 11, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 10, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, we are now voting on the Temporary Restrictions on Privatization. Registration number 8274 with the addition of the point I was talking about. With that in mind, I'm voting for this project as a whole as a decision. Please vote. [[11:27:40]] For 259. I'll take the order. The factions, please. The Communist faction is 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 50, the People's Party is 41, our Ukraine is 2, Block Timoshenko is 2, SPU is 25, Ukrainian People's Party is 0, Forward Ukraine! 19, SDPU is 20, Reforms and Orders, One Ukraine is zero, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 12, National Movement of Ukraine is 0, NDP, Labour Ukraine is 11, non-fractional is 21. Let's get to it. Come on, please, Carmazin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we cannot, by decree of the Supreme Council, invalidate the functioning of the current laws of Ukraine. Don't you understand, honourable national deputies, that in your attempt to tempt Yashchenka now, to tempt Yehanur to do worse, you're only doing worse to your Ukrainian people. If he's yours, if he's your people. It seems to me that, without any expert opinion, without the conclusion of the budget committee, the budget committee has not concluded either on the first question or on the second or third. And we're taking it very seriously. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you are responsible for the Rules, you are responsible for the quality of the laws. Volodymyr Mikhailovich is a brutal violation of the Constitution and, in particular, of article 19, where all organs must act within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution. You see, we can't right now by our determination to repeal the existing laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! In this case, one minute. At this point, I acted exclusively under the Rules, before the procedure. The laws were adopted as a basis, and the decrees were adopted as decrees. If there is one objection, the law in general will not be put to the vote. And the objection is, you express it, and for the vote, I can't put it in general. Let us now consider the draft Law on the Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy. Registration number 5080. Reporter Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, please. Very short, let's do the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u76	Very short. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! A second reading of the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, is before you. [[Registration number 5080]] The first reading adopted last year envisions the basic principles and priorities of state policy in the area of the APC. It will be based on a strategy and strategy for the further development of Ukraine's agro-industrial development. By the way, after the adoption of the bill in the first reading by a group of people's deputies of our faction, the People's Party of Lithuania has prepared a draft law on the development strategy of the APC by 2015. But submitted to the Supreme Council, we hope that in the near future it will be considered and accepted. The draft law, which is currently under consideration, has received 21 amendments, national deputies of Ukraine, and 18 proposals have been rejected 3. With regard to the rejected amendments, the motives are Amendment No. 7 on page 4 of the People's Deputies of Tereshuk to replace the words “improvement of the public administration system” with “improvement of the system and functions of the public administrations”. It is out of the question, since the system includes the functions of the authorities. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich agreed with this amendment. Amendment No. 10, page 5 of the Polish National MP Kiril Ananiyovich, to supplement the paragraph with the words “in the field of the implementation of agricultural products by manufacturing and manufacturing organizations”. It is rejected by the Committee because interbranch economic relations include the scope of agricultural production. If the venerable Kirilo Ananiyovich insists, then the hall must be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u77	He doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u78	Don't insist. Amendment number 13 on page seven of the Karmazin People's Deputy. We agreed that he was taking off the amendment. Thus, the committee proposes to adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, factions, to mobilize, let's make further positive decisions. A committee proposal shall be put to the vote. With motive? Please reverse the vote. Glacier Vladimir, please. We agreed with you, my dear colleagues, that we would consider a package of laws relating to the agri-industrial complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u80	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which is discussed in the second reading, is far more positive but more negative. This is a practical adaptation of the law to today’s harmful village and to the rural politics of the regime. We've lost food security. We'd have to write down here: "rebuilding destroyed," giving peasants the right to choose the form of farming, the provision of technology, the state to go back face to the village and to the ground, the frame, because unemployment is scary and so on. So I think that the draft in the second reading can't be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u81	Volodymyr Alexanderovich, so you could make suggestions and adjustments so that it could be taken into account, made more perfect law. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, "Our Ukraine". Our faction has the opposite point of view with regard to a colleague. Which he did before, and not only because my, for example, offerings to our entire faction, they were taken into account. And we need to approach the problem of the agri-industrial complex in a comprehensive way, so give it up for that kind of tutology. And so the basic law on the basic principles of state agrarian politics is about to be reformulated by a separate local law on the solution of a particular problem. That is why it is logical to adopt the law first and then to adopt other laws in its development. We understand that the general concept of all issues does not solve, but without a map, without a schematic, without a plan, we can't decide whether or not separate laws are agreed upon. And the absence of such a law often led to conflicting decisions. Therefore, we ask everyone to accept the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u83	I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the session room, let's vote on the three laws that we have to consider in the second reading, and then we're going to announce the break, and we're going to demonstrate our consolidated position. A proposal for approval by the second reading committee and generally as the Law of the Law on Basic Principles of State Agrarian Politics is put to the vote. Registration number 5080. It's about basic principles. Please vote. [[11:35:39]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law registration number 5080. Please vote. [[11:36:07]] For 247 We're back. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Law on Basic Principles of State Agrarian Policy. Registration number 5080. Please vote. [[11:36:35]] For 271 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for Dismantling or Dismantling Sugar Plants is announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Registration No. 6113. Oleg Yukhnovsky, secretary of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for Dismantling or Dismantling Sugar Plants. Registration No. 6113. The short contents of the project. This law is aimed at preserving the economic security of the state, protecting its interests, preventing the destruction of entire property complexes of sugar plants, effectively exploiting their productive capacities, supporting the socio-economic development of the regions. The project is proposed to introduce moratoriums on the alienation of immovable property and other essential products for the production of sugar plants by 2008. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a six-month deadline for the development and approval of a comprehensive programme for the restructuring of sugar factories, with the provision of retraining, the order of exit from operations that are not subject to restructuring, the preservation of the social sphere of enterprises and the financing of these facilities. To be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a bill on the development of the beet - sugar industry and the social protection of its workers is one and a half percent of the value of sugar produced. In fact, it is the initiative of the National Sugar Association of Ukraine, with social fund-accumulated funds from the congregation, that will make it possible to partially solve the social problems of businesses that have been closed down by the sector itself. The draft Law included five suggestions that were considered and taken into account by the committee. The committee proposes a draft Law banning the alienation of immovable property and other basic means of production, which are part of the whole of the single property complexes of companies producing sugar, to be adopted in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A second reading proposal is put to the vote by the Committee on Admission and, as a whole, by the law of the Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium for Dismantling or Dismantling Sugar Plants. Registration No. 6113. Please vote. [[11:39:07]] For 242 The law is passed. Announcing the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship [[second reading]] Vitaly Ivanovich Majko. Is there a Vitaly Ivanovich? Please, from the Committee on Industrial Policy. Please, Peter Cibenko of the question - handling procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Vladimir Mikhailovich, has repeatedly returned to this issue. Over the past few years, there may not be such a problem that we have returned so many times in this room. I think we have absolutely no reason to look at this document today, and more so to make a positive decision about it. Dear colleagues! I urge once again that, here in this room, you and I defend the interests of Ukraine, not foreign representations that can win from this bill today. The faction strongly opposes the consideration of this document, I reiterate in the queue, after it has not been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u87	Peter Stepanovich is a document that goes to the second reading. Is that what you're talking about? This is the second reading we're looking at in the draft law. Please, Vitalia Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u88	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I'd like to warn the communists and everyone that you can't expect me to work abroad, not Ukraine, and not my address. And secondly, you need to know what happens to amber in Ukraine if I take you one day to the Plains region, Klosov, where my branch, the factory is, why I stand so far, you would realize that all the values that are in Ukraine today are being destroyed because there is no master at all. As long as they haven't addressed it, no one's paying attention to it. Now there's only one request, allowing the time-consuming business to get involved in what's being done today in the Plains region, some order to be. I'm telling you again, people die there. Not just that, people are dying! Nobody's here. It's the only way to find some sort of escape there, something from that gain. No matter what the master is, it's important that he be in the master's order and have profit in the state. That's why the committee supports this. And I stand up for it because I know every day what's going on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u89	No warning, no respectable colleagues? Did you take the warning? You won't? That is why I am voting on the proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill amending article 4 of the Business Act. Please vote. [[11:42:36]] For 257 Decision taken. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u90	But the law was voted as the law, in the second reading and in general as the law. Yes, dear colleagues, as we agreed today to consider the Supreme Council's draft decree on events on Khrestyk Street and Maidan Independence on October 15th. Please vote on the inclusion of the Supreme Council's ruling on events on the street of Khreshtick in the agenda. Please vote for inclusion. [[11:43:33]] For 185 The factions, please. Communists – 54, “Regions of Ukraine” – 100.34, National Party – 34, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 1, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Go, Ukraine!” – 6, Social Democratic Party – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 5. [[united]] Please, Zybenko, microphone. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u91	Thank you, the Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee for Retired and Disabled Veterans. Dear colleagues, you know, when I was preparing a draft ruling that, by including in the agenda that was voted today, I was talking about what was different tracts, assessing what was going on. Today's events and three different statements about the same events have once again confirmed that we have to come to a common denominator. And to do that, we need to listen to information from the authorities about what was actually going on. I mean, who wants to know, how did it really go without reference to a political power or another? He's supposed to support the inclusion in the agenda, especially since today we're only voting for inclusion in the agenda, and the consideration essentially of this bill, this draft decree is proposed for tomorrow, for the morning session. So I ask you very much, my fellow Members, I am prepared to include this moment in my report on the substance of this bill, and I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of this paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, it's about getting us involved, we're not yet discussing the decision, because we haven't included it in the agenda. I gave Cibenka, as the drafter of the bill, as the drafter of the bill, if we included, we would be discussing definitely I would give the floor. Please log in for 3 minutes on the inclusion of motives. Yes, please, Lechchenka, next is Nadrava.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs, of course, the events that took place in Kiev on Saturday have excited Ukrainian society. Why, really, this is a very different question, and people can't figure it out: what was it? Moreover, the authorities took part in these events. I mean, the law enforcement organs, which, well, in my opinion, were acting wrong. Therefore, it is imperative that we include this issue in order to consider in the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council cannot stand outside to consider tomorrow at our meeting so that we know for ourselves what was going on there and people to know that it was not distorted. So I'm asking everyone to support the inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u94	Please, next Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u95	Vasil Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! What happened on Saturday today is being discussed in every house, regardless of where people live, in the South, in the East, in the North, in the center of Ukraine, so that we cannot afford to give answers to the society, which was on Saturday, why it happened and who should be responsible for the fact that we did not get to mass slaughter in the first place. And that makes sense, I think, if we consider this issue on Wednesday. Nothing's going to happen to us, but we're going to answer to ourselves and to society, what's Saturday, what's most important is how to make sure it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u96	Please, Boris Bespali, Mikhailo Melniczuk is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u97	Boris Nepalij, Yuschenka block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Once upon a time, the great patriot and Prime Minister of the Russian Empire, Stolipin, said to Russian revolutionists, "Lord, you need a great shock, and we need a great Russia." I think nothing good about these great shocks ended neither for Russia nor for Ukraine. In addressing you, my dear fellows, I would like to say that you may need to exacerbate the crisis, destabilize the situation in Ukraine, transform the Supreme Council into the arena of the same events that we should have seen for your participation and for your initiative in Christianity. I think you need an atmosphere of oppression. I think the Ukrainian people need something completely different, and he's expecting the Supreme Council to do an effective and constructive, normal work that's being done here, and the law enforcement agencies are doing their job. So we ask not to vote for another scandal in the walls of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u98	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u99	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues, surely the faction voted for us to hear about the events that have taken place. We really need to evaluate Parliament's response to the situation in the country. What's more, our Ukrainian citizens were there. And I would like us to go back to the vote and look at this issue again, because there is a charge at the address of the law enforcement agencies that, by their status, should have ensured the safety of the country's citizens' christening. But this is already linked to the other side, so it is certain that something else could have happened without the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u100	Yes, dear colleagues, let's sum up what you've been saying. Everyone's right, but I don't think it's a big deal that we're going to do what we did in every conflict. And don't forget that today some people are demanding to listen, tomorrow, I'm not ruling out, there might be an entirely opposite side of the demand to listen to information. And remember the story that you and I never got past the facts, whether it's Mukachevo, whether it's the Donetsk event or some other, we were listening to information from law enforcement. We don't know what the information is going to be. Perhaps the information will be against the initiators of this decision, and we are already expressing our firm opinion and disagreement in advance. So please, let's support the inclusion. No, I'm still here. Mikhail Vasilovich, we'll talk about the inclusion in the agenda, and then we'll talk about the text. Please vote in favour of the 8286 agenda on events on the street of Krestletick and Majana Independence on October 15, 2005. Please vote. [[11:51:12]] For-182 The factions, please. Communists – 55, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 47, National Party – 39, “Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 1, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People’s Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 4, Social Democratic Party – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, People’s Movement of Ukraine – 0, NDP, Trudova Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 7. We voted twice, no decision taken. We'll move on. And then we'll probably do it this way. We agreed that at 12 o'clock we would have to go to say good-bye to John Fedorovich Kuras. So let's just get a little early and call it a 12-hour break for 35 minutes. Please listen to the announcement before the break announcement is announced. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I hereby declare the dissolution of the parliamentary faction of the People's Democratic Party and the political party "Trudova Ukraine", consisting of only 13 national deputies since September 22, 2005. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we must now move on to the consideration of a package of laws that relate to the development of an agri-industrial complex. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity is being announced for consideration, a new edition. Registration number 7567. The rapporteur is Minister of Economy Brezny Andriy Viktorovich. And Sergey Tereshuk will speak from the committee. So I'd like to ask you briefly on this point to provide information and reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Export of Customs to Livestock and Leather Raw materials. The bill envisages the establishment of a zero import duty rate for livestock from 1 January 2006 and a phase-out of export duties on leather raw materials. In particular, the establishment in 2006 of a 15 per cent rate of export duty on leather raw materials, with a further annual decrease of 1 per cent from 1 January 2007 to 10 per cent. The reduction in the rate of duty on leather will not have a significant impact on export volumes, nor will it have a negative impact on the coming into the State budget, since 99 percent of the exports of leather raw materials are made to the Republic of Moldova without payment of the export duty under the free trade agreement. The lower rate of duty will result in a change in the geographical structure of leather exports and in the direction of traditional buyers. In the first half of 2005, according to the State Department, 8.2 thousand cattle were exported from Ukraine. A ton of 30 million That's $8.1,000. Ton or 99 per cent of all exports of leather raw materials from Ukraine were delivered to the Republic of Moldova without payment of export duties under the Free Trade Agreement Only 83 tonnes of this product were exported from customs territory with a 30 percent export duty. In the current year, 410 thousand dollars were paid for export duties. However, it is estimated that 10 million dollars will be added. That's what I'm talking about. With regard to the establishment of a zero rate of export duty on livestock, it should be noted that the export duty was introduced in 1996 with the aim of limiting exports and increasing the number of livestock. At the same time, it must be noted that between 1996 and 2004, the cattle’s head fell from 17.5 million. up to 7.7 million Thus, not only have such restrictive measures not only achieved their goal but they have also deprived farmers of the incentive to grow large cattle. On August 1, 2005, compared with a similar date last year, all categories of cattle farming decreased by another 7 percent and accounted for 7 million. 410 thousand. Heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u103	Allow me to finish the argument, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u104	Thus, a restrictive measure, in the form of an export duty on livestock, proved its inefficiency and the government is proposing to cancel it. At the same time, the bill provides for the establishment of indicative prices for live livestock and leather raw materials exported from Ukraine, which will make it impossible to export this product outside customs territory at prices lower than world prices. Please support the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Export of Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u105	We're following a reduced procedure, dear colleagues. Since this is an important Law, then let us take three minutes to ask questions, and let us move away from traditional regulations. Please sign in. I think the main question is how we would be able to figure out how much our budget is going to be lost and what we're going to get in the relationship is these two figures, and I think they would be convincingly acquiescing us for making a decision, because there's a clear warning from the Science and Experimental Authority, but there's no answer. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter. I'd like to ask you, would you please tell me if the increase in livestock exports would not lead to cuts in the supply of meat to the population, because we have now had a huge, massive meat crisis? What are you coming out of, how much surplus do we have right now, for this second, meat? And do you think it can be that we need to gain market economy status at all costs, including the price of not being able to see our own Ukrainian meat? Instead, we will continue to receive the smuggled meat that was sold yesterday, only tonight returned from the Attire, you know, terrible things are happening. Contraband flows through Moldova, meat passes through Transnistria, and all of America’s crusts go through, and everything is thrown away, and the markets are abandoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u107	Questions. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u108	I'd like to answer that. The cost of domestic implementation of cattle in live weights is now, practically, at the level of world prices. I mean, exports go at a price of one and a half thousand dollars per tonne, if you're in the internal market of 5.6 or 6,000. So in this context, the elimination of the export duty will not contribute to the export dynamics of increasing mercury exports. Big cattle. On the other hand, even in existing legislation there is the possibility of exports without payment of export duties, i.e. a direct producer without an intermediary has the right to export without payment of export duties. Thus, the law exists, acting poorly, and plus what I've already said is that even in the presence of existing legislation, there was a huge pace of reduction. And this action, which was implemented in 1996, did not result in an increase in cattle production and market saturation. As a result, exports can contribute to the cultivation and demand of the internal market.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u109	Alexander Bondarczuk, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u110	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Honorable Rapporteur! When I hear your Cabinet of Ministers bills coming out of the World Trade Organization, I am increasingly convinced that, in general, the Government is expressing the interests of not Ukrainian producers, not Ukrainian workers, but of some transnational corporations. Well, let's take a look at what you're suggesting today, as far as I can tell. On the one hand, you're making this bill quite a hole in the budget. Or do we have so much money in the budget that today we can provide a normal salary to the budget? Second, this bill deprives you of our native meats, leather factories, silkworms, you deprive them of their raw materials -- skins, stimulates the export of raw materials, unprocessed products. And what losses will we suffer? What can you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u111	Dear People's Deputy! I'd like to add again that according to the 2004 report, the budget for the expert duty on exports of cheese was 11.7 thousand dollars, but there are, as a rule, 101 million dollars. I mean, in fact, today this restrictive measure has not contributed to the budget. So subtracting this limit will reverse the legal flows and, least of all, we're going to get not 30, but 15% of the total quantity that is going to be 20 thousand tonnes. And so it's going to be hundreds of millions of dollars and more. So I think that in this case, first of all, we're making a change that doesn't allow the budget to be filled. On the other hand, we're taking down those restrictions that we really, really, as you say, prevent us from getting to the end of the job after entering the world trade organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u112	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u113	Alexander Pecklusenko, Ukrainian Regina faction, Zaporozska oblast. Your Honor, you're on. Minister of Economy of what country? If Ukraine, you had to gather domestic producers: meat processors, leather workers, shoe factories. And ask, do you need such a law or not? You picked them up, did you ever get out of Kiev the last time you left? When will you learn to respect the Supreme Council? Anything that harms the domestic producer will never be supported in the walls of this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u114	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to tell you that today, actually, leather is exported in free trade, without restrictions. Moldova and I are now doing parallel work to set these limits. We are not prevented from setting export restrictions in the case of a shortage of raw materials in the internal market, so we understand your concern, we drive in the region, we know the situation, and we assure you that we are concerned about the interests of Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u116	Thank you, please sit down, Andry Viktorovich. I just want to say that maybe it's a sharp question, but it's essentially fair. We asked and agreed to make calculations, not words, but calculations. Unfortunately, he doesn't have any calculations. And that's how these bills are treated. Tell me, what does Ukraine win, and what does it lose? And then we're going to put it together. It must be spoken by the Ministry of Economics in the dry but in the language of statistics and figures. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. Please, from the committee, head of the committee Ivan Fedorovich Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting again, and more precisely for the third time, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs for Live Animals and Leather, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 7567. First of all, there was an extremely difficult discussion on the committee three times, and this is evident today in the Supreme Council Hall. Motivation is one of the main things that animal farming is in a pitiful state today, and in the memory of farmers 96-98, when cattle were exported, and today we have a dynamic compared to the 1990s, a threefold reduction in the number of headheads. Not to mention the productivity of this head and the situation in the meat market. It's also leather and light-industrial processing. Therefore, in dealing with these issues with great difficulty, it is clear from this point of view that this discussion might not be on one condition. If we choose waste from one direction to reduce the duty on agricultural products, which will definitely not affect the producers, but how it affects the consumer market for production, there are still a lot of questions. And also for easy industry. So given this situation, if we were to move towards a direction that was adopted by the committee and there was a one-time conversation in the Supreme Council of three million support for the production of animal production in the 2006 budget, then the issue would definitely be taken off. And I believe that such a bill can be adopted on the condition that its action begins since Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization with appropriate State support to the adopted legislative base. As a result, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u118	Thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a discussion, we need two 'yes', two 'against'. Who will “be in favor ”? Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine", you are invited to speak. Prepare Sergey Zizka. And invite the national deputies to the session room, as we will have to make responsible decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u119	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I want us to understand what we're trying to do. We want to get into the WTO at any cost, or we want to get the market economy status at any cost, or we want to influence the situation in the agricultural sector somehow, and we want to remember what the concept of food security is. There is such a concept as environmental safety and medical safety, especially in view of what is being done now with chicken flus from others, others, and others. Dear friends! I want us to think about it, not three times that change, and the head of the cattle has been reduced, no. The cattle’s head fell three and a half times, there were seven and 24.6 in 1990. The sheep 13 times, there were 8 million, now 653,000. The question is, What happens to the food security of the state if we make that decision? Let us take out our ecologically good meat. And let's get what we're being brought here: scary meat, after which only mutants will grow. I don't want my children to be mutants. That's the first one. The other one. I would like the government to offer solutions to the situation. I mean, let's go over some animal laws with the complex. I vote in favour of this law, only in a softer form, not in such a rigid form that it will be here immediately, starting on January 1, 2007, the rate of export duty for some will decrease by 1 percent annually, to 10 percent. I'm telling you again. We can make softer conditions, but let us make arrangements for the farmer. Let's give them the animals at the tax prices, let's give them the food that we can make today, let's give them at the tax prices, at stable prices and fuel. And then we're going to adopt this law. And of course, the adoption of this law will not give my state anything, and for my people it will not give me anything except the difficulties that we will have. We're going to bring an American bagel and everything instead of our quality product. So, dear friends, I will not vote in this form for this law. And I've been looking closely at all the comments that there are, very, very many questions. And I suggest we look at these issues in the complex as a matter of food security.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u120	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Sergey Žizko, the faction "Our Ukraine" has a word. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u121	Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Export duties on livestock and leather are thought to protect the internal market and support the domestic producer, the leather and meat industry. But this protection is not effective, for exporters find loopholes by working on tax schemes or through countries with free trade agreements. Its inefficiencies are confirmed by the dynamics of production in the leather industry, because even though it was introduced in the year 96 and the growth in the field started only in 2000, that is, at the same time as the overall recovery of the economy. And let's look at the truth in the eye, because much of the production of the skins of the factories is exported in the form of leather semi-manufacturers, not leather products. In addition, the quality of the skin gradually declines. And meat from Ukraine is exported mainly to Russia and, above all, ice cream. So essentially, it stimulates the production of low-processing products. And the removal of export duties on livestock will be an incentive for the growth of animal production, which is more strategically important. The outlook for the APC's development plans predicts that the increase in plant production will create the possibility of a third reduction in sown areas with a marked increase in crop production and feeding crops. This will allow you to create preconditions for the transfer of 8-10 million under pasture. hectares and ensure the intensive development of animal life. In time, Ukraine will fully satisfy its own needs in meat products and become their exporter. For us, the most promising market for animal production is the Muslim world, which, according to national traditions, imports of purely live meat. Since the mid-1990s, Ukraine has marked its presence in these markets, but the introduction of export duties has become a brake in this direction. Thus, the removal of the export duty on livestock should be seen not only as a requirement for Ukraine’s entry into WTO but also in the context of the prospects for further development of the agro-industrial complex. In view of this, I propose to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u122	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u123	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to discuss this bill with you on a few points and discuss them. First of all, today we're talking about a bill that affects our entry into SOT. This raises the question, and this is already the subject, and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin has spoken it. We agreed, in due course, that before we made such decisions, material should be provided. I want to remind you, unfortunately, that we have a whole scandal here, and not only within our walls, but also in the absence of what has already passed since the ruling Government accused us, the Supreme Council, that we do not want to vote in favour of drafts that we have not seen with you. Okay, wait, what are we talking about today? Today's situation is whether we have calculations, whether we have an understanding of what our manufacturer will win, or whether he loses what he wins, or loses our budget. I understand that Moldova and I are actually trading in free trade, but I understand that trade with Moldova is not a “world at the end of the tunnel” when we are talking about the external economic activities of our producer and, in general, our economy. Next moment. We are talking about the duty-free export of raw materials, in this case, of cattle and cattle. But here's the element of selectivity. And I would like to ask the Government today: why have we not made such a success, in due course, so that the producers of sunflowers can export dutylessly? We still have 16 percent left, so we have selectivity, on one subject we take off our taxes, and on the other we close. Although in all normal countries, and I will not say anything new here today, the question is, What is being done first is a thorough processing of the raw materials, and then the finished products are being exported to the outside world. Because only processed raw materials, at the finished level, are the most effective products that need to be sold on the external market. By selling raw materials, we are thus still a commodity supplement and, accordingly, our interests as States, as the national economy, are not taken into account in this matter. And the last. When we talk to you about what we need to do, or whether we need to allow duty-free export of large cattle and, accordingly, skins, we need to ask you a question: how does the world support not only livestock, but agriculture in States. It is supported by the hostess. And here, quite rightly, the profile committee said that without real domination, by opening up our markets and releasing our raw materials into the external market, we therefore question the existence of even twice as many dead animals as in general and any industry in our State. Therefore, when we discuss with you what we should do, we must first, in my opinion, reflect: and what will be of benefit to our State, our economy, our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u124	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin is invited to speak from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The orange government of capitalist ministers is introducing a bill for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is aimed at destroying the agro-industrial complex in Ukraine, which is almost almost existent. The essence of the bill. Today, a valid edition of the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity foresees a rate of export duty for a given type of goods of 27-75 per cent of its customs value. It is offered at zero rates of duty, as a percentage of the customs value, to export livestock at 15 percent of the customs value of the goods, to export the skins of cattle. Moreover, export duty rates will become effective as of 1 January 2006, and the export duty rate on goods will decrease by 1 per cent annually to 10 per cent from 1 January 2007. [[Export]] [[Export]] Thus, the skin will be skinned not only by cattle but also by peasants. What can this lead to? Setting a zero rate of duty on livestock may result in a sharp increase in export operations with the raw material. [[Export]] In view of the fact that the food market in Ukraine recently had a rather tense situation with meat products, an increase in its exports outside Ukraine could lead to serious disruptions in the supply of food and social tensions in society. And the second. The possible increase in the volume of livestock exports will lead to a deficit in this product in Ukraine, and thus to an increase in its price, which will negatively affect our so-called "domestic" producer, well, and, of course, the welfare of the population. How can such government action be evaluated? This government reminds me of that girl at County who's making a lot of excuses to attract a rich, profitable client. Can such a government be called “national”? Sure. On one condition, it is a government of national betrayal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! We do. One minute! We've finished the performances, but we have someone here who signed up. If they insist, one minute with motive. Eugene Gorenik, please. Then Michaela Melniczuk. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u127	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! The discussion of this bill, as well as the bill on “Criminal”, is an example of demagogy and evil on the part of some factions who are very loudly shouting that the village is dying, and in the case of “Criminals” they have done nothing to save this village. And here they're offering to share the skin of an unkilled bear and they're talking about some calculations. Well, what are the other calculations? The deputy minister said we're losing 12,000 dollars, but in the future, we're making up for it when we enter the S.O.T. by removing the hole through Moldova. Until we enter the WTO, we cannot negotiate with the Republic of Moldova on the elimination of this hole. I'm not surprised by the Communists, they're like a girl in the District standing in front of Russia, so they won't let us in. I'm surprised by other centrist factions that don't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u128	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u129	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear peasants! I would like you to call me at least one village in Ukraine, a peasant who exported his bull abroad. Don't you understand that a peasant won't do exports? What would it be like to do other parts that would buy the peasant's work for nothing and then export abroad, right? Do you think that we will always be with you to buy shoes of Italian production, etc., etc.? Do we not have an industry? Let's just think about it, isn't it about getting in or getting in? We've got to get into the U.S.A., the socialists are speaking for it, but, by looking at what price? It's not worth betraying your own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u130	Ivan the Hare? None. Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u131	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yehanurov, said that the Ministry of Economics works in principle: what can I do for you? This work continues. The same goes for today, I should say, and the Agrarian Policy Committee. On June 14th, a decision is made: overruled. July 4th, on the ground. And so on. So there is the Ministry of Agrarian Policy's conclusion that the establishment of an export duty that is now totally does not conflict with the norms and requirements of legislation for the entry into the World Trade Organization. So these arguments are all subtracted. So we don't have to vote for that. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in connection with the threat of avian influenza, introduced a bill prohibiting the temporary importation of bird meat. Please consider it urgently and consider it at the sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Regarding the chicken flu, today I have asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide comprehensive information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: what is being done, what is being planned in this regard, and what does the Cabinet of Ministers propose to do to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? When we get this information, I think then we'll be clear. Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u133	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I urge you to take a comprehensive approach to this bill. I think there's definitely no negative assessment of the bill, and there's something else in it, but I'm still inclined to think that maybe it can give more positive than negative. The animal industry has been destroyed in Ukraine. And the main question that we have to answer by adopting this bill is whether it will contribute to the development of animal production. If the tax goes down, the livestock prices go up. And if you build an appropriate export mechanism, you can say that agricultural profits are going to increase. And that's how we can contribute to the resurgence of animal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u134	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u135	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I think discussing duties on cow skin that we don't have left in Ukraine is a ridiculous subject at all, I think. Because I'd rather discuss the skins of those processing officials who have brought our Ukraine all, our beloved Family to such a state that we no longer have cows, and let their skins be processed, exported at all costs, because that's exactly what the problem is, because it's what brought it to that state. Thank you very much for your attention. And most importantly, don't forget to call your parents, it's very important, those who listen to me, it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u136	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I'd like you to come into the session room and join the National Deputies. Is there anything the Cabinet of Ministers can say? None. Please, the Cabinet of Ministers will now conclude the final word, please. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The government fully shares your concern and is ready to finalize the draft bill, taking into account your suggestions, taking it into account in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u137	A proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Exportation of Customs to Live Animals and Leather Commodity shall be put to the vote. [[new editor]] Registration number 7567. [[13:14:17]] For 114 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction, “Ukraine’s Regions” – Zeros, National Party – 3, “Ukraine” – 33, Block Timoshenko – 23, SPU – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 21, “Forward Ukraine!” – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, “One Ukraine” – 2, “Reforms and Orders” – 12, “Industry and Entrepreneurs Party” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, non-fractional – 6. A committee proposal. Ivan Fedorovich. Ivan Fedorovich, the committee's proposal what? A motion for a committee to re-read the draft law, registration number 7567, is put to the vote. [[13:15:18]] For the 180. The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain activities is being announced for consideration. [[concerning wholesale sugar trade]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Yukhnowsky. Philip Philipovich Budzigan will speak from the committee. Please, Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u138	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnowski, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. Registration number 7437. The draft law provides for the extension of article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity to the wholesale trade in sugar. The project is designed to implement the Ukrainian law on State regulation of the production and implementation of sugar, which defines the legal, economic and organizational principles of State policy on the production, export, import, wholesale and retail trade in sugar. Article 3 provides that the wholesale trade in sugar in Ukraine’s internal market is carried out by business entities with a special permit, a license. Today, the wholesale sugar trade is being carried out by a large number of sugar owners, sugar factories, retailers, natural persons, suppliers of material and technical resources, and other business entities that make it possible to resell a large portion of sugar outside the organized market. This situation, due to the lack of licensing, allows for the formulation of a civilized sugar market, the real assessment of its resources to ensure the internal needs of the state, the accounting of sugar transactions, the verification of the full payment of taxes and congregations. Furthermore, the problems that have arisen this year in the sugar market also confirm the introduction of such a measure. Organizing the wholesale trade in sugar will increase the availability of budgets at all levels, have a positive impact on the employment of the population, and on the food security of the state. Please support draft Law 7437. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u139	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u140	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment at its meeting on 11 October 05 reviewed the draft of the National Deputy of the Yukhnov Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity on the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar. Registration number 7437. With a view to stabilizing the internal market for sugar, the bill is intended to complement the list of types of economic activity that are subject to licensing under article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, wholesale trade in sugar. As they considered the bill on the committee, they came out of the following. First. Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of production and implementation of sugar states: “Another trade in sugar in the internal market of Ukraine is carried out by business entities with a special license. The number of licenses for wholesale sugar trade is unlimited. And the second. By our decree of the Supreme Council of 3 March 2005 on the parliamentary hearings on the Buriacocre complex of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers recommended that the Office of Ministers prepare and submit to the Supreme Council for review amendments to the Ukrainian Law on licensing in the area of the licensing of wholesale trade in sugar. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, feels that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. As a result, the committee decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u141	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need for us to discuss whether we can accept it as a basis and then onward.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u142	Is it? Please, we'll work. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin is invited to speak. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u143	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the existence of the Law on State Regulations for the Production and Implementation of Sugar and the Non-admission of Sugar here with you on July 8, 2005, did not prevent the past government from importing 250 grand of sugar along with livestock for the intervention needs of the government. A ton of sugar from Brazil. And no one has ever been responsible for this before, absolutely nothing. It was not said that these are harmful actions that undermine the State budget. No comparison was made that last year laws were passed where 115-118 euros per tonne of imported sugar were paid. Therefore, I believe that today’s law must be passed and adopted, but all laws must be enforced. What's the point if the government didn't comply with that law. I think this law will contribute to the country's food security, stop smuggling sugar into southern Ukraine, across western borders, across the eastern border from Belarus, when it's absolutely legal for us to have sugar, 95 percent sugar, and 5 percent cocoa. When will this be stopped? I'm talking to the government. I'm talking to law enforcement: don't you know that? Which, in effect, is smuggling sugar. Don't you know he's being treated like that? Therefore, I am sure that this Law should be adopted, but even its adoption will not ensure, to a full extent, the protection of Ukraine's national interests. Because in order to protect them, we need to love this country and we need to do everything possible to have a limited shade of sugar. And it's very, very big today. We need to think that not only do we need to make changes and license this trade but we need to predict how we can control it and who will control it. I do not rule out that under these extraordinary conditions, the right to control, including internal affairs, must be given. It's a system of state, we pay them salaries, not bad wages, and let's ask questions about how to control the implementation of laws that are in the state. Perhaps then the smuggling will be reduced, perhaps in another way both the tax service and the customs service and all the other services in the state will react. I am in favour of adopting this Law, and it can be accepted here in two readings, and there is no long discussion of it. But then the Law will require changes to others. I suggest we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u144	Vladimir Timofiovich Puzakov, Communist faction, followed by Vasil Nadrag. And invite the deputies to the session room, but you have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Licensing in the wholesale sugar trade for a long time was not included in the list of activities. Because of the lack of licensing, it is not possible to form a civilized sugar market, to estimate its resources to ensure the internal needs of the state, to calculate the operations for the implementation of sugar, and to check the full payment of taxes and congregations. The changes to article 9 are necessary, because we can see that the sugar industry is going through a difficult period, where one reason is the introduction of cane sugar this year, as well as the inconsistent, inconsistent work of the Yuschenk team. The villagers hoped that the President and his team would come back face to face, settle prices for sugar and raw materials, but instead they got a "hole," they say, from the bubble. It's very painful to speak, but it is, a branch on the verge of destruction. More than 40 percent of the areas designated for future sugar beet crops are uninhabited in the countryside. The situation in the agricultural market is getting worse as sugar accumulates, and in Ukraine about 800,000 tons are being squeezed into the market by the smuggling parties. And that's the sugar disease that the Communists warned about and the cures against. Unfortunately, the government isn't listening, perhaps he's interested in setting up a cross on this area, ignoring that beet-sugar production is a strategic priority of the national economy. Because in Soviet times, it was one of the economic pillars of the state and provided up to 13 percent of the country’s budget. The world’s leading sugar industry, more than 5 million, has become a major source of sugar. Ton, but it was one of the world's first six sugar exporters. Today, only 87 percent of the internal needs are met. Thus, licensing wholesale sugar in the internal market will allow for stability in the sugar market. As a result, it will increase budget revenues, and it will have a positive impact on the employment of the population in the food security of the state. But in such a way, we Communists will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u146	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Vladimir Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u147	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Speaking of sugar, you and I need to understand clearly that this is one of the most criminal agricultural products in Ukraine, which is amazing. And there are constant conflicts around him. Thus, in the Lugansk region no later than two weeks ago, two militiamen were killed because KamAZ and smuggled sugar just suddenly and cynically ran into their car. And today, when we talk about sugar, first of all, we should probably understand with you that in the market that we have in the country and in the neighbouring country, it is a fairly profitable profit, including criminal capital. Therefore, when it comes to what needs to be done, we can clearly say: with regard to the sugar market, we must streamline it, we must make it transparent for the State, for the supervisory authorities, and therefore less criminalized. Therefore, based on that logic, it would be useful to recall that order-making also requires public policy on the subject. I want to remind you of what happened this year about sugar. This year, you and I heard the Minister of Economy say that the transiting sugar remains in the internal market of Ukraine amount to 900,000 tons. At the same time, we have not literally forgotten this statement, as the same Government has offered us to import 150,000 tonnes of raw sugar into the country. So the question is, do we have any moving leftovers or do we have a deficit? And I think that the proposal of a colleague of the Lithuanian People's Party, who proposes to introduce licensing as a principle of systematizing work on the sugar market, is useful and necessary for us. Based on that logic, there is a need to support the bill in its first reading, as proposed by the author today. The only wish for the author to have us work out a mechanism for future second reading that does not affect the price of sugar for the consumer. That is to say, we must establish a mechanism by which the price of rent should not be increased, which is a mass product of mass consumption, and therefore we cannot allow licensing to affect its growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u148	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u149	Dear comrades, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. If you look at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority that this bill is proposed to complement the list of types of economic activity that are subject to licensing as defined in article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[the wholesale sugar trade]] And the message goes that it goes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of 3.03. 05 on the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings on the legislative provision for the development and improvement of the Ukrainian beet-sugar complex. Here, my colleague, by the faction of Omelyan Nikonovich, who spoke at these parliamentary hearings and addressed the Government, asked us that we should immediately adopt these bills in order not to allow a sugar-scart to be imported into Ukraine. And what happened? In March, when we were looking at Parliamentary hearings, the sugar cost 2.80 and then the price went up to 5 dollars. And there was no law in the hall. They did their job, put more than $150 million in their pockets, the government closed their eyes, and today we must adopt this Law. This is true of the Law on the Destruction of Sugar Plants. Which also means that Omelyan Nikonovich spoke, said: “You must accept this Law immediately.” It was only today that we accepted him in the second reading and in general when he was on the Committee for more than a year after his first reading. Yes, the factories were cut out. We have 24 factories left today. Six hundred and forty thousand tons of sugar per year are said to have reached 140,000 tons of sugar. I think the delay in these laws has helped bring sugar-sparing to Ukraine without a decision of the Supreme Council. And let's look at the problems that today are in our sugar industry. I've been to the Ryawsky factory twice. They tell me this factory can't be restored. Five years are given the same answers, and today we are adopting a law that prohibits the destruction of factories by 2008. This is an example of what politics in our country, which the Communists have said on many occasions. We will not uphold such a law, and I turn to it. Taking this opportunity, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the electorate of the Cherka region. This is the question of Pauline Ludmila Aleksyivne, who will be considered in our Hall on Thursday. They're asking me not to vote on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u150	Yes, dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue. No, no, wait, wait. Just a minute. One minute! We've got five people on board, so we're going to do it this way, it's going to be like we're going to vote for those who signed up, in a minute, and they're going to be able to speak. Jaroslav Suhi, please. Then Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u151	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of Ukraine. I would like to address those who may not have found the substance or positive social orientation of this bill. The point is that in the most criminal agricultural business -- sugar -- we're putting a screen on it. That's the first one. The other one. If it's about what it's like to license sugar, it's not true, because if we're actually going to talk about price distortions for agricultural and industrial production. And one more thing. You can think of the money we need now to raise the sugar industry in Ukraine, we have only 4,000 real bereaved kegs in Ukraine today. So let me remind you, in 1990, the Ternopil Combin Factory produced 4,000 complexes in one year. And that's all that's left in Ukraine. What we have to do next, to that slave work, is to vote with certainty for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u152	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u153	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear colleagues! Let us return to the ideology of this bill. We're talking about those who produce sugar that recycles it. Let's remember with you, if we're talking about licensing, who's the fence today. The uncle goes to market with a sack of sugar, that's a split, and if their holdings are tens of thousands in Ukraine, they left 20 to 30 tons of sugar to realize, in order to buy spare parts, oil, seeds. Tomorrow he'll be in line for the license, or we don't understand what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, and it's not fighting the phenomenon that's in Ukraine today. We need to fight, not the manufacturer, but the merchants of the peasant’s work, and then it will be an effective fight. The Socialists will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u154	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u155	John the Rabbit, factions of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! The wise say with good intentions the road is paved to hell. Today, if we are talking about licensing for sugar, we will kill completely what sugar beet is growing. You know that much of the price for sugar beet is paid with sugar. The license is in the sugar factory today, and if the uncle who gets the sugar can't just sell it anywhere like the other subjects. So this is a monopoly, this is a machine, this is a bureaucrat who wants to take this market under his control. If we want to put order here, we need complex changes, we need to talk about the price of sugar beet, we need to talk about the calculations of others. And that way, we're just going to dump agriculture, dump those people, the physical people who drive the beet into the wheel factories, we're going to talk to the militia, because then the militia will catch them for not having a license. This is a proposal that reinforces bureaucracy, not agriculture. We propose not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u156	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u157	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We all remember this summer when sugar prices rose sharply. And despite all the efforts of both the government and the law enforcement agencies, no name has been given who did it, and who puts in the pocket of that $150 or maybe more million. I'm not going to say that this proposal is already a panacea, and that we can stabilize sugar prices, but this is one of the steps that is necessary, but not enough to do. Without that, we will not be able to adhere to price policies in this strategic field. And in that regard, I'm surprised. Well, they protect workers, but prices and communists, and socialists want to blow up. “ Graduated oligarchs, ” recalls Lenin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u158	Vladimir Cherniak, please. None. Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u159	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I'm trying in this room not only to listen, but also to hear the arguments of one side or the other. Now today I'm told about some fairy tales that don't translate the cost of the license into the person who buys this sugar. Dearly beloved, if that were the case, we could really solve this problem. But for 15 years I have never been able to see an envelope that would take the cost of getting a license and many other things on itself, and it definitely translates them into a buyer. That is, this will necessarily reflect on the price of the product. And the price of the product is a consumer, it's a person, it's a pensioner, it's a veteran, it's a disabled person, it's a Ukrainian citizen. The faction will not uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. The closing word of Oleg Yukhnowsky, then I would like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, with the adoption of this bill, we will not solve all the problems in the beet sugar complex in the sugar industry. But at the same time, with the adoption of the draft law, we will at least take the first step towards organizing a normal, civilized sugar market. It is not that he somehow restricts individuals. Unfortunately, we do have a situation where there are so many people, today they get a natural payment for sugar. And this is a disgraceful phenomenon, unfortunately, in agriculture. This is not to say that it somehow restricts its own producers of agricultural products or sugar factories, or implementations. It's about putting the basic order in the sugar market. What's yet to happen in the market, and we've survived this year, in order to understand that this market should finally have an elementary order, my dear fellows! After all, you remember when the minister declared. And my colleague Vasil Ivanovich, 900 grand, has already spoken. the leftovers. In doing so, the government makes a decision about 150,000 a week later. Import! Well, could it be in a civilized state, your esteemed colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u162	Please, the position of the government. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is asking to support this bill because today we have talked a lot about the problems that are in the sugar industry, but in order to provide an elementary order with the balances of the use of sugar, the coming, the wholesale trade, we need to have it accounted for, otherwise we're going to be bringing sugar again without any clear data on how much sugar there is. It's not going to have any effect on this sugar that factories produce and give to manufacturers, but it's going to go gradually -- civilised trade, processed trade, and the license will be set, absolutely could be a symbolic price for a license. It is not about the proceeds of the license, but it is about making the arrangements for the implementation of the sugar so that there is objective information to make an objective decision. We ask you to support this proposal, and this will be the first step in starting a resuscitation of the sugar industry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, taking into account the points made, I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[concerning wholesale sugar trade]] Registration number 6437. Please vote. [[13:41:41]] For 124. The decision is not taken. Mikhail Vasilovich, don't shout so loud, because it turns out your minister of agricultural policy against peasants, because he insists on adopting this Law. The factions, please. Communist faction – 0, “Ukraine” – 1, National Party – 35, “Ukraine” – 30, Block Timoshenko – 9, SPU – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, “Pred Ukraine!” – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, “Ukraine” – 4, “Reforms and Order” – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 12, “O” – 11. The decision is not taken, what is the committee's proposal? There is no proposal, so the bill is rejected. I didn't call your last name. It doesn't have to be extraordinary. And there, and here we have to catch up. Please, calm down. Please, I'm not saying anything, I'm just saying the position of the Ministry. I have said nothing to you personally, and I have deep respect for you. The draft Law on Occupational and Interprofessional Associations in the Agrofood Sector is being published for consideration. Registration number 5702. What are you asking, what line? Don't be ridiculous, please. I didn't name your last name. Please calm down. I didn't call the faction socialists, I didn't call it, pick up the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u164	Please show me under the Rules where you use the right of replica. I beg you, Mikhail Vasilovich, you are a tolerant man. You don't have to! Michael, as long as you need, you're on. I didn't say anything! I said the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. You're going to say so. All of it. So what did you call the faction? The point is, according to the rules, if the name of the national MP, we've already gone like this. Then, please, take advantage. I have announced the question, please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please come on, Oleg Ivanovich, on the basis of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnowski, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, is proposing a draft Ukrainian Act on professional and interprofessional associations in the agro food field. The project is aimed at creating professional and interprofessional associations, economic entities that carry out their activities in the agro food field to protect common economic interests and income parity. Describes a clear configuration of the relationship between the manufacturer, the maker, the processor, the transporter, and the trader in moving the product to the buyer. It takes into account quite specific relationships that are not found in other areas of the economy, but only in the agrofood complex. What is especially important? The draft law creates legislative conditions for the organization of the most defenceless manufacturers, especially, private peasant farms, professional associations. I will notice that this sector produces up to 90 percent of animal production, vegetables, fruits, potatoes. They are finding it increasingly difficult to resist the structured, powerful, reprocessing and commercial enterprises that have concentrated production in the process of privatization, bringing together professional organizations in the field of corporate interests. In fact, we want to establish equality in relationships: manufacturer, maker, processor, transporter, seller. The first step is to promote the creation of full professional organizations in one particular type of production. For example, the pooling of grain producers, vegetables, or dairy producers. It's a pattern of forms that work in processing. The next step, the casting of a full association of manufacturers to a trade union that is concerned with the problems of the mono-product market. Within the framework of a trade union, during the discussion, work is being done between professional agreements, which involve a number of economic upheavals. First of all, in terms of price policy, production coordination, depending on demand and supply, the introduction of a product quality control procedure, the promotion of sales, which greatly facilitates the State’s participation in the resolution of issues. With a view to coordinating the participation of professional, interprofessional, and agrarian policies, the bill provides for the creation of a Higher Agricultural Council. Inter-professional organizations in various forms and modifications exist in virtually all countries of the European Union. The adoption of the draft law will contribute to the building of civil society in our country, the setting up of a civilized dialogue between power and business, which is now more relevant than ever. The Ukrainian Act on Professional and Inter-Professional Associations in the Agro-food Sector was developed with the participation of experts from the Ministry of Agriculture Policy, the Academy of Agricultural Sciences, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, branch associations, the National Deputies. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, the Scientific and Experimental Administrations, are proposing to support this project in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u166	Thank you. Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. It's a committee at the same time. Jaroslav Suhi will speak after Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u167	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I really asked what the committee would say, because we're going through a shorter procedure, and a shorter procedure, if it doesn't involve a question, then other questions arise. In fact, the bill that was now proposed by the national deputy to Yukhnovsky on professional and inter-professional associations in the agro food sphere has the right to exist, let us put it this way, first. The other one. It has already been reworked by the National Deputy Yukhnovsky since he was introduced a year ago on 25.06.2004, but in view of what has been given to the expert management, he has now revised the bill, but also in a redesigned way, taking into account its positive features, what is revealed is the function of two forms of association, professional associations, which are created and act on manufacturing and territorial signs and have the status of local, district, republican, professional associations, which are formed with the aim of forming a public policy on the development of the sector, representing and protecting the interests of their members on the market and inter-professional associations that are divided into national, regional and inter-regional. There is a contradiction in this Law, the draft Law, which I believe is why the Scientific and Experimental Authority has made a whole bunch of observations about 20 separate articles of the Law. And I think we need to reconcile this bill with the Code of Commerce with a number of articles: this is also article 55, article 120 of the Code of Lords. We need to get a comprehensible apparatus into other legislation. And in general, I think we can agree with the scientific and expert management's view that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, certainly taking into account all the comments that will be made by the subject. If this bill helps a specific union, a specific union in the agro-industrial sphere, at least half a percent, I will be very happy to vote for it. To be honest, I don’t know if he will help. Because we have so many
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u168	Jaroslav Suhi. I can't see. Alexander Masenko. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u169	Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, TV sets, voters. Well, in my opinion, this bill provides for the coordination of production and implementation of agricultural products. At first glance, the intention is normal. But to the extent that this is real in our nation’s condition, there is a great deal of doubt. This bill is a process of patching holes in a bag of problems in the APC that have been caused by those who are trying to fix them and patch these holes. I'm surprised all the time, but I just can't calm down when they're passing bills and going out to the rostrum and they're saving the village with the support of the laws that we now have in Ukraine regarding the Agro-industry complex, and they're doing everything they can to keep the agriculture in such a disgraceful position. And now they come out and look like heroes of the nation, heroes of Ukraine, because they recommend such good drafts. And we had a beautiful system of government procurement of agriculture. He made an agricultural producer, he knew at what prices the state would buy and there were no problems. Who destroyed it? Most of those who have destroyed this system are now sitting in this session room. And I'm telling you again, and I'm sorry, and it's strange to hear when they're such cowards in the village. Reformers have destroyed this system, and now we have a lot of problems. But we all realize that without State support, there are no professional or interprofessional associations, associations that will not solve the existing problems in the agribusiness complex. What about the state? And the state of agriculture is looking at us as ex-premier to an ex-secretary of the RNBO. After such a loud promise to the government, peasants still cannot sell wheat more than 350 dollars per tonne, and no association here can help. We're all going to Europe. Thus, Europe has borrowed much from the former Soviet Union. There's no country plan in England that we've destroyed, but in England, the Ministry of Economics is bringing quotas to every agricultural producer and buying hard-boiled produce. Here's England, here's the plan. And we destroyed everything, and we didn't have enough brains. Or not us, but those who are trying to patch holes right now. So it's... it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u170	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction. Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u171	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The Socialist Party’s faction will support this bill, which aims to bring together agribusiness operators. We know that the purpose of these alliances is to reconcile, protect and represent the interests of peasants, including in government bodies. Of course, by voting on the bill, we will somehow open up the possibility of creating such interprofessional alliances in the field of the agribusiness complex, and this will certainly provide opportunities for the protection of peasants. I've expressed my position on the Socialist faction. We will support this bill. And now I'd like to make an ethical statement without touching my colleagues. Dear friends, there is no doubt that someone who has worked in the country for more than 30 years understands what a village is, what an optical trade is, is fragmented, understands everything. My colleague introduced the bill and he had the aim of supporting, not compromising, let's say, the farmer's agricultural product. But there are others, Your Honor. We didn't get the people's deputies, the answer to how much the license is going to cost, who's going to get into it. And I don't understand how licensing can affect the price. That guy, he's got 50,000 tons of sugar for sale, and he bought the license, he's gonna implement the sugar like that. [[Optic]] How convenient for him, because he's in the market. And we can't influence it by licensing. What do you say you don't get a license? What are some reasons not to give the owner 50,000 or 5,000 tons of sugar? None. But you, Your Honor, should know, no matter what the Ministry of the APC has supported and so forth, the faction has its position. We've discussed every bill today, we're coming along. Then we don't have an answer for what this peasant wins, we can't support these bills. And I would like, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, to treat you with respect as Head of the Supreme Council, but often we have in the Hall, we will speak, norm, when they speak, that they may interrupt, correct or comment on his speech. I respect you, thank you, and I want people's deputies to be respected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u172	Thank you. I take your criticism. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I don't think anyone's gonna respect it anymore. Please, Your Honor, let's hear what the ministry has to say about this. Igor Šurma, for reasons, please, you were written here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u173	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] SDPU(o) believes that the idea of the bill as a whole deserves support, since agricultural products do not have the right level of representation and interest in the subjects of sufficiently structured segments of the agro-food market, such as processing or service services and trade. As a result, there is a price imbalance that results in a complex financial situation for farmers. This bill should be seen as one of the solutions to the problems of the unequal exchange between agrarian and other sectors of the economy. And, no doubt, this bill deserves to be accepted only in the first reading and in preparation to listen to that series of comments of government, as well as representatives of various factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u174	Please, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u175	The Ministry of Agrarian Politics is asking, honourable MPs, to support in the first reading, because we're talking about establishing some basic order in price distortions between manufacturers, processors and traders. This is exactly the European principles of the market economy, where the manufacturer, the processor and the implementer work together to divide the revenue that will be generated in the end result. There should be less government action, there should be market mechanisms that would allow for the ability to work together. Today we say we have 22,000. enterprises that have thousands of hectares of land. We have $40,000. farmers, we have 6.5 million. private manufacturers who work in the gardens. They can be integrated into professional associations in order to obtain and enter the European market from the realization of products, with the efficiency of production, and the distribution of profits. I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-18-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, this is the first Deputy Minister of Agriculture Policy Dimczak Ivan Mikitovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make a decision now. I ask you to vote there, Your Honor. Let's vote. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law on professional, interprofessional, agro - food union is put to the vote. Registration number 5702. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[14:00:51]] For 211 Who's to go back to the draft law? Registration number 5702. Please vote. Go back to the study. [[14:01:25]] For 221 Dear colleagues, perhaps this is how we will proceed. Since an important bill is will and desire, we will now announce a recess, hold consultations, and then vote on the law after the break. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
