ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the “Council” system. [[10:02:11]] There were 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. Morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Excuse me, fellow officers. There were 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. At the opening ceremony of the 8th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the 4th meeting was attended by: members of the government headed by the first Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoli Kirilovich Kinakh, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Vasil Timofiovich Malarenko, Procurator-General of Ukraine, Svoslav Mikhalovich Piskun, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mikola Fedosiyovich Selovon, Head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Dmitry Mikitovic Pritika, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Alexander Mikhailovich Pasinuk, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Vladimir Semenovich Stelmah, Head of the Rakunk House of the Ukraine, Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko, Plenikova Nacional of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Ukraine. .Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich, Prosecutor General of Ukraine Svetoslav Mihajlovich Piscun, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine Alexeiyyovich Kostuyev, Head of the State Television and Radio Committee Ivan Sergiyovich Čiž, Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the District, Kiev, Sebastopol City Heads. [[already said]] Representatives of the diplomatic corps accredited in Ukraine, the public, and the media are also present. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the next 8th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call announced openly. [[The Anthem of Ukraine]] Dear National Deputies! Natural disasters have recently occurred in the United States with significant casualties, as well as a series of disasters, the cost of which is also human life. Please honor the memory of the victims and express our solidarity and our desire to help countries and nations to cope. Please sit down. On July 8th and 13th 2005, the Central Electoral Commission recognized the elected and registered on the basis of the votership of the political bloc of Viktor Yuszczenko “Our Ukraine” and Filindash Evgen Vasilovich in a multi-mandatory national constituency by the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Cibulko Volodymir Mikolaiovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u3	Congratulations, dear fellows. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u5	Yes, let's welcome you, dear fellows. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform of the membership of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s People’s Party’s Deputies on the part of the Ukrainian MP, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 1st, 80 years of age were completed by an outstanding Ukrainian scientist, a national politician, our colleague Igor Rafailovich Yuhnowski. By order of the President of Ukraine for a significant personal contribution to the national renewal and construction of an independent Ukrainian state, a long-standing fruitful public and political activity, the important scientific achievements of Igor Rafailovich have been attributed the name Hero of Ukraine. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] Yes, the distinguished national deputies, today also the birthday of our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ivanovich Kostinyuk. Let's welcome him on his birthday. We wish him every success.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the floor for the speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u7	Honorable national MPs, honourable members of the government, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council, with the opening of the eighth session in Ukraine, will actually start a new political season, which will end in the March 2006 elections. This will be the most responsible stage in our modern history and in the work of the Supreme Council. In turn, it must, first of all, complete its rise as soon as possible in positions owned by the higher representative body of the people. Demonstrate daily the ability to maintain a constructive dialogue with the President and the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of principles, first and foremost, to address the problems of public measure, to support the interests of the Ukrainian people uncompromisingly. The Supreme Council is primarily responsible for representing the people and society, and then the authorities. It's different. It should ensure that state scenarios are implemented, and if necessary and produce them, by making it impossible for the country to impose any other plans on the outside, or certain parties, groups and clans, which in a number of cases may be the same. Predictability, predictability and positive results, not doctrine, populism and convulsion, are what Ukraine needs. An essential prerequisite for this is an objective assessment of what is happening to us. Thus, individual positive growths are slow, but they grow, and belief in the ability and power to implement the promises are preserved. At the same time, we need to stop telling ourselves, at least to ourselves, lies, to give up replacing real politics with massive propaganda that resembles attacks on Ukraine. Stop manipulating statistics, misinformation the public, whatever. What is happening in Ukraine can be included in the formula if so much is said of yesterday’s ominous past, which is about to add a bright future that we so unanimously assure today. In other words, it seems that new things are being done, and in most cases it comes out “in Kuchma”. And the reality is that Ukraine is greatly weakened by objective and subjective factors, even in comparison with the difficult past year. The characteristics of this: political instability and, in most cases, the generation of divisions and centres of events, confrontations and conflicts, economic stagnation threatening to turn into an economic crisis. There is no apparent breakthrough in foreign policy, despite good perspectives, not a clear moral-psychological climate in society. Clearly, the Supreme Council bears its share of responsibility, as well as its responsibility for the fact that the country, as soon as possible and with the slightest loss, has suffered a weakness, has undergone a massive transformation with tangible positive results, strengthened the social dimension of economic policy-making. To that end, we need to focus on such key tasks. First. Identify and identify a clear concept, a national development strategy, decisively abandon politics on the basis of schemes, jumping off the subject, playing karst promises, especially in elections. Society is ready and needs serious talk, discussion, first and foremost on the standard of living for the safety of its citizens. It is particularly important to withstand such a line in the work on the 2006 budget, as well as in timely and adequate response to the situation in energy, agrarian and monetary, export-import and other areas that are now a priority issue of national security. The other one. To overcome the crisis of governance, to take full control of the situation, to focus on the internal affairs of the country, to implement in politics what is appropriate to the social mood, to focus on the policy of possibilities, and to take a firm place trying to redistribute property in the interests of clans and oligarchs. Individually and prominently, there is a need to speak another way of speaking about the efforts of the transmonopolization of the media. The fact is that the deligarchization of the country, which we've talked about a lot, may be about the emergence of new families at the expense of others, and in the end again at the expense of people. We need to give people the chance to take the country's fate into their own hands. Ukraine is to become a state of honest people. Third. To give up trying to rotate our actions mainly into an external format in order to enjoy and declare our democracy, instead of creating the necessary civilizational foundations in the middle of the country, the excitement of exhibiting a friendly attitude towards Ukraine must be in line with our national interests. We need to establish and maintain a pragmaticly friendly relationship with the centres of power and influence, especially the United States and the European Union, as well as with the neighbouring countries. It is important to realize that the formalization and cooling of relations with Russia does not add weight to Ukraine. Just as a confirmation of our conduct does not always mean being close to one another. And also, trying to join the exporters of democracy. From this point of view, the need for active interparliamentary relations. Where it is temporaryly difficult to find a common language of politics, parliamentarians should speak more. Four. To build politics on the basis of reconciliation, understanding, and compromise. In this connection, it is worth noting that in many cases we understand compromise as weakness, as another strategic height that is gained in order to reintroduce a strategic offensive against a rival. Although I think it's time for everyone to understand that any roadblock divides every street into two dead ends. Fifth. To increase the attention of the Supreme Council to human resources policy and staff work, taking into account the position of the Head of State on the need for a serious staff audit. It seems that we have not strayed far from the Middle Ages in this regard. If the winners had previously received, as prizes, territories and populations, they now had the right to govern both territories, spheres, and people. The ability to shout out a slogan at the right time should not serve as a basis for a position or position. And one more thing. You shouldn't have taken a position without party membership before, I mean, a proper position. It is now increasingly suggested to the landlords that they have no future without “legitation”. We need to be serious about all of this, as well as the quality of the frame and the efficiency of their work. The Ukrainian political elite should represent the interests of the Ukrainian people, not a conglomerate of interests, nor should they resemble immature fruits. The Scriptures contain the words “Do not serve the Lord with your hands”. By rephrasing them, let's say you can't serve Ukraine with your hands. In general, dear colleagues, we need to come up with a broad social dialogue about what is happening in Ukraine, what needs to be done to make Ukraine grow up to stop the widening resistance to divisions at different levels, and by various signs to establish peace. And it turns out that whatever people say about power, it thinks about people worse. Our job is to prevent the separation of the state from the people. I think it would be helpful for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to propose and hold a round table or a series of round tables with the participation of the same representatives of countries and international organizations that have acted as mediators in the resolution of the political crisis. And bring him to the first anniversary of the presidential election, and discuss how the agreements that have been reached have been implemented and what we should all do next. Instead of enticing society and people into new realities, a permanent social dialogue should be put into practice. Dear National Deputies! Both the former and the present authorities want to help the Supreme Council better organize its work. This can and should be welcomed. Had it not been seen at that time, there is now an insurmountable desire to exercise external authority by a higher representative body of the people. Such care is unacceptable. I would like to remind you that in the entire civilized world to which we want it, it is the parliamentary majority who form the government, not the other way around. In principle, if the insistence continues, the question could be put to the vote: Does the Supreme Council today support the proposal to form a majority? That is, in principle, to put a question to the vote. But this will be seen as a sort of vote of confidence. I'll tell you more. The question of creating the majority and raising the barrier is, I think, and what comes out of the expert reviews, the evaluation of scientists and politicians, two mutually exclusive problems that are not of interest to people. So let's do better work by consulting and aligning positions, not looking for excuses for storms, including through exchange of statements. Going to parliamentary, therefore, social, only when positions are agreed upon. Otherwise, the proposed innovations will be postponed to better times. That's enough manipulation. They don't give anything except to lower the authority of the whole country, except to lower the authority of the country. This is an honest position, at least, an honest position. And let's stand on it. And that's better than hating friendship. We will still have enough difficulties, both in view of the election campaign and in view of the need to make key decisions. Moreover, the parliamentary elections, according to everything, will be held with a view to the next presidential campaign. What are they going to do? They're already moving. Such Ukrainian realities. I believe that the Supreme Council should do its utmost to ensure that the pre-election campaign and the 2006 elections are fair and transparent. The monitoring function should be taken over by the Conciliation Board. It is equally important to ensure the constructive legislative work of Parliament, thus restoring to it the high level of trust that it deservedly gained in November-December 2004. To balance the political and legislative functions, to raise them to the right level, to demonstrate in practice a civilized relationship with the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, mutually responsible and understandable to people, I see as a highway line of conduct of the Supreme Council today and tomorrow, and I see nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. You know that the calendar of the eighth session and the manner in which it is presented to us are adopted in the previous session. According to the calendar plan for this week's session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is working in plenary mode. So let us turn to the issues that have been identified today. We need to approve the draft agenda for the day session. Yesterday the Conciliation Council considered this issue and recommended it to the Supreme Council, a draft agenda for the eighth session for adoption. Please log in with the procedure for three minutes, please. Yes, please, Mikhailo Kosov. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision and then take a little break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u9	Mikhailo Kosov faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this order of the day of the eighth session, we all received literally just a few minutes before the beginning. Let's do this: we're going to take this decision as a basis, but by looking at the questions that I've been preparing, the drafts of my laws. I can't see, at least, two projects that are very important to me. And that's why I would still like to be able to get a little bit more familiar with this project, and then, no doubt, the people's deputies, like me, will have additions, for example, to my project 3756: about making changes and additions to the Ukrainian Charity Act and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u10	Sergey Chelnokov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u11	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u12	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u13	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to consider that this year is special to the people of Ukraine, to the world community, because we only celebrated the 60th anniversary of World War II, and in May we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. And the sacrament is that today the draft list of issues to be considered during the eighth session includes the issue of the rehabilitation of the UN — the UPA and German manuals in the Soviet Union, which served the Germans. The faction of Communists therefore insists that the following projects be excluded from the agenda of the eighth session: 2050-5, 2040, 2040-1, 2040-2, 4205, 2058-5, 2395, 4456, 5317, 7543, 3589 and 7255. We insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u14	Gennady Samofal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u15	Please give the floor to the deputy Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u16	Landik's microphone. Dear colleagues, they've ruled it out. Please turn on the microphone. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u17	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Hello! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I understand that we are now, as they say, according to information. But we would still like to include, and yesterday, four additional questions in the agenda: the draft law on amendments and additions to certain legislative acts, the registration number 77, from 05.07.2005; the draft law on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on responsibility for spreading false or unreliable information, the registration number 7279, 01.04.2005, and the number 4387, from 18.12.2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u18	Yes. Thank you. I want to say to my last speech by my colleague Lan Dick, they're accounted for, they're already given too late, we've been prescribing them, they're already in circulation, they're accounted for. Yes. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft agenda for the session was distributed at the end of the last session and those proposals that were taken into account, then additional proposals came forward, and they were taken into account. We have to have a document, then we won't be able to accept it. Those questions that raise objections are raised in an additional list of issues that call for denial of factions. All right, everybody, pay attention! We have every reason to put it on. Counted! Counted! Your proposals are taken into account! They weren't counted because the circulation was in the paper. Counted!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u19	Come to the Master of the Apparatus, everything is taken into account. I'm telling you, it's counted. Therefore, dear colleagues, we have every reason to put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the order of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call it embraces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u20	I say, "Come on, it's all on, I've already told you." Yeah, I know. The rabbit could not give it up for reproduction, since the circulation had already taken place. Your ruling is taken into account. Do you understand me or not? Dear colleagues! It's all taken into account, except for the discussion issues that were raised by the faction leaders, we put them on a separate list. If there's any pressure, we'll vote them separately. If there is an insistence, we are now voting for a major document that is agreed upon. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u21	I said, Peter Mikolaiovich, that the questions that the faction leaders have raised that are controversial, we have removed them, we vote only for those that do not raise objections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u22	Well, there it is, it's in the list. I'm voting on the approval of the draft Supreme Council decision on the agenda for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, registration number 8080, with the additions we talked about. Please vote. [[10:30:08]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! We discussed the draft decision at the Conciliation Council yesterday and agreed that today we would accept it: not allowing the closure of sociocultural objects in rural areas. Please write this down for 3 minutes. Five? Please 5, no questions. Microphone, please. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think it's our decision, whatever we call it, to prevent the closure of socio-cultural objects or to preserve these objects. It's not mandatory for the government to execute, so let's think about it, maybe we'll make this a law, and then the law will be implemented as much as possible, but the law will be protected, and we can then put the prosecutor's office on notice, and demand, because otherwise just so that in the form of a decision when we get the document out, you know, it's more of an internal one and a call for it. I'd like to think about it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u24	Thank you. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u25	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The question is very, very relevant. During the summer, the meeting with our voters, the study of the national education situation, we all argue that the country has policies for destruction, on the one hand, education, basic education, and on the other hand, we should consider that in 1990, 800,000 first-class students went to the first-class class, and this year only 400. In 14 years, the number of schoolchildren doubled. Only in the district of Jítomir, Kuchma closed 25 schools, and Yushchenko closed 40 schools. That's why we, the Communist faction, insist on adopting the law, not the decision, because the government, when it considers budget issues, will not implement this decision, because it will also come out of the financing of education in general. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we propose that this be like a draft law and let's include changes to the education law that we're banning the closing of schools today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u26	Paul Sulkovski, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u27	I beg you to give Jaroslav Mikhailovich Sukhima.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u28	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! I want to point out to you that the issue that we are going to consider, and our faction will definitely support this draft decision, is an integral part of the overall trend of incompetent, dilettarian national governance and the first severe social consequences that we are now dealing with. Of course, this is a decision to be made, but I would like to point out that there have been perfectly sound proposals from distinguished colleagues Karmazin and Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka that we have the opportunity to do so, in the power of our session, not to take a decision, but at least as a law in the first reading, if possible from the point of view of the Rules, because we have to take concrete measures to prevent further destruction of infrastructure in the countryside.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u30	Katerina Fomenko, “The People’s Party” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We need to take this decision today and maybe draft a law on this, because we need to remind the government once again that local budgets are not even provided for the wages. the 2005 Wages Foundation. And that's exactly what this is about today is mass closing of schools, kindergartens, reduction of regular budget workers. Therefore, this decree will require once again the Cabinet of Ministers to provide a percentage of transfers to the payroll fund of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u32	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u33	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, such a decision should be made, but I support those national deputies who express their support for the adoption of the law. We have to look at the budget. Whether we take this decision or not, I want to tell you this: the facility is closed, not because the authorities want it that way, but because there is no one to work there. At 0.5 bets, 100 bets a month, no culture director, no library manager, and no other institutions will work. That is why we need to approach this issue in a comprehensive way. The formation of the faction will be supported. But we still insist that we take a closer look at this issue of socio-cultural objects that are in the population areas of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, it's about why we need to make a decision. Because without the knowledge of the Ministry of Education and Science, the minister can confirm that nearly 70 schools were closed before the school year. Schools prepared by the parents ’ forces But we need now to make a warning to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and at the same time to write down the third paragraph: to entrust the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Cultural Affairs within a week's time to submit a bill on this subject so that the Supreme Council can accept it. And the thing is, fellow colleagues, once again, I want to say that these schools have started work, and I know this from the example of the Zitomir region, but they've been banned from publishing textbooks and banned funding, and there's nothing to feed children through it. So we also need to support the President of Ukraine, who made a clear statement to the local leaders so as not to close any schools. Right, Stanislav Mikolaiovich? Please, Nikolaynko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u35	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, our citizens. I warmly welcome all the deputies with their employment and would like to thank you for considering this very topical issue. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have considered this issue 19 with the participation of the Prime Minister on August 19th. Then, with each district, the governors, the deputy governors, the district directors, were personally interviewed. And actually today, there are about 50 schools. Fifty, not 70. There were 70 planned, but as a result of the actions taken, about 50 schools, mainly primary schools and first-level schools, the second-level accreditation is the initiative of local self-government authorities to stop them. [[It's about eight-year-olds.]] In particular, it's not 40 in the Gitomirsk region, but 24, well, and then we have the Chernigiv region about 15, somewhere, 14 schools. I wish. In principle, such a decision would not hurt, and I would support it. The only thing I'd like us to write down is not just the budget committee and the committee on science and education, but, of course, the Cabinet of Ministers, because it's about 12 million dollars by the end of the year to fund these schools. They need to be found. It's only for these three months. And another thing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is that the closing of schools should never take place without the consent of the community. But I was, for example, in the Lugansk region, where two schools are closed down -- there are no children. We had 407,000 children this year, 407,000 children. Last year it was 430 years ago, five years ago -- almost 600,000. That's why it's a demographic issue. Both the president and the government are set up by the Ministry of Education to ensure that schools are never closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u36	Thank you. What is more, we have the slogan “Let us love”. We'll make it happen. Manchulenko, we're going to vote. They didn't call it a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u37	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, agrees with this question. The only thing we're worried about is when we're developing and adopting legislation, it needs financial and economic justification for budget expenditure, and the law itself can only be activated after the next fiscal year. It's not from 2006, it's from 2007. So there's a question here, maybe it's better to take a parliamentary decision with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to work out all the issues so that the next year's budget will provide for expenditure so that it won't be delayed until next year. And in the second paragraph, write not only about the restoration of the listed objects but also about the restoration of their activities. Because an object can be rebuilt, a large castle hanged there, and it will stand beautiful, restored, and not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u38	Paul Sulkowski, please, the microphone, and we will now determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you as the Head of the Supreme Council and let you know personally in the Zitomir region, but it's all over Ukraine, the establishments are closing down, the cost of salary cuts. Today, schools are forced, especially in the Plains region of medical personnel, to write applications for additional leave that they cannot pay their wages. The government is manipulating today that they're adding wages to civil servants and so on, we don't mind, but now to look at this situation, it's paying the budgeters individual salaries, especially to government officials and the President and heads of district administrations, who are even refusing to pay the school fees, the fate of the children. increase their wages. Shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It is suggested that we take into account the views expressed by the national MPs on the need for a legislative solution to this problem, but now we accept the decision, take into account our colleague Manchulenka's proposal in the second paragraph to record the restoration of the activities of these objects, add the third item to which we will entrust the Committees of Education and Culture with the questions of the budget for the week to draft and reconcile a bill in the government, and we have previously agreed with the Budget Committee that in adopting the changes to the budget that we will make these changes, we will take into account the costs of these, we will find the funds together with the government and thus resolve this situation. I therefore put to the vote a motion for a decision to add in the second paragraph the words “renewal of the activities of the listed objects” and the third paragraph to entrust the Committee on Education and Science, a culture on budgetary issues to process and submit to the Supreme Council a harmonized bill, consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers, a bill on this issue. I'm betting on a vote to adopt a draft ruling as a whole as a ruling. [[Registration number 8077]] Please vote. [[10:44:03]] For 288 It's been decided. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine – 45, Communists – 54, Ukrainian regions – 45, National Party – 39, Block Timoshenko – 16, SPI – 19, Ukrainian People’s Party – 9, Only Ukraine – 16, SDPU(O) – 0, Democratic Ukraine – 19, Party of industrialists and entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 10, Democratic Initiatives – 3, Postfraction - 13. Dear colleagues! We need to make a number of decisions on the issues that we discussed earlier. Just a minute. Microphone, please turn it on. National deputy of Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u41	Thank you very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! When you put the agenda on the vote, the order of the day session, you said that if the MPs insist, you would put a list of additional questions to the vote. That the noble national MPs, that I want to draw your attention, that very principled, substantial, painful questions for our society are now taken up, that is, they are listed in additional questions. First of all, it's about creating a permanent commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of Ukrainian independence fighters, the victims of Nazi persecution, the victims, the use of national minority languages and so on. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we should now put this list of additional questions regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the 8th session for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, reverend Rephat Chubarov, a list of additional issues proposed for the agenda of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fourth call, they are included. Because they were offered, they're involved. Not just a list of issues that are not supported, with different motives, separate political groups, and factions. So if you insist, we can put them to the vote now. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? According to established practice, at the suggestion of a number of parliamentary groups and factions, we have separately presented a list of issues on which there is no support from individual parliamentary groups and factions for their inclusion in the agenda of the session. These are bills relating to the recognition by the warring party of the U.N.A.A., these are bills for the rehabilitation of victims of political repression, for the determination of the status of Ukrainians forcibly displaced from Poland to Ukraine. Regarding amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression and a number of others. They're on a separate sheet. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote with the Supreme Council being defined by a vote. For reasons of three minutes, please. Please sign up. Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u43	Eugene Hoornik, “Our Ukraine” faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Among the bills included in this list are my bill regarding the recognition of the Ukrainian rebel army. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u44	Michael Loboda is referring the right to speak to Peter Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm talking to most people who understand what processes are going on today. And the initiators of these bills I would recommend, please go to the Nuremberg process first and find the answer to those questions and problems that are recognized by the textbooks who fought on the German side, just the representatives of these formations, including the SS-Galicin division, and the Nakhtigal division. So it's about copying history, and today it's about recognizing those who killed our Soviet people during the Great Homeland War, those who are patriots of the people of Ukraine. Communists strongly condemn such practices. And I urge you, in the name of your parents and mothers, in the name of those whose bones are still in the wells, who have gone to the territory of these areas just to heal and teach, to help become an enlightened nation of Ukraine, I offer no support, and I urge you not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u46	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u47	Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye The faction of the political party “Ukraine’s Region”. Dear colleagues, it is clear that every day of our session’s work will be politicized. It is quite clear that the questions that will be put to the discussion will often be of a political nature. But the procedure proposed for voting for the list of issues may further politicize the hall. If there's a denial. Of course, we will vote. It is quite clear that no one will vote for the day’s round of questions. But I'm warning you, this is going to make things worse again in our session room. As for specific bills that are being tabled, they are not introduced for the first year and not for the first time. And the support of most of the session halls is not found. They don't find that because they don't find the support of society, most of our Ukrainian society. Because these are extremely acute and painful problems that need first consideration by scientists, social scientists, and then in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u48	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u49	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! I want to talk to you. To date, it is proposed to vote in favour of bills that have not been understood in the Conciliation Council. So the question is, do we have to take what's knowingly broken down to the hall because it won't support the hall? If we put this on the agenda now and vote against it, then it will go on for long and well. Thus, there may be a point to do so first at the level of factions and groups, to find consensus, and then to proceed with such proposals to the hall. And then this vote will be effective. Otherwise, I don't think there's gonna be any point. Now we're going to beat each other up and we're not going to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. There are many who would like to speak on this matter. We exchanged thoughts, but positions were clear. Let each faction be determined by voting. I put to the vote: the inclusion in the agenda of a day list of issues that are not supported by individual MPs and factions. Please make up your mind. We've just had a discussion, dear fellows! What do you want from me? [[10:52:16]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 70, Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 2, People’s Party – 1, Block Timoshenko – 8, SPU – 0, Ukrainian National Party – 23, “Only Ukraine” – 2, SDPU(o), “Democratic Ukraine”, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, “Democratic Initiatives” – Zero, “Afterfractional” – 4. A draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine entitled “To Strengthen the Fight against Drug Addiction in Ukraine” is being announced for consideration. Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, we have a draft of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine entitled “To Strengthen the Fight against Drug Addiction in Ukraine”. The project takes into account the proposals and comments made by the National Deputies during the discussions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukrainian Government Day on increasing the fight against drug abuse and the government's proposal to improve this work. I would like to make another suggestion on the recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the first paragraph of paragraph two of the draft rulings need to be deleted and approved, such as those that do not apply to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and delete paragraph eight on page three. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood approved the draft decree and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a whole. Please support the Supreme Council's draft regulation on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the strengthening of the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u52	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, please sit down. You'll have to write it down for three minutes. Please, Carmazine. Prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders Dear National Deputies! I think the proposal that is now being put forward, the draft ruling by the Loboda People's Deputy, is perfectly normal. The only thing I'm not sure is that the government will execute those lines when we write: recommend to the government by November 1st to complete the development and approval of the Ukrainian state policy on alcohol and drugs, and also on securing the funding of the program, because it has to be provided for in particular in the State Budget laws. Now, in the State Budget Act, we're going to instruct the budget committee and ask the government to fund these things by next year. This should be done here right now. I'd like to add these things to the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u55	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u56	Here's Simonek's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u57	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction claims that the situation in the state is dangerous. It is virtually catastrophic! The language goes that it's no longer a medical problem, whether it's a drug problem or a social problem, and it's a national problem, based on what is currently being supported and developed at a higher state level in Ukraine, and it's becoming one of those sources of revenue accumulation based on what our people are killing. The drug business has touched the lives of children today, and so the faction of Communists insists that it be written “to see the work of the Cabinet of Ministers unsatisfied” because it really touches not only the law enforcement agencies, but today it touches the organization of jobs, the level of wages, medical services and much more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u58	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u59	I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Taras Cnerovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this project, but we claim that in such ways it is impossible to overcome drug abuse in principle. It's a completely broad complex problem and a social situation in a state that has recently deteriorated in reality, and the fact that people have lost some hope for new jobs, that they can have a secure future, that leads to an increase in this socially harmful phenomenon. And it's a separate moment. The loss of hope, the loss of the ideals that the new government has given to the Ukrainian people, from which much of the people believed that relations would change in the country, that there would be no continuation of the Bushmism and that today it is implementing the same methods, and that in Ukraine there is a growing sense of hopelessness. That is why we insist that in spite of this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the conversation is over, we will be determined. Perhaps we should first vote on the proposal to accept it as a basis. I'm betting on the vote because there were proposals to make some changes. So let's vote for the basis, and then let's go after the changes. Vote. A draft decision shall be voted on as the basis. [[10:58:55]] For 252 Order based on acceptance. In the course of communication, there were suggestions. The Communist faction suggests that the first item should be changed. Here we have the project “information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on increasing the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine to take note”, a faction of Communists suggests that it is unsatisfactory. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:59:38]] For-129 No decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 56, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 40, People’s Party – 5, Block Timoshenko – 5, Socialist Party – 1, Ukrainian People’s Party – 0, Ukraine – 2, Social Democrats – 0, Democratic Ukraine – 8, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, Democratic Initiatives – 1, Postfraction – 3. [[United]] Thus, the proposal that was made is not supported. Then I put to the vote for adoption as a whole as a decree in that editorial that proposed to us on behalf of the committee, Mikhailo Vasilovich Loboda. Please vote. [[11:00:41]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Thus, we may not spend our days in government unless we make decisions. Then the conversation we have in the form of Government Day means nothing, because we have spoken and no specific tasks have been given to the Cabinet of Ministers. I think the Cabinet of Ministers will be very pleased with our work. After all, I am a respected colleague. There are a number of items here that need to be committed to the Cabinet of Ministers so that our conversation on Government Day does not remain a mere conversation. You'll have to write it down for three minutes. Please, Widowedenko Hennaday Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u62	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, for giving me your word. From the very beginning today, I asked for a word in order of conduct, asking for reasons of vote. I'm the only national MP who voted against today's order of our session. Why did we throw out the very important laws on victims of political repression? I don't know how each of you will look into the eyes of your constituents. We have made a very serious political mistake not only today, but also by voting against the inclusion of daily bills involving victims of political repression and deported Ukrainians. Remember that today’s action by the Supreme Council will be highly critical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u63	Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Catherine Semenovni Samojlik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u65	Please, it's Catherine Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u66	Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we all know that today in our country we will not find any villages where we would have no drug addiction. And, unfortunately, she has a young face today. Young people, half a million young drug addicts, and today we are ashamed to give an unsatisfying assessment to those who have to do everything they can to eradicate this frightening phenomenon in our country. Well, what future can we be talking about, if we're even here, in the session room, we encourage and freeze this drug situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u67	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u68	Thank you. I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u69	Please, Sulkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, if we really look at how the vote is going on, we can look at it and see that the government factions, they don't need the fate of the children today, the fate of the young. I support Mrs. Samuelk's previous speech. They need their own interests – the business, the clan, which conduct “explorations”. They do not belong to the people of Ukraine, nor to the lives of the everyday Ukrainian people. They need to share their own bark, and the people and children of Ukraine do not need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u71	Yes, dear fellows, I remind you once again. This is a decision after considering the matter on Government Day. By the way, we're not dealing for the first time with similar things that we're discussing, let's actually assume that we're canceling this tradition. We have traditionally heard the matter of Government Day, and then we vote in the next plenary sessions. Perhaps we should make arrangements and ask the committees to prepare the following days for the government, that immediately after consideration of the matter, as well as after consideration of each issue, a corresponding document should be adopted. So, of course, what we said back in June has been forgotten accordingly and it is always harder for us to vote for decisions on a matter. But once again, I stress that such a determination is necessary because otherwise there will be no outcome to the consideration of the matter in the Supreme Council. So now, dear fellows, there was still one proposal, and I'm going to put it to a vote, not to be satisfactory, but to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue as insufficient. Let us vote in favour of such a soft formulation. For lack of work by the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with drug problems. Please be supportive. [[11:07:19]] For 216 The factions. “Our Ukraine” - 7. Communists are 56. “Ukraine” – 46. People's Party is 27. Block Timoshenko - 0. The Socialists are 23. Ukrainian People's Party - 6. “The only Ukraine” – 12. Social Democrats is 0. Democratic Ukraine – 18. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 12. Democratic Initiatives — 1. Postfaction is 8. Sign up now, please. Five minutes. The rest of the Games.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u72	Igor Ostrash, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! Of course, the issue of drug abuse is extremely acute in our society. I fully agree with many of the reports that, unfortunately, today is largely a problem of the youth environment and, of course, it is also a serious problem that has to do with the rural population, the rural youth. Because drug addiction has already begun to move from large cities to rural areas. And, of course, we have to do everything we can to get as much attention as possible to these problems and seriously increase the funding of those bodies responsible for combating drug abuse. With regard to the government’s work in this area, it must be understood that, in fact, a government that works for only a few months cannot, of course, radically change the situation. So we have to give them a chance to work seriously, but do everything we can to make sure that it depends on the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to look seriously at the budget issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u73	Cibenko, please, Peter, get ready for Fomenko Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The Communist faction of Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that Ukraine has recently begun to mark questionable leadership in this particular area of activity. Indeed, it is a questionable priority. And by appreciating the work of the government, by assessing the work of all the authorities, we mean what it should be. The assessment of the work of the authorities should be an incentive to work to eradicate this evil. Therefore, Adam Ivanovich, there is such a suggestion: putting a document together with an assessment insufficiently, if not supported, the document as a whole is not sufficient. And I think that the decision will be taken by the Supreme Council, and it is necessary, indeed, because the outcome of the Government Day is to make a decision that will motivate work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u75	Catherine Fomenco is a faction of the People's Party, followed by Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u76	Fomenko, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, we have just held parliamentary hearings on this matter. And I called these numbers and these facts: the average age of a drug addict is twenty-one years. I'm addressing you, dear colleagues. My proposal was to set up a state programme and set up serious state funds in the State Budget of Ukraine so that we could have a serious discussion on combating this problem of our country. We got the draft budget and I want to say that no one paid attention to our proposal and everything was translated into local budgets. Once again, local budgets do not have the funds for their own programs for self - control programs to deal with this state problem. So what I'm saying is that we need to support the draft decision with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u77	Gregory Omelchenko, BUT faction. Next Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u78	Omelchenko Grigory. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw you to the point where we, by one stroke, have voted not to be included in the agenda. And every bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u79	Turn off the microphone. Gregory Omelanovic, please speak with us about the decision that we are discussing. That's the question we've already discussed. Please, there's an Omelchenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u80	Adam Ivanovich, it's you in your family who can shut someone's mouth, you know? Not the National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u81	Turn off the microphone. Gregory Omelanovic, I'm not blocking your mouth, I'm sorry, and I'm asking you to speak on the subject. I have that right by the book. If the reporter does not speak on the subject, the Head may turn off the microphone. We're now discussing, I'm reminding you, a draft Supreme Council decision on information from the Ukrainian Minister's Office on strengthening the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine. From this point of view, please have a minute. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u82	I would like to stress once again that the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to express his point of view, which he considers necessary and please do not block my mouth. And what we've put in the agenda of the investigation committee's report on the murder of George Gongadze is something we need to think about. And I'm asking you to put this matter to a separate vote. Now for the draft decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers approved recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers to strengthen prevention of drug abuse. And the vote that was proposed, to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers as unsatisfactory, we have already voted. It does not need to be put on for the third time or the fifth time. And to vote in favour of this draft decision without the ratings that are being proposed. And put to the vote is a report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the circumstances of the murder of George Gongadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u83	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u84	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! It feels like we're fine in the state. Well, they voted, they didn't vote, they didn't support "unsatisfactory". They no longer supported “not enough”. So, we think that's enough, we're fine in the state? What's good? I would not want to touch those factions that did not vote in favour of this decree. But I think the problem of fighting drugs is a serious problem in the country. And I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, once again to put to the vote to support this decision -- to get the government to take the job in the end. We can see that there is much success in law enforcement. We already know that. But it's not enough. That is why this problem is and must be voted in favour of it in order to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I remind you again, we've had three exchanges since the procedure. I remind you once again, dear colleagues. On June 14, we held parliamentary hearings. The Cabinet of Ministers has been briefed on one of the most painful issues not only for our society, but for the world community. But what hurts us is in our country. And I think if you and I are determined to admit that we are not doing enough work, we will not be completely wrong about the truth. Because really, it's not enough, it's not just a job, it's not just a cabinet of ministers, it's not enough work for all the authorities, including the Supreme Council, it's not enough on this issue. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers is not enough. Please vote. [[11:15:55]] For 205 Not accepted. The offer didn't go away. I'm betting, my fellow officers, here must have been absolutely right, especially Yuri Carmazin, who was proposing that we commit, or ask, to the Cabinet of Ministers by first November. June 14th to November 1st was real. Let's probably, if we take it now in September, let's write, "by first December," terms, so to speak, increase it, because we're not June 14. We'll take it. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote with a proposal to make changes to the terms, as a whole, a draft decision that you and I voted on as a basis. Please vote. [[11:17:01]] For 175 Not accepted. From the Assadchev procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, it seems to me that when a record is made, a representative of the faction has a guaranteed right to speak. I understand that such a right of a particular MP can be denied, but so that the faction cannot come out, well, sorry, there has not been a “democracy” yet in the Supreme Council. [[in quotes]] The Ukrainian People's Party, which has a faction, can't actually make a statement on any question, because you give three minutes, and we write down six or seven. I think we have the right to speak from the faction. And I'm asking you on this issue to give us a minute to speak to the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, because we have a very different attitude to this decision. If we vote that way, we will never overcome drug abuse in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u87	Thank you. Well, you didn't vote, so you expressed your view of this decision by not voting. Unfortunately, that is the norm of the Rules. Let's change it, it's, by the way, yesterday at the Conciliation Council talked about changing the order of writing on the speech, I'm asking the committee, please work on this decision, prepare a project that will get the support of the hall. The question is: The Children’s Homelessness Decision in Ukraine and how to overcome this phenomenon, registration number 5757, and the outcome of the hearings on June 14. Reported the chairman of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Samylik Catherine Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! At the end of the last session, you and I discussed the issue of childlessness and how to overcome them. And you remember that this issue raised great concern and interest in the future of our nation, the plight of orphans, and children deprived of parental care. We have identified and recognized in the decision that the main causes of this problem are the spread of society, the poverty of most of it, the sharp decline in income and the standard of living of the population, unemployment, the low efficiency of education institutions, law enforcement agencies in the prevention of child molestation, and the absence of an active mechanism in many cases. A large number of proposals for the draft decision were also made. All of us have considered them carefully, and almost all of us have taken into account when making the decision. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that language on Government Day, and this testifies to the very difficult life today, was that without solving the very urgent problems of society, i.e. the problems of population employment, the sufficient level of wages of our citizens, and from pension insurance, the creation of normal living conditions, spirituality, morality, without solving all these issues, it is simply impossible to talk about overcoming childlessness and carelessness, both now and in the future. And that's why all of this is in the determination. We're thinking of drawing attention to the next moment. The Chief Legal Authority noted that since the Housing Code already regulates the right of children to housing, it is appropriate to remove from the text the decree on the introduction of legislative proposals on the right to housing and, accordingly, the imposition of arrests. Members of our committee, considering that the President of Ukraine vetoed this code, consider it still necessary to highlight this point in our decision. At the same time, we agree with the Jurugovernment’s observation that the recommendations of the Supreme Council are given solely on the basis of parliamentary hearings and in this regard the deletion of the second chapter of the decree, as well as the deletion of recommendations on equal responsibility for the avoidance of children, since this is already settled in the Family Code, we have made changes with you after the session. That's what I'm saying for the transcript. I would like to ask you to take this decision, and the main thing is that we propose to announce 2006 in Ukraine the Year of Child Protection, and I think this decision should.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u89	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the committee's decision on the proposals made on behalf of the committee. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a decree on childlessness in Ukraine and ways to overcome this phenomenon. Registration number 7757. Please vote. [[11:22:47]] For 312 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, two factions – the faction of “Our Ukraine” and the BUT faction – have called for a recess to be held. During the talks with the break initiators, we agreed that they would not announce the break, give a talk, and take a break. Please, who's it going to be? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u90	Vladimir Yavorowski of the “Our Ukraine” faction, from BUT, and I think from the People's Party. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] From the People's Party. Ukrainian National Party. Dear colleagues! First, two quotes. The first, the show, it sounds like, "There are two fools: some don't want to change their position, and others can't." And another quote, it seems, Jeji Leca, he said, “I encourage some leaders to look back from time to time, does anyone else follow them? ” I'm leading this to whether it would be possible to imagine a civilized parliament of a nation representing a people who had experienced such terrible cataclysms in the 20th century, such terrible repressions, and this Parliament is refusing to simply vote for these bills, it's refusing to consider them at all. Society — What Is Happening to Us? What are we afraid of? Are we afraid of our story? We listened to a 14 - year - old song that sang the same thing. Dear Peter Simonenko, is this what we're talking about? There are numerous laws: juvenile political prisoners, Ukrainian repressors, including UPA soldiers. Why are we afraid to consider this? I can't understand the People's Party. Your leader claims he's in favor of admitting UPA troops. [[B in m in s a l in]] Lithuania, I mean. A representative of the People's Party is speaking here, and it turns out that “it is not necessary to consider this issue”. So let's get out of here. These are the painful wounds of our nation, let's deal with them honestly. And the second. Vladimir Mikhailovich, unless this is a matter for discussion. Three people gave their word. There's three of us. There's two lefts and someone else. But this is a question that needs to be discussed deeply, pedanically, convinced of each other, to give arguments. Adam Ivanovich, we insist, and we will not vote, and we will not take part in the work if we do not return to the matter, discuss it, or include it in the agenda. If we vote, it's everyone's business, but we have to discuss it. I don’t know, we took a sin on ourselves today, listened to a few words that repeat the same thing. Life has moved forward. I get thousands of letters on this program from all over Ukraine, Russian-speaking people write. Admit these people, they've got a handful left. Because of this, I urge Parliament to show our morality, our conscience, let's take a look at these issues. Once again, juvenile prisoners, repressives are all our people. I am confident that Parliament will rise to this height. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's have some more consultations. You realize that 110 votes is clearly not enough to ask questions. There is a draft regulation on parliamentary hearings on the prospects for developing the fuel and energy complex of Ukraine. Decision - making on the outcome of the hearings held on June 15, 2005. He reports from the Bronnikov Committee, Vladimir Kostinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, at the end of the last session of 15 June, we held hearings on the prospects for the development of the national fuel and energy complex until 2030. Unfortunately, much has changed during this period. If we were focused on industrial development in the discussion of this programme. Because there is now a disruption with the main energy supplier, that we do not know as yet what gas prices will be, what price dynamics for petroleum products, we believe that the energy strategy must be adjusted in the light of industry's projected development. Energy must represent Ukraine's economic and industrial growth prospects. Energy needs to know what financial, material and industrial resources it can rely on in the country. In this regard, the Committee is setting up a working group to consult colleagues from the State Duma of the Russian Federation in order to understand the root causes of the dramatic change in prices prospects for major energy carriers. The Committee is also beginning to draft a decree establishing a parliamentary commission to analyse the root causes of the threat to the energy crisis. In consultation with Minpalivenergo, we agreed that in October we would come up with a new amended draft decision on Ukraine's energy strategy. In this regard, we propose to withdraw the proposed order to date, to be considered in October 2005. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u93	Yes, thank you. That's how we need to support the committee. Vladimir Kostinović, and the second draft of the ruling will be? Option. Yes. So the committee is now proposing that this draft decision not be considered. They are preparing a new version because part of what is already written in this decree has even been done. So I'm going to go back to the point where we have to make decisions pretty quickly, even though you can see it there. Yes, because the situation is changing quite quickly. Let's go to the section “Other Readings”. There is a bill on the complex reconstruction of out-of-date housing quarters. Registration number 7483. Second reading. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, liaison with the Desert Tenko Valerij Pavlovich. There is no Valery Pavlovich. Who from the committee? No committee representatives? It's delayed. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on bringing in compliance with the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code]] Registration number 6017. [[second reading]] Head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Onopenko Vasil Vasilovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that on September 1st, the new Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice came into effect. Without waiting for it to take effect, we have prepared an appropriate bill, which is presented for your consideration in the second reading. The point is that we have to make some legislative changes recognized by the new Civil Procedure Code. In particular, the new Civil Procedural Code of Article 249 provides that the declaration of a natural person dead after the taking of the legal force of the decision shall be sent to the notary at the site of the discovery of the inheritance, to take action to protect the inheritance property. And the "Pro Notaryate" Act does not foresee such a position, so we propose to make these corresponding changes. Also, the International Commercial Arbitration Act, when it comes to the enforcement of decisions by foreign courts, in accordance with the new Civil Procedure Code of Article 392, provides that these decisions shall be taken by local courts, and the Act on International Commercial Arbitration states that these matters shall be dealt with by district courts or appeals courts. It is necessary to make adjustments to this codex. It also needs to change the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. The new Civil Procedure Code provided for the procedural institution of command. That is, the court can deal with the absence of parties when it comes to the simple issue of alimony and so forth, and issue an executive order. In order for these decisions to be implemented, it is necessary to amend the Act on Executive Conduct. It also needs to be complemented by the Civil Code of Ukraine in relation to the relevant provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. In other words, the bill that you have under consideration is being considered in a second reading, it has received a few comments, particularly mine, Oneichuka, and they are all taken into account. So the committee's proposal is to accept only, in the second reading, Adam Ivanovich and, honourable colleagues, in chapter 3, that this law takes effect at the same time as the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine. We did it in July, and that's what we wrote. But since the Civil Procedure Code is already in force, you probably have to write down the general formula: this law takes effect from the day of publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u95	You can, but maybe Vasil Vasilovich, it doesn't, because it's already working. Right? Well, it'll probably be more legal as you suggest. Dear colleagues, all the proposals that are made in this bill are taken into account. So we have every reason to take into account the proposal of the closing positions, we have a point of entry into force, we have a point of entry, we have a point of entry in the editorial form in which Vasil Vasilovich proposed that it is in effect from the time of publication. Is there no objection? That's why I'm voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on bringing in compliance with the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code]] [[Registration number 6017]] Please vote. [[11:35:02]] For 236 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we have a reporter on this subject, he was in the Head, they say, on the interview. That's why we're listening to the Bill on the Comprehensive Reconstruction of the Out-of-date Housing Fund, Desert Tenko Valery Pavlovich, please, 7483 registration. [[second reading]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u96	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. On June 17, this year, the Supreme Council reviewed the bill in its first reading and adopted it as a basis. The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, on the following day after the meeting of the Supreme Council, addressed all committees and factions and groups with requests, and it was important to look at this difficult document and make comments and suggestions to it. Within a short period of time, the national deputies, members of the committee, carefully processed all proposals for the draft Law and prepared it for second reading. The 17 articles of the bill received 233 suggestions. On average, there are almost 13 observations. All the suggestions came up on July 4, this year, included in the table of amendments. Of these, 94 observations are taken into account in full, 54 are taken into account in part, 9 is rejected, 76 are rejected. In their proposals, the National Deputies reflected almost the observation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority to the bill. The most problematic were and are now three blocks of issues: the basis and order of eviction of residents — the first question, the second — changes to the URSR Housing Code and other legal acts in the final positions. The right to exercise the proposed simplification of land rights, building permits and construction arrangements. Thus, it is principled that the bill should leave the strengthening articles behind, and that changes in the applicable rules of the basic laws, including the Housing Code, should be passed outside the bill and carried out separately. In view of the introduction of the Final Orders, they have removed positions that change the standards of law in force. The revised provisions of article 4 regarding design without the right to milling and construction without a project that conflicts with valid local legislation. Forced eviction is reduced and interpreted editorially. In particular, evictions will be carried out solely on the basis of a court’s decision. Too bad it's taking time to adopt the Housing Codex. There all the standards are clearly stated and the mechanism will work without pressure. Tomorrow at the committee meeting, we're going to consider the Housing Codex and I'm hoping for your support, which is completely upsetting all the questions. That's the law. Taking into account the acuteity of housing problems and the numerous priorities of social problems in Ukraine, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council a bill to adopt a comprehensive reconstruction of the old housing sector number 7483 on second reading and in general. Now, I'm going to add that it will not affect the order of displacement of citizens of other countries, but basically this law is going to improve and build housing only in Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are considering proposals made by national deputies that are not included. I'm talking to my colleagues, which of the national deputies made proposals and they're not counted, but they insist on national MPs? Then raise your hands, please, who insists. And I'm asking you, you're going to call your edit number, which page, so we can get to it quickly. Please, Vasil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u98	135th Amendment. It concerns that if more than 50 per cent of the owners or tenants of housing decide on joint decisions, including the purchase of housing, I suggested that we should give all the participants the right to participate in the process. We can only allow a person to be thrown out of the house because someone who does not live in this house can make their own decisions without his participation. Well, this is insane. We're taking away people's housing. Someone else decides for him. That can't be right. It is therefore not clear why this amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u99	Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u100	The answer is very simple. According to the Constitution, the eviction of a citizen from a residential area can only be done on his own accord. We're proposing this amendment, it's irreversible, it's not one of those amendments, it's just a few, 75 percent of the owners, if it's okay, then the investor who works in this area is putting the materials in court -- and the court is making the final decision. It's a court order only.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u101	I think, my fellow colleagues, that our colleague Vasil Nadraga is absolutely right, that this is a violation of human constitutional rights. In fact, the majority may accept that they should move out, but they have thus taken away his residence. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 135 People's Deputies of Nadrag. Please vote. [[11:41:17]] For-170. Correction not supported. Any other changes? Please, Dear Mike. The factions? Please. Excuse me, Vasil Ivanovich. The factions. “Our Ukraine” – 8, Communists – 50, “Regions of Ukraine” – 32, People's Party – 31, Block Timoshenko – 9, Socialists – 4, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, Party “One Ukraine” – 4, Social Democrats – 0, “Democratic Ukraine” – 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, “Deminicatives” – 3, “Afterfractional” – 5. Please, dearie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u102	Respected colleagues, 194 amendments, refer to 127 articles which regulate how local authorities decide who will be the developer investor. So my amendment suggested that “if there is more than one application to participate in the implementation of the reconstruction project, the local self-government body decides to hold the competition.” That is, the essence of the problem: if there are at least two applications, the local authority must compete between those who wish to carry out the construction. And it's fair, it's public, it's a fight against corruption, it's an opportunity, let's say, without any shadowy options, to decide on who gets the order, on what terms, and, accordingly, in public discussion of the decision to leave, I repeat, on any corruption scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u103	So, what's the readout, Vasil Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u104	That's 194, that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u105	194. Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u106	It is not yet known whether there is corruption or not. What's better? It's hard to say whether there's more corruption or not. That's the first one. The article goes on to say that, in conducting competitions involving construction investors to implement reconstruction projects, the local self-government takes decisions, and so on. [[Here's the order in terms of all]] This is defined by a completely new law, which applies to the arch of their home activities. I think we should leave it as it is in the law today. A letter is being prepared for consideration, a city council is considering, then a project is being made, and once the project is ready, there may be a few suggestions, it's being considered on the city council, and it approves who is going to build or rebuild the microregion. I think it's an inappropriate amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u107	Is Vasil Ivanovich insisting? There's a radio on our colleague's proposal, so I'm putting her to a vote. Amendment 194 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:44:31]] For-119 Not accepted. I'm going to straighten it Honey, did you finish your paperwork? Yes, Nadrija doesn't have any rights. Please, Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u108	My editing applied to the procedure for granting permits.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u109	Number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u110	Unfortunately, I can't find her. Valery Pavlovich, order of building permits. I was just insisting today that we develop a serious procedure for granting building permits so that, first of all, we can reduce the elements of corruption on the one hand, and then, on the other hand, the most important factor is to set the term during which this permission will be obtained. I've just been in the Czech Republic, and they have this situation resolved in a very simple and understandable way, so within 45 days, you've submitted the relevant documents, and you have to get permission at any time. If you have not obtained an appropriate permit during such a term, you have the right to start a building and do not give God in this place could not be built according to certain standards, the appropriate public service body is responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u111	This is amendment 185 of the Masters whom he gave. I can tell you right now that the best permit and document management system was still in Soviet power. The rules, terms, and decisions of local councils were clearly recorded. We've partially taken that into account. Your amendment, and I'm going to report the law today about architectural activity, there's clearly an order to shorten everyone's terms. It sounds like this. “According to the decision of the local authorities.” Here's your first amendment. I'll read it to everyone in the hall. In article 14, paragraph 2, after the dot, add the sentence “order and deadline for the provision of output data for the design of objects, the building blocks of the area are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. According to the decision -- we've taken into account how we wrote -- the decision of the local self-government authorities to develop project documentation and build objects can be made prior to the decision to grant land according to the law. That is, the terms must be in line with the Cabinet of Ministers. That's what I'm talking about. If not, local councils. I'll take it. to support and support the Master’s offer. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u112	I'm putting to the vote the 185th People's Deputy of the Masters, which is supported by the committee. Please vote. I vote friendlyly. [[11:47:31]] For-55 55, our agitation was weak. Not enough. Yes, please, Carmazin, then the Roadrunners.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin. I wanted to thank Valery Pavlovich for the good preparation of this bill, because my 136th amendment, where something is written, is rejected, although in principle I see that it is counted. I suggested that we delete articles that conflict with the Constitution and completely. That contradicts part 2 of article 12 of the project. Because you've written down now, firstly, according to the court's decision, secondly, giving an equivalent amount of space to the number of rooms, the living rooms within. or premises within a quarter of the complex reconstruction of the inhabited site. That's what really scared the people who would take them to the center of Kiev or Odessa or Dnipropetrovska and give them away somewhere in Solovakia. This is where the question is now being resolved. So, Valeriy Pavlovich, I didn't understand why for statistics, for legal accuracy, why you didn't write that Carmazin's amendment taken into account in this case, because the violation of the Constitution has already been removed in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u114	But the article doesn't sound like what you said, it's something else, but with your amendment, we agreed on what would be after the first reading. They're really accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u115	Yes, we've reached the “peaceful”, that's what I understand. Yuri Anatolyevich, no more of your rights? None. Yes, please, Sergei Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Drogants, faction of the Company. I address you and Valery Pavlovich. I had an amendment first to the article one. It was about changing the concept, the methodology of the law itself. The law is anti-national, draft law. It is designed to realize the interests of so - called investors, capitalists, entrepreneurs, and at the same time directed against the people. That's his main flaw. And then it all unfolds in specific articles. And I want to draw your attention to the use of four sections. The first item is not taken into account, it's quite clear, the second is taken into account in editorial terms, i.e. not counted, the third is counted in part, almost not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u117	Sergey Ivanovich, your time is up. We're running the language right now on your first turn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u118	Adam Ivanovich, I even had a conversation before considering this law with Sergei Ivanovich. That's really true. He's got a few amendments. Yeah. I can say the next thing. I understand the political mood in the hall and everything. I couldn't say that this law is anti-national. And I also can't say that this law is not designed to support investors. So it's really designed to support investors. And in this law is defined, we have the main law of our state the Constitution, that without the owner's consent, no one will move him out. Without the consent of the city council, no one will be remodeling a block. And that's first of all, I'm repeating today, with the city of Kiev, where there's a problem. And at the next meeting of the committee, we will be discussing the construction of the central part of Kiev. Because in their time, Kiev’s structure was squandered. Hope was at the Cabinet of Ministers' meeting to consider the overall development plan of Ukraine and to consider the master plan for the development of our country's capital is Kiev and to approve it as a law, and then we would work. And we do it through our necks: first, laws that we make decisions. Why is it that I have just arrived from Lugansk, where five - story buildings are located? Borispilla, Brewery and so on -- they're going to be remodeled. There's enough space to build housing. And in Kiev, we need to create conditions for housing. We can't leave it as it is. So, Sergey Ivanovich, your amendments are. They're partially accounted for, partly not. I would like us to address the political issue, to work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, let's take care of this. First of all, it's about editing the first Sergio Ivanovich. He makes a note of the law, but he introduces the law. So we have nothing to vote for, because there's no specific proposal here except that there's a characteristic of the law. And the words of Valery Pavlovich. It is not said that this law is for Kiev alone. This is one thing and the other is that the Supreme Council cannot pass the law for Kiev, for Luhansk, for Odessa separately. It's a general law. If we accept it, any city that wants to use this law will be used. Then we can agree now that we are only accepting Kiev’s law. Let's forget about Kiev. In that sense, we will legally forget. It's for any city. For Kiev, it's the hottest, I'll support it. Yeah, someone else does. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u120	I'll write a line. You said if you don't mind. I'm really saying that the law is being passed for all of Ukraine. That's the first one. I'm sorry, but he's going to be working today as he works in Moscow only in Kiev. And I can say it again. I've been in the process of reconstructing the cartilage since 1987. And this reconstruction didn't go away. It's a very difficult question. First of all, the displacement of citizens. Because you have to give a new home that meets the standards that there is. cities. But the main thing is that without the consent of the city council, there will never be a single reconstruction of the microregion. The city council accepts. And the city council today is formed or elected by the national deputies or deputies of the district council, who are elected there, in the same regions. If the MPs work properly, there will be no rights violated by our citizens. And that's the question that needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u121	It's absolutely right. Please, Valery Assadchev. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Valery Pavlovich, I very much ask you to pay attention. There's one serious, I don't think it's appropriate. Read from the beginning what the law defines the legal, economic and other principles for the replacement of obsolete housing and non-residential funds, and article 3 “The scope of the law” states that it only regulates relationships that relate to an outdated housing fund. So you have two articles that do not match each other. In my opinion, the question of nonresidents can only be asked in the context of housing. Because the law is designed to reconstruct the housing fund. And where there's non-residential embedded in housing, it can regulate and regulate a non-residential fund at all, I don't think that law can. Therefore, these two articles need to be made to answer each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u123	I'll say it was Stanislaw Ivanovich Gurenko's amendment. We corrected, wrote in the article an amendment, an outdated housing fund, and no housing funds. In fact, there are built and furnished buildings, and it is included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u124	In the final edition, let us listen to Valerius of Casterly’s legal contact with the first and third articles. Who else is a national MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u125	If that is not the case, then it will have to be removed from nonresidential housing, a process that should not be in any way possible. Thus, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko’s amendment is taken into account, and we edit it as Valery Osadchiy suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u126	That's what I'm talking about. Dear colleagues! Who else was making the proposals is still Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u127	Adam Ivanovich, I see your mood, the spirit of the reporter, which is that I don't talk at all about my rejected amendments, and about 30 and two thirds of them are rejected by direct text. So I want to say that I will not vote for this law in any weather. I'm going to vote no, and I want you to know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u128	Sergei Ivanovich, I publicly state that you have every right per minute to each of your 30 unaccounted amendments, if you have a wish, please, which claim we will determine. No one will deprive you of such a right, call it an order, a page, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u129	Editing article 14, part one, part two. An out-of-date housing fund, what's that definition? Tell Valérie Pavlovich what it is. There are no clear criteria for definition. I'm saying he's living in an out-of-date, and he says I'm living in an out-of-date, and what's he really like? I'm offering the criteria, and it's written like this, counted editorially, so it's not counted. This is page 4 of Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u130	The next 16 is your amendment. I can say the next thing. What order, believe me, I am ready to answer these questions. We can't specifically record in the law all over the buildings. I say again, there are commissions of MPs, experts and scientific design institutes in misquikoncoms today. A commission is being set up, and they define it as an out-of-date or out-of-date fund? Is he suitable for housing or not? His emergency or the magnificence of this house, or simply to be put on capital repairs. And according to this decision, the city council decides to move out. That's the category. And that's how it's determined today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u131	Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u132	Today, even a new house may have to be decided by the commission and will have to move out and figure out how the science academy is being considered today. has not been built for several years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u133	Valeriy Pavlovich, Sergey Ivanovich, in article 1 of this law there is a special definition, this is on page 3, what is an “obsolete housing fund”? It's a population of housing objects of all kinds of property, and so on and so forth. So that's what this definition of the law is. Another issue is how objective it will be then. Yes, you insist on voting the amendment. He insists. 14th Amendment Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov, please identify yourself. [[11:59:13]] For-98 Not supported. What's your next assignment?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u134	16.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u135	16 let's skip. Because there's a lot of them. 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u136	20, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u137	Article 1 Part 6. This is about land areas and this article is so worded that this part is kind of about a region in the Sahara Desert. People live in the same area. It's not an empty area, it's not an American prairie, let's count on it, it's not legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u138	You haven't read it completely. I'll read it. First. Part One, that is, Article 1 of Part 6. The person who made the decision is still talking about a land that is not inhabited by humans but that is found in the American prairie or in the Sahara Desert. You have to. A decision that was made on the condition of the voluntary consent of people living in old homes. First of all, the person does not accept, but accepts the city council. No person, according to the Law, has the right to make a decision. That's the first one. The other one. I can say the next thing, without people's consent, I repeat, this is predetermined, no one has the right to build this microregion, and there's order, agreement on the project, and then there's a decision to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u139	Sergey Ivanovich, we vote whether you are satisfied with the answer. He insists on voting. The 20th amendment of Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov Please be determined. [[12:01:08]] Z-71 What's your next correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u140	22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u141	Let's just skip the 20th. 22nd. It will be edited as follows: instead of “legislature” everywhere, it should be written “law”. They said they wrote because the normative acts applied here too. Now the 26th amendment to part one of the tenths. Remove the word “microregion” is about individual houses, about blocks and microregions. Where the city, the center, in the central areas, the entire microregions will be destroyed. I think we should cut to the block. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u142	Please, Valery Pavlovich, this is the 26th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u143	The Law is called “On the Complex Reconstruction of the Quarters. ” [[microregions]] The quarter-- it could be a micro area, it could be different. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u144	I'll bet you a vote. Please identify yourself with Amendment 26. [[12:02:48]] For-69 Yes, next what, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u145	Next article, part 12. After the word “living,” add: “dwelling. This house.’ Many apartments are rented today. And taking into account those who do not have any right to this house, it is not appropriate to include it. They're temporary people who live there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u146	Drogunzov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u147	The point is, it's not about people who live here illegally. Not migrants, but those who live here from the beginning, in this house, these people need to be pointed out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u148	I'll bet the vote on the 28th. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:04:04]] For-67 Not supported. What's your deal? Please, Drogunzov microphone, 38th revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u149	38th, this is the whole first article. It's part 14th. That's the concept of starting housing. Let Valeriy Pavlovich explain what is the “starter”? I think that when people move from the center of the city to the neighborhood, and they're basically pensioners, they're not starting houses, they're finishing houses. And I'm asking you to replace it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u150	Home homes will be built within the area where the reconstruction will take place. All citizens will be relocated from this neighborhood and into the area of this microquart, with the consent of these citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u151	Vote. There is, Valeriy Pavlovich, a purely professional term for “start house”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u152	Well, they found that term.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u153	That's the term they found. Of course, there'll be a house like this. I'll bet you a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u154	Previously it was called, there were “rural houses” in each project, where residents were relocated for capital repairs, for the construction of a block. Then they went back to these neighborhoods after contracts were made for moving into the same house. Without a contract, without contractual relations there will never be any eviction from the house.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u155	Valerius Pavlovich, yes, perhaps we will leave him that way: “the house of migration”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u156	Well, as for the word "resettlement fund," it's like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u157	Oh, no? Yeah, let's do it. All right, we're done here. I'm voting for Sergio Ivanovich's 38th amendment. Please vote. [[12:06:16]] For-66 So, what other amendment do you want to vote on?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u158	There's a forty-second amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u159	The microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u160	The law everywhere, especially in the first part of the 15th article, and in the subsequent articles, uses this expression, such a category as “social needs”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u161	What is the amendment, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u162	That's 42th. I believe that after the words of the Housing Fund, it is not about social needs, but “for the purpose of providing their residents with comfortable housing”, as it were.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u163	Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u164	I can do what social needs are. The residents of the house live in such a house, there must be every condition to be able to live normally. These are social needs. Well, I do not deny to add as Sergey Ivanovich wrote: “to provide their residents with comfortable accommodation”. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u165	I'm betting on the 42nd amendment of Sergio Ivanovich. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u166	You don't have to vote. We have to agree: “to provide their residents with comfortable accommodation”. Agree. [[12:07:50]] For-58
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u167	58. What other suggestions, Sergey Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u168	Offer 66.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u169	66, please. S.I. DRUGNS 66 of article 4. After the words “Constitution of Ukraine”, I propose to write “according to the Constitution of this law” and beyond the text, dropping the word “others” because we do not know which. It is this law that must be followed by the Constitution by builders or self - government agencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u170	Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u171	I'll bet you 66 votes. [[12:08:56]] For-59 Any other suggestions, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u172	72 and 74 accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u173	Now. Counted, yes, the only investor, if the truth is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u174	Printed in a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u175	Please, mic, 88.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u176	I suggest in this part of the tenth article 7 that you write, that's where it starts: you release investors and so on. To write: “Constructor investors transfer part of the built housing area in an orderly manner.”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u177	It's written that it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u178	Self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u179	Sergey Ivanovich, 88 accounted for, this readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u180	We do. What's the readout? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u181	104.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u182	It's kind of technical, but it's very important. It is said that residents of a residential house or neighborhood are warned that they are being expelled from the residential area within a month. In a month! And I suggest you write. What's a man like in a month? He can’t even come to his senses when he hears such a message. I propose to write “in six months”. Valerius Pavlovich will write. reads “refused because this limits the right to information”. Did you hear that? In six months, it limits the right to information. No, that's it. There's the inventors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u183	Sergei Ivanovich, well, first of all, I didn't write, but the law was passed by the government. So don't put any arrows on me, please. That's the first one. And secondly, I can tell you, not in six months, they're just going to come into the micro-region and just ask one citizen, or they're going to come and do geological research, and they're all going to know where they are, who they're building, who they're dealing with and everything. What's six months? She'll know right away. Why wait six months?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u184	I vote 104 right. I'd like to make a statement. We'll finish the question, and we'll call it a 30-minute break. [[12:12:02]] For-61 Yes, 109 of your amendment is. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u185	Counted. Editable.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u186	Then it's 131.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u187	It says this in 131. And the article is 12. Part 1. The point is that an independent valuation of the value of this house will be made. Valery Pavlovich, who is she independent of? From the owner of the house or apartment. Who is she independent of? I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u188	From investors who are going to make an assessment. And this is controlled, right in the law, by the city council. We cannot prevent the residents from taking part in the assessment of the housing they live in. It's right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u189	Yes, do you insist on voting? Yes, we vote 131st amendment. [[12:13:22]] For-61 Yes, any other wishes, Sergey Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u190	142nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u191	142nd is your turn and 149th. 155th, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u192	Which is edited. And what this is about, I want to give you an example like this. Suppose one of the national deputies lives in one of the central areas of the city in a house called a “breeding house” or a “table”. The cost of one square meter is $600, so I estimate it in terms of terms. In this place, he was thrown into the starting house, then beat the finish line, build a 45-story house, and he has the right to get an apartment here. But here's the cost per square metre of $6,000 or conditional units. Then he must pay the difference to the builder. He can do it, huh? As a result, I write to make it clear that, regardless of the cost of his new dwelling, he was returned to his home.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u193	We're voting 155th. [[12:15:12]] Z-77 Dear colleagues, here I am being approached, accused of not declaring breaks. There are two suggestions. Sergey Ivanovich takes off his papers? He's not filming. Well, then, dear fellows, let's call it a 30-minute break. After the break, we will continue to consider the bill, although I wanted us to finish it without interruption. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 46 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u194	Sergey Ivanovich in place? Let's keep going. Valerius Pavlovich and Sergey Ivanovich Yes. We stopped at 155th. What's next? Yes, please, Drogunzov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u195	Now the amendment, Valery Pavlovich, 174th. It is written “declined”. Article 13 of Part 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u196	Forty-third page.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u197	Did you find it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u198	I'll find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u199	Yes. I suggest you delete it because it repeats another article. Instead of part 8 of article 13, insert such text “the owner of an apartment, a residential building that is reconstructed or replaced by a new building, reserves the right to receive an apartment without paying the difference between the value of the apartment removed from it and the apartment given to it in a renovated house or a new building”. That's the offer. You wrote “refused, not in accordance with the text”, not in accordance with the interests of investors, so say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u200	Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u201	Yes, I'm voting 174 votes Sergey Ivanovich Draguntsov. Please vote. [[12:50:11]] For-50 Do they want factions? Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine – 1, communists – 44, Ukraine and the People's Party – 1, Block Timoshenko, Socialists, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Ukraine – 2, Social Democrats, Democratic Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Democratic Initiatives – 0, non-fractional – 1. Sergey Ivanovich, what's your next amendment? 214, it's a pleasure. Page 51, page 214. Please provide arguments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u202	Among them were ten other amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u203	You don't insist on them. 12:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u204	I missed you, Valery Pavlovich, I'm sorry you're just tired.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u205	Absolutely not, thank you for what you said, but 204 is an amendment to Darling, you have 203.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u206	No, no, I have 214, the Roadrunners. Written by the editor, i. e. not counted. Article 16 part 3 is about the density of the new oblivion, I write, it has to correspond to sanitary, environmental and other norms, and then to the text. To make such an insert, why, because I want to tell you that in Kiev the density of the new construction exceeds the existing density of the barrier, there will be no squares, no parks, no children's playgrounds and so on, there will be some new constructions for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u207	You have to consider the proposal, I think it's defined by other legislation, and I can tell you to go to Kiev in new microregions where everything is actually accounted for. How well the complex building of microregions is prepared. I support Sergey Ivanovich's proposal and I believe that this should be taken into account without a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! There's no objection, because really, here it's clear to everyone that the construction of sanitary standards should match, don't you mind? Then we agree. Sergio Ivanovich still has two revisions of 218 and 219.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u209	Amendment 218. Article 17 part two and third, I suggest you delete it, because this rule, Valery Pavlovich, you found it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u210	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u211	Part two and part three. Because it looks like a joke and it's written just for the sake of the developer's investor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u212	She's dismissed, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u213	Vote 218 of Sergio Ivanovich's amendment, please vote. [[12:53:27]] For-57 And 219, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u214	Dear Valery Pavlovich! In the end, I wrote here, we need to make the changes and refinements that are proposed, from the 1st to the 17th articles, so that they can find their general reflection in these final positions. And finally, I want to say that the vote on my remarks is perfectly accurate to reflect the interests of the deputies present in this room or the interests of their factions. I am very grateful that you have endured all of this, and this is my last comment that you may not put to the vote. I confirm that this law is passed in the interests of the rich for the poor. If we eliminate poverty, then it will be possible to pass this law in a hundred years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u215	Thank you. If you allow Adam Ivanovich, I will comment on this too. I can tell you the next thing. We have to use it today to rebuild, to block investment in the construction sector in Ukraine. If only a builder, an investor would be inconvenient to build a dwelling, they would never build it in any city in Ukraine. And unfortunately, there are no other investments in the budget. Because we have overthrown the Housing Code, which has been imposed by the President of the veto. And I hope that, after we have considered it on the committee tomorrow, we will adopt the Housing Code with you in the next plenary week, we will overcome the President's veto, and this will introduce a system of housing for our citizens. Now I ask you to uphold this law and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u216	Yes, Sergey Ivanovich, do not enter into a discussion. Valerius Pavlovich, for the record, you said so yourself. Then after they said they were down, and then you said we didn't crash. The Supreme Council did not overthrow the Housing Codex; it accepted it. Let's put it to a vote and, I think, dear colleagues, we can say that our colleague Karmazin has a pretty serious competitor in the person of Sergio Ivanovich in activity. Before voting on your motives, please register for three minutes. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am not afraid of competition, because I am the best. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I answered you with a reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u218	Unfortunately, I didn't hear you say that again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u219	I said I was better, so I'm not afraid of competition. I'm asking you not to insult my colleagues, I'm actually from Odessa and that's why I'm joking. Dear friends, I think that such a long consideration of this issue today has led to very few people now who can even click on buttons and you can see it, Adam Ivanovich. This may well have been a reminder that people would come into the hall because there were more of them here during the break and during the break. In terms of motives, I want to say that this Law can and should be adopted, because those “breads” that are and that have been built for 20 years already threaten the lives of citizens today, many of them. I mean, the panel “breaths” aren't brick and they're threatening citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u220	Please, Bully Georgie.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u221	Buiko. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u222	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u223	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. The Communist faction will not, in principle, vote in favour of this bill, and not for the first time will it require the authors, the developers, the government to exclude today the norm under which forced evictions are envisaged. This rule violates the Constitution, because housing is private property, it's a problem that relates to the need to have a state policy to forget about social housing and give opportunities. For in the center of the city there are people of old age, and all that is associated with their future destiny depends on the will of those who today have decided to destroy this dwelling and to build a very expensive dwelling for themselves. There will be tens of millions of mothers on this one, and today others will be expelled from their homes. Therefore, the faction of Communists will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u224	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u225	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the housing problem is one of their most acute, most painful problems, which today concerns virtually everyone. And unfortunately, we've crossed the border here, divided our population into two parts. The first part is people who have money and they've practically solved the housing problem for themselves for a long time. The second category is those who don't have that money. Regrettably, they do not see the prospects for housing to date or the acquisition of housing as they do. The cartilage is really a whip, and they need to be solved. But this bill, no matter what we say, is the law of the city of Kiev. And we see that this model can only work in the city of Kiev. Neither in Mariupola nor in Sevastopol or in other cities, unfortunately, this model will not work. That's the first one. And the second. He can't help but avoid it. 25 per cent forced eviction! Whatever we say and whatever we say, there is a Constitution. There are some human rights that apply to these rules. Therefore, the adoption or non-adoption of this law unfortunately does not solve the problem of housing in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u226	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u227	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Cherniewec Region. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party tends to support the second reading of the bill, it thinks it has more advantages than negatives. And we are concerned, of course, about the problem of eviction. Although there are emergency homes that are practical. And we need to move people away. And we want this category of people to be securely protected by the state so that they can receive adequate compensation in their homes. In general, the problem of an outdated housing fund for Ukraine is extremely acute and painful. And the problem is not only Kiev, it is also the inhabitants of other cities of Ukraine, it is hopefully also the problem of “breeding” in the hometown of Chernivka, in other areas and regions of Ukraine. So this problem needs to be addressed as quickly as possible, the better it will be for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u228	Yes, we've been through all the procedures with you. We have reason to put to the vote: the adoption of the entire Law “On the Comprehensive Reconstruction of Areas of the Old Housing Fund”, registration number 7483. [[13:01:35]] For 199 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. “Our Ukraine” – 37, Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 4, People’s Party – 38, Block Timoshenko – 34, Socialists – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 23, “One Ukraine” – 15, Social Democrats – 0, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, “Democratic Initiatives” – 3, “Afterfractional” – 13. What's the offer again?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u229	There is a request: To reread the second reading to correct the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u230	The committee suggests that the bill should be re-readed. Please vote. [[13:02:41]] For 227 Copy that. But really, honourable colleagues, I think the discussion showed, and, Valery Pavlovich, try on the committee to see what really concerns the problem of forced eviction. If we regulate it in this bill, then, you see, it has a constitutional majority chance of getting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u231	I'm going to answer that question right now, so that you know that the Housing Code clearly spelled out the system of eviction of our citizens, only by decision of the court. This article of the Housing Code has been vetoed, and this veto does not allow these matters to be resolved. So I invite everyone to a committee meeting tomorrow at 15 hours, and we'll decide on this article, how it should be, and it will be a further push, including for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u232	Valery Pavlovich, for the decision of the court. But if we write in the law that 25 percent, any court will accept that it's legal. That's the trouble. You have to write it like that. Okay. Please, a line called Simonna was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u233	Simonenko, the Communist faction. My colleague Yavorowski allowed himself to express some of the thoughts about my position. Yes, indeed, he has no other point of view, both to thank and commend me for my principle consistent position, both in Soviet times and today. I understand what's going on and I'm doing everything I can to protect the working people, the poor people, the poor people because of that policy that happened during the gas crisis, and whoever was on their knees knows that story. But I would like to remind Mr. Yavorowski that we were learning the position regarding the gang member in his book “Always Cortelis” which we, the CD Komsomol, helped to write first. So again and again, I want to remind Mr. Yavorowski that we have not forgotten, and there will be a time of history when we ask, and where has the humanitarian aid of the Chernobyl Foundation gone, and with whom is he where this fund went, where hundreds of millions shared the poor, let's say, people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u234	There is a draft Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities, registration number 4008. [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić. Please, Michael Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u235	Dear National Deputies! The second reading came from the National Deputies and from the Cabinet of Ministers 170 suggestions, 11 from the National Deputies. from 11 national deputies and from the Cabinet of Ministers, the government, that is. Of these, a total of 105 are included in editorial and partial - 38, not counted - 170. I want some comments on this law. This law was long processed by the Committee on Science and Education, because it was initially adopted with an existing base that existed for the taxation of technology parks and innovation funds, then, you know, in that year these benefits were abolished, so the law was made under a modern base, taxed by a modern base. Thus, incentive mechanisms are introduced: lending and technology transfer subsidies, rewards for technology makers, and the use of technology transfer funds. But all of these are related to the transfer of technology created at the expense of government and local authorities. This is exactly what they say the main difference between this law and what was prepared for the second reading the first time. So there's a proposal to move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u236	Let's follow the same analogy, dear colleagues. Who among the national deputies insists on considering his rights? That's who I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u237	I'll tell you. Those who have been rejected are not because they are said to be in conflict, they simply have 170 many rights and are better editors. Better, more accurate editions, so you don't take them all into account, but you've taken the best into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u238	I mean, Mikhail Kuzmich, you're doing the right thing, not better, but more accurate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u239	More specifically, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u240	Yeah, no one's insisting? The minister would like a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u241	I would like to say today that the Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities is very important for our young nation, because we have a lot of interesting technologies, solutions. And the things that Ukraine takes from these technologies, they're completely unprotected, completely unregistered, unregistered, no patent cleanliness, there's no such order. This is very and very damaging to our Ukraine, our industry, our scientists. This law regulates and regulates these points. We have now prepared in the government to complete the law on innovative support. innovative activities, where there will be four types of support for scientific and technological innovation, and this law, they already give a field of support for scientific development, the introduction of high technology. And I would like to be friendly on behalf of the government to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u242	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, I have come to realize that there will be no veto on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u243	It shouldn't. There are small questions, such as subsidies, but the following law regulates it. And, Adam Ivanovich, there's all the funds written there, the very committee of science and education, I thank Rodion's colleagues, they've written out such mechanisms that it's consistent with the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers, and we'll do it in such a way that it's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u244	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law on state regulation of technology transfer activities, registration number 4008. Please vote. We'll support science. [[13:10:15]] For 283 The law is passed. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" – 25, communists – 55, "Ukraine regions" – 37, National Party – 41, Block Timoshenko – 30, Socialists – 23, Ukrainian National Party – 18, "Only Ukraine" – 19, Social Democrats – 0, "Democratic Ukraine" – 15, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 11, Deminitive – 0, non-fractional – 9. We're discussing the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, the second reading. [[concerning the admission to the stock market of its professional participants]] Bill 1098 registration number. Reports a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Households, Property, and Investments, Philip Philipovich Budzigan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 1098, was considered in the first reading on October 24, 2002. [[concerning the licensing of professional activities in the securities market]] So far, proposals for second reading have been made. A total of nine suggestions came. All offers are included. The Economic Policy Committee proposes and, at its meeting on February 8, 2005, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it accept it in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u246	Thank you. Philip Philipovich, all I have is a question, and why are you proposing to introduce it six months from the day of your publication?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u247	That's the committee's opinion, I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u248	It's a novel in practice. Or since the publication, or the new financial year, or something. Well, there's an offer, we'll figure it out. So the honourable colleagues, as you can see, all the proposals you've made are included in this bill. That's why I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 1098. [[concerning the admission to the stock market of its professional participants]] Please vote. [[13:13:11]] For 285 The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the regulation of legal relations in the valuation of property]] [[second reading]] Bill 2033 registration number. Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u249	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepared and submits to the Supreme Council a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, which proposes to bring a number of laws into line with the Act on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine. Well, we always do. If we adopt law, there is a need to make changes to other laws if this is a framework law. Here, in this case, we're dealing with such a legislative routine. During the time that followed the adoption of the bill in the first reading, some changes were already made to the laws that were proposed to be harmonized. So life is ahead of us, and the Business Act in Ukraine is completely out of force. That is why some adjustments were made to the bill that was proposed in the second reading. So we've taken into account the changes that have already taken place and taken into account the proposals that have come from the deputies. A total of 37 suggestions came to the committee, of which only 4 were rejected. The rest are counted completely, partially or editorially. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has called for a bill with observations that proposes to remove the position of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Executive Implementation, which is the only comment that has been made. Similar proposals were made by the national deputies Bespalim, Akopian, and Sharov. And the committee proposing to reject these proposals came from the fact that the changes were proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, which were agreed upon by the Ministry of Justice. The committee proposes to put to the vote those proposals, if they insist, four proposals that are rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u250	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich, I see Boris Jakovitch Bespalij is preparing. No, don't you insist on two or three suggestions? Don't insist. The Akopian have any comments and suggestions? Don't insist. And I guess if I'm right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u251	The last hunchback offer. Nor does he insist. Then, dear fellows, let's listen to the opinion of the committee of profile and support this bill. I'm voting on the adoption of the law in second reading as a whole as a law. The Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Settlement of Legal Relations in Property Assessment. Bill 2033 registration number. Please vote. [[13:17:23]] For 299 We're increasing the pace, the law's being passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the securities market]] Registration number 2038. [[second reading]] Report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy for the Management of National Property and Investments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the people! The Committee on Economic Policy considered and prepared for second reading a bill relating to amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the market in zinc paper in Ukraine. In accordance with the law of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, powers may be delegated. may delegate its powers to the central authority and to the territorial authorities by taking a decision as appropriate, as approved. This legislative initiative was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, supported by the Supreme Council on first reading, and was adopted as a basis. And given that, if adopted for, we hope for the law, the Committee does not believe that such a provision could be contrary to article 19 of the Constitution. That was the point made by the Chief Legal Authority. It is true that the concept of the law, as a result of preparation, has been partially changed in preparation for the second reading that we have received 8 amendments, of which 7 have been taken into account, one has been rejected. I propose to vote in favour of this bill and to adopt it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u253	Thank you. So here, basically, all of the adjustments are partially accounted for, one amendment is only 7 of Burjak's national deputies -- rejected. Sergey Vasilovich doesn't insist on her? Don't insist. Then the amendments that are partially taken into account do not insist on editorial clarifications. No, it's not. Then I put to the vote a proposal for a professional adoption committee as a whole as a law amending some of Ukraine's securities market regulation laws, registration number 2038. Please vote. [[13:20:13]] For 324 That's good. 324. The law is passed. See 283, 285, 299, 324 each bill is gaining an increasing number of votes. There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2441. [[on responsibility for violations of privatization legislation]] [[second reading]] Reports the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property, and investment of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u254	The draft Law was adopted on first reading as early as 2003. The second reading bill proposes to establish the administrative responsibility of public enterprise officials for violating the requirements of privatization authorities for the timely provision of reliable information on facilities to be privatized or the provision of such information to the fullest extent. In addition, the bill aims at clarifying the time of the transfer of ownership to a privatization facility from a seller to a buyer. Three amendments were made to the project by the Vasuk People's Deputy. Two of them are accounted for in part and one is rejected. In fact, the amended word adopted on first reading is proposed to replace the word “price” with the word “price”. The Committee does not support this proposal because the text of the Act to which amendments are made applies the term “value of objects”. It should be noted that the bill received a comment from the Legal Office, which had been considered by the Committee. The Legal Office points out that the first reading edition adopted, namely, clarifying the moment of the transfer of ownership to the object of privatization from the seller to the buyer, is inconsistent with the provisions of the Civil Code. Since the Civil Code does not prohibit the establishment that ownership of a privatized facility has been transferred to the buyer since the payment of the full value of the acquired privatization facility, as indicated in the projects that we are considering today. And according to the Constitution, the legal regime of ownership is established by law, and the Committee considers that the observations are only a recommendation. Given that the proposals were also contrary to the concept adopted in the first reading of the bill, the Committee left them unattended. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt the Act on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u255	Thank you. Catherine Timothy, are you satisfied with your adjustments? No one else has made any amendments, so I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending certain Ukrainian laws on liability for violations of privatization legislation. Registration number 2441. Please vote. [[13:23:28]] For 284 Copy that. But the pace is down. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine. [[on non-banking institutions]] [[second reading]] Registration number 2533. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment, Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u256	Thank you. I think Adam Ivanovich, you don't have to count anymore, or they will. Dear colleagues! We are considering several successive drafts dealing with the work of the Securities Commission, the stock market. An important issue for our economic policy. What is more, we have noted with you at the parliamentary hearings that economic policy is said to be in the bud. The most valuable mechanism is the stock market mechanism. And here's another bill -- number 2533 -- on the state regulation of the securities market in Ukraine. Our Economic Policy Committee has prepared a second reading of the bill. The draft law deals with the market relations of securities. Specifically, giving authority to the Securities Commission, the stock market, the definition of individual issues, the terms relating to professional activities in the market. The General Legal Administration's comment relates to the integration of the three bills. Two of them are already with you on second reading and in general. We therefore propose that, given that all the amendments, which were 20, 17 of them were taken into account, three of them were rejected, adopted the bill on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u257	Thank you. I refer to my colleagues, Gorbal and Dobkin. Their revisions are out of the question. Do they insist on voting? There's no wish. Then we put it to a vote, I put it to a vote: on adoption as a whole as a law of the Law “On Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the State Regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine”, registration number 2533. [[everything else is counted]] [[on non-banking institutions]] Please vote. [[13:26:25]] For 275 The law is passed. The question is: the draft Act on the Disciplinary Statute of the Customs Service of Ukraine. [[resecond reading]] Registration number 3379. Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property, and Investment, Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we are again considering a multifaceted bill on the disciplinary statute of the Customs Service. Why do I say "many sufferers", because it is long needed, long time ago, but we can't accept it at all. As a result of the committee's work, we received 180 amendments in preparation for second reading. Fully, partially, edited 109. 71 readjustments rejected. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill - it deals with the settlement of internal relations within our customs authorities, i.e. discipline and ethics issues. Of course, it is not about economic issues, it is not about customs formal procedures. It is proposed to consider amendments that have not been taken into account 71 amendments. Frg_00360*002*017&lt;13:27: 59&gt; And yet I ask you to adopt on second reading and generally this law, which is very much needed by our customs officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u259	Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete. Who of the national deputies intends to stand up for their amendments, and many are not included here? Yes. Please, Boris Vanity, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u260	Boris Nepaly, Victor Yuschenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. It's 86 amendments, 91, 152, they're exactly the same. Here the term is used everywhere in the law of “special authority of executive authority in the field of customs”. I'm not only because it's been sounding for a long time, but the Constitution of Ukraine doesn't know such terms, it's just the central organs of executive power in one field or another. By inertia, we write specially authorized and thus not only wasteful words, but also confusion, because there are ministries among the central executive authorities, there are government committees, there are central bodies with special status, and all of this is clutter. Now, I'm not suggesting that we go through a whole array of legislation, at least that doesn't prevent it, but at least not re-introducing additional confusion. So I have an editorial proposal, these are editorial corrections, remove these unnecessary words and not confuse anyone's head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u261	Thank you very much for your comment, but I would like to say that there is truth in your words, but the committee has concluded that this term of special authority is in the Customs Code. And, as we know, the Customs Code is a fundamental document governing the activities of our entire customs service. We have therefore decided to reject your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u262	I'm also in solidarity with the reporter, that Boris Jakovitch is absolutely right, that these two words here are completely unnecessary, maybe we need to clean up the Customs Code. Please turn on Boris Bespalow's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u263	Thank you, but, you know, I've got five more words literally on this one and then on that one. The point is, what do you want to do? The basis is the Constitution, and the problem is that the Customs Code should then be brought into line, not with the Constitution, but with one error to make a basis for another error. Although this question is editorial and I would suggest it for consideration by really legal administration, literary and so forth and give up on unnecessary words. And now I'd like to make 167 amendments. It says here that the application of discipline is provided for by legislation. The law is also the command of the commander; the law is the law of the law. In the meantime, we cannot allow customs to be subject to any other disciplinary charges other than those provided for by law. Therefore, the principle is to replace here with the word “law” so that there is no complacency in the imposition of penalties. This seems to be editorial, but it's actually meaningful. I insist you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u264	Dear Boris Yakovlevich, she's taking into account your amendment. We studied.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u265	167 counts. Instead of “legislation” written “law”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u266	As far as the term “specially authorized” is concerned, I believe that this is the only way to introduce a bill, a change in the Customs Code, and this disciplinary service law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u267	Yes, who else insists on their amendments? You don't? Then we'll vote. It is said that tax collectors cannot work without this law, do not give “clean hands”. For reasons of vote, three minutes. Yes, please, Bespaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u268	Thank you. Well, the fact that I had partial remarks doesn't indicate that our adherence to legislation is a hindrance to the adoption of the law. I, on behalf of the faction of Victor Yushchenk's Block, "Our Ukraine," and I think from other factions, I hope that this law will be adopted from another attempt, because, indeed, there is an urgent need for it. We all know what problems have arisen in the customs service. And we realize that only by the statute of disciplinary service will these problems not be solved or even by its inescapable compliance, as we hope. But we're still going to take a step to sort things out in customs, because this is a question that concerns not only those who work there, but also very many, and in fact all Ukrainians, because it's exports, imports and the general rule of law in the state. So our faction supports the law, and hopefully other factions will do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u269	Sergey Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u270	Adam Ivanovich, please Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u271	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u272	Simonenko, the Communist faction. First, the Communist faction will support this law, a draft law that formally strengthens the responsibility of those working at Customs today. But I call on everyone today, comrades, one of the problems to protect both the domestic producer and the business, after the events, it's a real increase of 2-3 times in bribes in the entire customs service. And it's like a whip, like some kind of infection already devours everything that has to do with the authority of the State and with human destiny. That's why it seems to me that we can't hope for just one law today, because the appointment of those involved in car smuggling, the appointment to the governing bodies, well, what does that mean? Well, it's a disgrace just for Ukraine. And if they come in today with clean hands and white, puffy ones, we need to put order in the system today. And only change in the system would enable others to be represented, those who would protect the interests of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u273	Yes, please, Ratchet. I can't see. Mikhailo Melniczuk. Oh, I'm sorry, Sergey Ratushniak, microphone, and then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u274	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! What I'm trying to say is that we're here for what they're taking, they've spread the GAI. That's it, starting in the morning. Why don't you run the Customs? After all, we still have a "transparent" today. Just yesterday it was "transparent" for one and today it was for the oranges. The whole point is that the State is pretending to pay law enforcement and fiscal officials, including customs officers, and they are pretending to work for that salary. We don't change anything. Until we make the salary he's afraid to lose, we're not changing anything at Customs. So today, Skomarowski went to Zakarpatya, where the governor collected $1 million from the Czech Customs last week. They're probably gonna be here tonight in Kiev. These laws don't change the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u275	I announced, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u276	Mikhailo Melniczuk faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Socialist Party faction will support the bill. But we do have some warnings. Of course, I agree with those colleagues who today make comments, warnings, and express their wishes for better customs work. For example, today I would have taken a customs duty in Cherniewec, where the recently appointed Mr. Dobrovolski was removed from the customs office. But still, he stayed in the system and played a lot of roles there. I think that corruption can only survive if, if a person is removed from work, if he's accused of something there, there's nothing to leave him at all on duty. And it leaves a ladder for entrepreneurs to keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u277	The conversation is over. Then I put to the vote so that the tax collectors do not accuse us accordingly of criticizing them and helping them fairly, rather than helping them. Then let us help and accept the disciplinary charter of the Ukrainian customs service. I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law, registration number 3379. Please vote. [[13:37:48]] For 314. The disciplinary statute of the customs service is accepted. Let's go to the next bill. Law “On the Free System in the Field of Economic Activities”. [[second reading]] Registration number 7541. Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Vitaly Ivanovich Majko. Please, Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u278	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has been prepared for the second reading of the bill. Registration number 7541 “About the free system in the field of economic activity”, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let me remind you that the purpose of this bill is to improve the permissive system in the field of economic activity, to define the basic principles of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, to introduce European principles, and above all to simplify the work of entrepreneurs, which is what so much has been said lately. The project reached 45 proposals. They're almost all accounted for. The committee is not supported by a proposal from a long member of the committee and partly by a representative of Carmazin. Honourable national MPs, members of the Committee on Industrial Policy, entrepreneurship in the drafting of the bill, have paid particular attention to the proposals regarding the introduction of a declaratory principle for the implementation of certain activities when initiating economic activity, and to the granting of the right of operators to choose the means of obtaining documents of a permissive nature, or to request a request directly from the relevant authority, or to appeal to the administrator. The committee also agreed with the proposals for an increase in the amount of a fine for work without State registration as a subject of farming, without licenses or permits. It is also worth noting that the bill introduces responsibility not only for the owners but also for the officials of the authorities for violating the law on the issue of documents of a permissive nature. The project also requires administrators and authorities to provide free counselling on the issue of obtaining appropriate documents of a permissive nature for the request of a host object, allowing all consultations on the procedure for obtaining permits to be made available to each applicant. Considering that almost all proposals for a second reading bill are taken into account, members of the committee propose to support the prescribed bill and to adopt the second reading and the whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u279	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Vitaly Ivanovich, you may not have said because of modesty that one of your proposals is not counted 21. You don't insist on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u280	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u281	No, it's not. Not taking into account the proposals of the Long People's Deputy, is it? Don't insist. And part of that is one of Karmazin's proposals. Don't insist. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and in general as the law on the free system of economic activity. Registration number 7541. Please vote. [[13:42:16]] For 273 The law is passed. Here we go to the draft Law on the Advancement of Human Settlements. [[second reading]] Registration number 5666, very many sixes. Report to the head of the Committee on Transport Construction, Housing and Utilities, Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u282	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! In December last year the Supreme Council was adopted as the basis for the draft Law on the Supremacy of Human Settlements, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The final draft of the bill is complemented by a series of new articles, including articles that define the concept of “balance. ” keeping the objects in good shape” to lay down and order for damages caused by the building to be compensated by the well-being of the facility, the list of assets, the rights and responsibilities of enterprises and institutions, organizations for maintaining the facility in good condition, the basic principles of protection and the maintenance of green plants. More clearly, the bill sets out the composition of the rules in a well - arranged location. In particular, it is suggested that the geographical part of the rules be complemented by an object boundary scheme with a defined balance point for these objects, as well as by areas secured by enterprises, institutions, organizations. Thus, no area of general use within the populated area will remain ungoverned. The bill clarifies the status of civil control in the sphere of well - being. In the final positions, the government is tasked with ensuring, within three months of the date of validity of this law, the adoption of legal acts arising out of this law. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 207 comments from national deputies were processed by the committee. These observations are correct and are largely taken into account in the work. The committee received a positive conclusion from the General Legal Authority, but several comments were made. I'd like to narrow it down to the main ones. First. Part two of the project’s article 36 proposes to determine the direction of funding for measures with the well - being of the population at the expense of the State budget. However, this is not in line with the requirement of part two of article 95 of the Constitution, which defines any social expenditure exclusively with the State Budget Act. Article 36 of the bill stipulates that financing of measures designed for the well - being of the population, maintenance and repair of buildings is done at the expense of the funds and their owners, or users. In particular, the State Budget funds provide for the financing of measures to implement government programs, the preparation of draft laws and other normative acts, the construction of state - owned property, the protection and maintenance of buildings by public authorities to balance businesses, jobs, and the creation of recreational facilities. These costs should also be included in the budget each year. Thus, the proposed standard does not conflict with the requirements of article 95 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The bill proposes to set a standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u283	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u284	which obliges rural, rural, city councils to set up inspections on the well - being of the settlements. However, according to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine, article 26, paragraph 5, the approval of the structure is fully approved by the city council. In line with article 40 of the bill, to monitor the well - being of the population, to enforce the rules of good-natured territories, including greening organizations, and so on. Inspections with well - arranged and populated facilities may be possible, and the proposed standard is not generally mandatory. In view of the above, the proposed standard is in no way contrary to the provision of an article of the Law on Local Self - Rule. I would ask, Your Honor Head, honourable national deputies, to adopt the Act on the well-being of the populace in the second reading and in general and ready to answer your questions. And most of all, we need to include this in the draft budget, both locally and nationally, for 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u285	Thank you for the report. Which of the national deputies is not satisfied with the outcome of the law review? I see two. Orzhachowski, please call it a readjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u286	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. My 149th is off-limits. I'll read it. I said, “Recast financial support, both self-sufficient and subsidized advice” is the subject of article 24. I realize that today's law, it's very necessary, and I thank the committee for doing well, including many of my proposals taken into account. I feel and agree that for the 24th article, it's true that we can't provide for the well-being of enterprises, institutions and organizations -- we can't allocate money from the budget. But, nevertheless, I am very serious and we have no money in the current situation on the boards, this law may not work. Maybe it won't work. So I think that in the future, I know that this is not the norm of this law, and in the future, we really need to change the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u287	Valerius Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u288	I understand that question. In fact, today, throughout the ranks of our local councils, local councils are, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, Well, I'd like to point out to my colleague that today, in the local councils, there's only enough money left to pay, depending on the councils 92-96 percent. Hence, not only is there no expense for the well - being. Nothing at all. That's why we can't write it down. Then, for health care, we don’t record the equipment to be fully listed. This should be determined only by budgets, both national and local. That's not the norm of this law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u289	Yes, he insists, no, he does not insist. Next correct, please, the Orzhachovsky microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u290	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Valeriy Pavlovich, art. 155, more faithfully, the 155th. It is written, “According to chapter 7 of this Law”, my proposal is to determine who will write the protocols, the divisional, the communautaires? After all, the states on the council are very small. I understand you've offered this as a public inspector. Please tell me, I'm not going to insist on voting either, but tell me, this is the law for the council to determine these public inspectors, is there a need for a new law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u291	According to this law, we can give an example of the city of Kiev. I came personally when I was studying, and such councils, inspections actually work in all the regions of Ukraine. And we need to give the legislature the opportunity and the right to work for these councils, to raise their level to be protected by law. And as I'm speaking, I think that the association led by Alexander Omelchenko and the cities that enter this association are clearly aware of how this inspection works. I think they should work like that, but the law must be for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u292	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u293	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u294	No, it's not. Yeah, there's still an update? Please, Orzhachowski's microphone. He'll finish his job and then we'll go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u295	Well, I have a few, I'm not going to call these lines, I just want to ask you one. Valerius Pavlovich, here is a shipment of government inspections, car inspections. I think it's worth removing from this, because we don't know what we're going to have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u296	This state inspection at Mintrans is working, we've approved the work plan, and there's funding for this year's sum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u297	Valeriy Pavlovich, let's make a deal, indeed, so let's ask the Legal Authority: when they prepare for the final signature, let's call it not in any way specific that “State auto-inspection” but “special authorities that will ensure the safety of movement” and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u298	I'll answer right away. You know, Mintrans has already created a Transport Control Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u299	But it's not about that inspection, it's about the State Auto Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u300	I agree: work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u301	So let's do this the way it's going to go on. Although in the law, it's eliminated, but it's illegal, because there is such an organ in the Police Act right now, so here you're right and wrong. Nightshade, please, what a readout. Then there's the incompetence. Nightshade Mikoli's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u302	Thank you. I made a mistake. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, 160th constituency, “Democratic Ukraine”. I made 11 amendments, four are counted, and the other are rejected. And I'd like to do the procedure first. Well, first of all, we're given a Comparative Table, where there's no full text of the law in the right column, and that's going to complicate the voting as a whole. That's the first one. The other one. Where there is a mandate for all participants in the process, there is one common point against which I deny, it is celebrated "to resolve other issues in this area". In my opinion, this record extends the authority of everyone, from the Cabinet of Ministers to the village council. There will be confusion, and there will be legal disputes. I'd like someone to report, explain why we didn't go to these points and leave it in the Cabinet of Ministers, the Village Council, the State Administration, that point? What's the point? From your answer, I will insist or not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u303	I agree with your suggestion, please delete and consider your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u304	Yes. Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u305	Thank you for these adjustments, there are 4 revisions. But I now have a specific comment on Amendment 55. Amendment 55 states that I wanted to add instead of the paragraph “organize places of rest for the population” I proposed: “design and organise”. What did you do? You have completely deleted this paragraph. By the way, you have no right under the procedure, because it has already been voted in favour of 226 votes. I ask you to return this entry and leave it either in the old edition or add two of my words. And you removed it completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u306	This was the amendment of the People's Deputy Atrocchenka, the number of his constituency 207, it was counted. It was an amendment. I can agree with your proposal, we need to put it to a vote, because we need to put it all to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u307	Yes. Now it's Mikola Petrovich, two remarks to your comments. Because you're saying that the wrong part of the bill, the more faithful, the comparison table, is formed. It's designed according to how it needs to be formed, because on the right hand side, there's the final text that we're asked to vote on. That's one thing. And secondly, you have the right to insist on the 55th amendment, but here the Committee has not violated anything. Yes, we accepted 226. But there was a proposal by the subject of the legislative initiative that everyone has the right to either yes or yes, but we are with you and you have the right to insist that this article be confirmed. So I'm going to put her to the vote now. Who's in charge of confirming the 55 amendments that the committee took into account? I'd like to make a statement. [[13:55:53]] For a hundred and The amendment is not supported, so it is unaccounted for, even though the committee has taken it into account. I mean, Mikola Petrovich, there's an editorial you insisted on. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u308	There's an offer to assign Antrotschenko and Noshchenko to take this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u309	We will no longer assign anything to anyone, for then we will drag on to an unknown vote. We just, the committee counted, but the Supreme Council didn't support the committee's opinion, so there's a previous editorial that we've adopted in the first reading, which is what Mikola Petrovich insisted. Yeah, what else are the noshenkos doing? Everyone, Mikola Petrovich? Yes, there is. Please, Nighthawk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u310	Amendment 72. Article 25, well, five of my paragraphs were voted on in the first reading and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u311	72 The Unscrupulous Amendment, please see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u312	72. Well, I guess we have different tables then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u313	Probably. I'm not shutting it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u314	I'm gonna go over to Bespaly's and find out what he's got in his 72nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u315	In article 12, part 1, paragraph 5, the words “in paragraph” will be deleted. By law, remove the order. Paragraph deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u316	Is that what you mean? Mikola Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u317	I have 72 articles, I've printed from the Internet today, and it says that when citizens privatize apartments in a large apartment building, the facilities of its territory are run by co-owners, co-owners’ associations. You're replacing the new word “the balancemaker of this house”, which was neither in the first nor in the first. there is no amendment to insert the term “balancer”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u318	Mikola Petrovich, Valeriy Pavlovich, please, Mikola Petrovich, take someone off the Internet to get us on the same page, and then we'll get back to your rights. Now, please, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u319	It's a pre-processing edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u320	It's a slightly different edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u321	Well, I still want to. I'm going to answer that question right now. So today, yes, there's a privatized house. But the union of coowners, these citizens, do not want to create. And the house, as in the middle of the building network, is on the balance sheet. So, will the house not be cleaned, or will the territory not be cared for? There will be no such thing. There will be a union of coowners, and they will be responsible for the prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u322	Valerius Pavlovich, we will then regulate when. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u323	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I think you will all agree that the laws must be written clearly, clearly and clearly, so that they are kept, not confused. That's why I'm proposing all over the text, this is the eighth amendment, the words “road-road network” and the like to replace clearly – “road-road network”, “road traffic”. Besides the streets there are avenues, there are alleys. What are we going to do, write a “bulbar-road movement”, a “bulbar movement”, a “conductive movement” and so on? It is clearly in the same state-run autoinspectorate, which has been half-accounted for or neglected, “road traffic”, “road traffic rules”. And from this point of view, all of these are roads. And it's called the brochure, the passage, the entrance or the street -- it doesn't matter. So in order to move away from this confusing situation, I propose that the entire text of the law be clearly written “road network”, “road traffic”. This will be clear, clear and clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u324	Yes, well, thank you. But what I'm saying right now is that the street is made up of both the drive and the walkway. And that's counted. We consulted after your comments, and the lawyers, and all those involved in this case, and the research institute confirmed that that's exactly the term. “The road network is considered to be a road network.” Because they will clean the road, the sidewalks will be forgotten as they are done today, where the legs can be broken. Hence, it must be written in the exact same form as that found in today’s law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u325	Boris Jakovitch agrees. Oh, no? Do you insist on voting? He does not insist, but he does not agree. Yes, are there any more of you? None. Who else? Mikolo Petrovich, have you found the text yet? Please, noschenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u326	This is the 151st Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u327	151, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u328	It's about what I suggested, if a house is privatized, it's about an apartment, I've replaced the notion of privatization of a multi-story house with the privatization of apartments. But you deleted all of that, what we voted in the first reading, and you introduced a new notion that maintenance is carried out by a counter. It's a little bit changing the situation. Because there's a lot on the balance sheet that we have dormitories. The balance sheet doesn't have any funds. And virtually the well-being of these areas and the buildings themselves go down to zero. Please explain. I'm going to insist that we go back to the old edition of the 25th article or vote in the hall. If you dial 226, you write a new line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u329	Dear, dear Mikolo Petrovich. Like today. The microregion reconstruction law all said that there are rich people who build houses at the expense of their expenses, who form joints of owners, fence their territory, determine and serve private jacks. That's right, I agree. Today, however, 95 percent of the housing that remains on the balance sheet has not been resolved. And that's why this law has to be. By now, the owners of each building will gradually exit the network and form a network of joint owners who will serve the entire home territory. I'm just saying, we've had our seminars and that's it. But unfortunately, today, if you take a 90-bedroom home like this, the percentage of 30 don't want to be co-owners of these unions at all. Which is in Kiev, which is in other regions of Ukraine. We need to do the right job. So I insist that it remain in the condition of the law today. We can't leave people, the more you say, there's no cost of maintenance. Local budgets should be financed by the owners on whose balance sheet these houses are located.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u330	Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u331	Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u332	The vote is whether or not you vote. Noshchenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u333	I insist that we vote as defined in the Rules of Work. We're actually changing the wording of what's voted, the basis of the law. If the House votes to “remove” what we voted for. in the previous edition, I won't deny it. But once I've changed my line, I've lost it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u334	Okay. So, dear colleagues, be careful. I'm going to have a two-vote. Maybe two. The first vote will be the amendment of the Noshchenka People's Deputy. If she gets support, we don't vote next. If Noshnik's amendment doesn't get any support, we'll have another vote for the committee's proposal. Do you understand? I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 151 People's Deputies Noshchenka. Please vote. [[2:04:02]] For-60 Not supported. I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Explain why. Because we accepted it in the first reading, the committee changed it. We need to confirm this. A proposal for a profile committee shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u335	We vote in favour. Then we'll leave the territory of the instigator uninhabited. “For” has to be voted. [[14:04:39]] For 148
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u336	For - 148. Thus, honourable colleagues, there remains an editorial that was adopted in the first reading. Exercising? Whose is this? I don't know. Well, the noun can be explained. The insistence of Noshchenk, the national MP, your colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u337	Adam Ivanovich, I apologize, but this seems to be the Law on the Unification of Owners. He clearly determines how unity is formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u338	I understand. That law will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u339	No one is in business today, and tomorrow all the doormen will stop sweeping around our houses.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u340	Valeriy Pavlovich, then I have questions for those who prepared the law, and this was prepared in a different edition, because we leave what was in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u341	Adam Ivanovich, I have to answer that the Housing Code, which the government passed in general was unnatural, and we've adopted it for ten years that other laws, to the Supreme Council, are to work out laws that met these laws to the requirements of our citizens, our electorates and then vote for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u342	There's a proposal from a fellow official, a profile committee I understand insists, once again put his proposal to the vote, it's a 33-page issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u343	Where there will be creation, a union of coowners, an automatic machine will be used. This is one of the strategic issues. We have to move away from the Jacks so that the mergers can take care of these houses. And give citizens the right to run their own house, build gas stations, garages, playgrounds, everything. That's right. But this needs to be done through the law on "unification of co-owners."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u344	Valeriy Pavlovich, me, not all colleagues have hands. It is therefore proposed to write this: “The maintenance and well-being of the building in the residential area of the apartment building, the appropriate buildings, the building is carried out by the owner of the building or the company, the institution, the organisation with which the balancemaker has made the relevant contract for maintenance and well-being in the building territory.”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u345	And also the union of the owners where they were made. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u346	As well as bringing together the owners. Please support the committee's proposal. Vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[14:07:22]] For 282 So it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u348	Orzhachowski, please, what's the readjustment? I'm stressing the committee's editing. Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u349	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Adam Ivanovich, 85th Amendment. Wrote “accounted for”. Valeriy Pavlovich, I think we're only halfway there for the council to give them a chance to strengthen their rights in the field of well-being. My suggestion was to supplement article 12 with a position on strengthening administrative influence by counseling violators with the well-being of legal and natural persons. Yes, indeed, and it's written in the definition, in the set order of the amount of compensation. But this concept is in its proper order. So are we going to be guided by the Administrative Code or some other position? I think it's still going to be that way when we're 17 or 54, because there's no specificization here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u350	Let's write down either the city council's defined positions on the fine, or the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u351	You can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u352	Dear colleagues! So let's say we don't in every law don't determine fines, because there are special laws that define that. Do we have a deal? This law cannot determine fines but, indeed, in the order established by law. And the codes set out this order, and the committee is right here. Yeah, no more remarks? Then I'm voting on adoption as a whole as the Act on the well-being of the populace. [[Registration number 5666]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u353	We vote in favour. [[14:09:28]] For 298
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-06-m0.u354	Thank you. Despite the fact that there are three sixes in the registration room, the Law, you see, has passed successfully. The morning session may be closed by honourable colleagues. [[We won't be able to get another look.]] Break till 4:00.
