ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:30.]] There were 422 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Sigala Evgen Yakovic, who is 50 years old. Let's welcome him on his birthday. And Stretovich Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Let's welcome our colleagues, we wish for all kinds of good things. Dear colleagues, the results of our work at the plenary on May 18th. Six issues of the agenda have been considered. Three laws have been passed, two bills adopted on the first reading on the basis of which one bill has been rejected. Dear colleagues, if you would like to say anything about blocking the rostrum. Whatever you want, political. - it's talk. What exactly do you want? So make a statement and then make a statement. What are you going to say? Please don't direct me, because then there won't even be anyone to block the rostrum. I'm going to make a statement. Now you're going to do what we have to do. I'll turn it on, make an application. Give me the application, I'll turn it on. For what reason? Come on. Regulation. We'll follow the Rules. I want to say it again. Well, there's a Rules, let's follow the Rules. Well, please. What do you find difficult to do? Please, come on. Who? No, come on, dear fellows, I'm asking you. Well, one minute, please, let's stick to it. There's going to be one side, the other side's going to blame. Oh! It's okay! Dear colleagues, two factions according to the Rules -- the faction of Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine -- are asking for a 30-minute recess. [[united]] But they're ready to make a statement now. A break of up to 10 hours is announced for 35 minutes. Members of the MPs and factions, please meet on the third floor for consultations. About 10 o'clock, 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we agreed on a solution that is proposed to you for consideration and support. The first is the broadcast. The broadcast to the street will now be enabled. The second is to allow two factions -- the factions of the "Ukraine" and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine to speak with information, which required them to take a break. [[united]] [[information up to five minutes]] Then the information required by the two factions, Democratic Ukraine and the People's Party, is three minutes. After hearing the information of the commission’s chairman of the special inquiry committee, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaki, about the commission’s work, he asks five minutes and 10 minutes of questions to the head of the commission. Then take a decision, vote that we will hear the report of the Commission on June 1st with the invitation of the members of the government and the Attorney General, well, clearly, the Commissioner for Human Rights. At 2:00 p.m., 15 minutes, a meeting of the Conciliation Board will be held, inviting the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs to attend. That's the deal. Then we continue to work until we consider the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time. Is there no objection? Yeah, from two factions, who's gonna act? Hara is a national MP. Yes, five minutes, please. Please sit down, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! On 21 April, we made a decision with you to establish a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, which we committed not later than 15 days after the establishment of this Commission to listen to its report. It's been a long time for more than 15 days, there's no report, and so I've come up with a decision to hear a report from the High Council's Provisional Investigation Commission on constitutional rights verification. Second, listen to information provided by the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka, Minister of Culture and Tourism of Belarus on the issues of respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. You and I know the reason why we set up such a commission because political repression continues in our country, more than 18,000 civil servants have already been dismissed, jailed without grounds by the President of the Donetsk Oblast Boris Kolesnikov, the ex-governor of the Zakarpatsky area of Ivan Rizak, a White Swan employee of the Doñek Irina Igolnikov University and continues to be pressured by suicide. Last night, without political pressure, the president of the Zekarpatsky Rural Council of the Zakarpatsky region of Yakubinska Elena Believna ended in 1958. And other terrible facts that we have in our country. Therefore, I ask you to support this draft order. I think it will be good to hear the information from the Attorney General's Office about his silent reaction to our approach to suppressing the detention measures against Boris Kolesnikov, Ivan Rizak and Irina Igolova. And may I, upon his instruction, read out the address to the Supreme Council for the meeting that is under the walls of the Supreme Council: "The call of a public stockholder, "No!" political repression.” Today, our nation has become the scene of disgraceful persecution by political opposition in the eyes of the world. Pressure on dissidents and political opponents has become disastrous. Ukraine is gradually becoming a police state that threatens peace and stability, violates human rights and citizens Today we question the desire of the new power to build a democratic and free state in which the rule of law prevails. The reason for this is those shameful events that are now taking place with unprecedented proportions throughout the country. People are fired from their jobs, confiscated property, drawn to criminal responsibility, and so forth. We have to note that article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the inability to pursue political preferences exists only on paper today. Having received a loan of trust from several million citizens who participated in an orange coup, the new authorities demonstrate total indifference to the public’s voice. A large number of Ukrainians are protesting throughout the country to in any way draw the attention of the authorities to the pressing problems of the state. The authorized Supreme Human Rights Council, Nina Karpachov, noted on April 7, 2005, that Ukraine is today the world leader in the number and systematic application of arrests under any circumstances. According to Karpachov, compared to the first quarter of this year, the number of citizens' appeals for violations of the rights of citizens of a personal political nature has increased by nine times. At a time when prices are rising wildly, there is an amplitude of foreign exchange rates, there is an increasing crisis in the energy market, there is an increase in power as in 37 years, and there is a strong effort to find the enemy and translate all the problems of the country into it, and there is a dictatorship. The most violent cases of political execution have been the illegal arrest of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Boris Kolesnikov, the ex-governor of the Zakartat region of Ivan Rizak, Irina Igolova, Viktor Dyachenko and others. In carrying out political orders, the Attorney General’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have brutally violated the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. We're turning to new power, let's go! Think of your promises on Maidan! Stop the social turmoil that is taking place in our country and put the country back on track for democratic development. Give up the appeal, draw up the accounts with the other investigators, and stop the repression and persecution of people who have a different opinion. Dear National Deputies! Don't stay away from Ukrainian democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u4	30 seconds, please. We're tolerant people. We'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u5	Do not let Ukraine become an odinous police state. Urge the immediate and objective report of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification and enforcement of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Ask the Attorney General to implement the recommendations of the Supreme Council for which 282 national deputies voted. We return to you with a request to raise the question of the resignation of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. They have stained themselves with political strife and violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. We are confident that your high authority and conscience will affect the new authorities and make them respect democracy. As shareholders, we strongly demand a change of precautions for the head of the Donetsk district council of Kolesnik, the ex-governor of Rizzak's Carpathians. Victor. We are confident that this will be the first step towards building, indeed, a democratic state. Contributors' signatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u6	Yes, thank you, fellows of honor! Now to, from the Group Democratic Ukraine and the People's Party, please, the People's Deputy Stanecki. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I won't be three minutes, I'll be in in half a minute. I want to inform you that a terrorist act has been committed in the Ivano-Frankow region against my family. At night, a group of about 4.5 young people threw bottles with a fire mixture of my house and my mother's house, in the region of Johno-Frankiv, in the village of Taterov, in the region of Jaremchán, thanking the god in the houses of no one had completely burned one house and another burnt. I appeal to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give a political assessment of this fact. I'm calling on President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk to give an order to the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to find the bandits, the thieves who committed the crime. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u8	On this point, I ask the secretariat to promptly prepare the necessary appeals to law enforcement structures and to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We made a deal now. One minute, we have to vote. Dear colleagues! We agreed that we'd listen now. Dear colleagues! We agreed unanimously that we would now listen to information from the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the progress of the work of the committee of Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaki. The following rules are proposed: 5 minutes for information, 10 minutes for questions and answers. I'm voting on this proposal: hearing information about the commission's work, the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission of Musiaki Viktor Lavrentiovich. Please vote. [[11:18:04]] For 296 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! Our Ukraine -5, the communists -56, the Ukrainian regions -48, the People's Party - 32, the SPI-27, the Block of Timoshenko - 3, the Ukrainian People's Party - 10, the SDPU - 20, the only Ukraine - 20, the Democratic Ukraine - 18, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 12, the Union - 13, the Democratic Initiative - 13, the non-fractional - 19. I would like to remind you, dear fellows, that at the Conciliation Council we had unity in this matter. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u9	Dear National Deputies! Remember, the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen was formed on April 21. It was created with this question, with this topic, but this topic actually covers the entire second chapter of the Constitution of Ukraine. So in our first session, and then in our second session, we had a special session with this problem, and we've defined the specific directions that the commission should be working on. Because you understand that the commission can work until the next election and will hardly solve all the problems that have arisen before it. I just want to say, there's been a huge stream of statements, materials, dozens of them now. And I think there'll be more of them, we need to work on them, of course. This takes time. That's why we've identified these directions of work, these working groups in the direction of researching the facts of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens at work with Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, researching materials on the facts of violations of human constitutional rights and freedoms, and a citizen on free will in the elections, first of all, you see, electoral matters. This is led by the head of the working group, Ratushna Mikhailo Jaroslavovich, a study of materials on the observance of constitutional rights and freedoms of the individual and citizen in the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the tax authorities and the executive authorities. And here's an analysis of judicial practice in the field of the implementation of human and civil rights and freedoms, led by Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. The next direction is to explore materials on the renewal of rights of victims of political repression led by Taran Victor Vasilovich. And another direction is to summarize the Commission's work on the need to work out those legislative proposals that are intended to ensure the implementation of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. So we organized our work, we held five meetings. During the last session, we discussed the issue of discharge as director - general and artistic director of the Lesi Ukraine - Mikhail Rezniković Theatre. At this meeting we invited the Minister of Culture and, as there is now, tourism and tourism, Mrs. Oksana Bilozer. Regrettably, she did not show up for this meeting, her first deputy came in, and he gave appropriate explanations. But I think we should pay attention to that. Oxana Volodymyryn could have approached me herself, perhaps I don't know who she was there to inform the members of the Commission. Before the Cabinet of Ministers began its meeting at which she was present at the time. And I'm also paying attention to this because the attitude towards the work of the board of government is something like this. Because Balog, whom we have invited to work on issues related to the protection of the rights of citizens, has also not come to the meeting of the Commission. Well, there are some things on the Internet I wouldn't want to comment that he was interviewing him about what he had to do. As a matter of fact, I don't want to argue that that's what happened. So I want to tell you right now: to ensure the normal work of the Commission of ours and all those Commissions that are about 40, you know, there are temporary investigation committees in the Supreme Council that have been created. A legislative framework is essential. We've turned from our Commission to the Supreme Council, to the faction leaders and groups, and I want to thank you right away for responding to this proposal and for the next plenary week there's a question in order about the adoption of the Law on Temporary Inquiry by the Commission. This has to be the base on which we have to work. Now we can only use those mechanisms that are just in the MP's hands. Because, you see, invitations to these meetings can be ignored, and in fact, we do not have any tools to make government officials present for these meetings. Now, about the questions that have arisen today. They didn't come up today, they're very tightly placed today, about the release from Rizak, John Rizak and Boris.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u10	Yeah, give me a 30-second chance to finish thinking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council asked the Attorney General to take a decision on a change in the precautionary measure. I think that the Supreme Council, as the legislative body, as the higher political body of the State, has the right to do so. And now we need to hear the Attorney General's response. But the commission, the interim commission of inquiry, is working to investigate all the circumstances surrounding the detention of these citizens and report to the Supreme Council. We're doing it. Now we're going to explore the relevant materials, we're going to meet these people, we're going to meet the right officials. Why I'm telling you, we may still have problems. And it is necessary to ensure that they are resolved in a legislative way. We're going to do this next week, and we're going to do the final report at the beginning of the next plenary week, that's about the first one, as it was said, the number. I would ask that this report be accompanied by a discussion of the forces involved, with the participation of the leaders of our government, and perhaps even the President with an invitation. Because the issue is about ensuring human and civil rights and freedoms. And now I'm asking the commission not to be pressured, given a calm, thorough study of all the circumstances and to prove the facts themselves, to prove the right conclusions based on the facts, the conclusions that we're going to offer you. We, I guarantee you, will do it in good faith. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Tkalenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable chairman of the commission. Was it discussed at a committee meeting on the abuse of officials during the President’s electoral campaign? There was no specifics from your report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u14	In the case of violations by officials. You mean past authority, right? So that's the question in the other direction of our work. There will be a report by Ratushní Mikhail Yakovitch on the committee from specific facts, and we will discuss all of this. But we're going to have a broader context -- not just a violation by officials of the past, but we're going to look at what was the violation, what was the concrete response, and what was the basis for taking the measures that were taken. Of course, if necessary, we will invite these officials to do so. I want them to give the right explanation. But this is ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u15	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! I thank you for the information you made today. The commission actually has a subject to work, because what is happening in Ukraine today is nothing more than genocide in relation to, especially, human beings working in local self-government. And when you reported, I didn't hear the direction that the employees of the local self-government are referring to, and where you're going to analyze the materials that are coming. I think that if I'm being heard by local government officials right now, they're sending you materials, because I only got a lot of calls from the Herson area yesterday, when deputy heads of administrations at different levels are being forced to write statements from local government officials without any reason. They open criminal cases and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u17	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u18	This is one of the first ways of doing this is to explore materials about the facts of violations of citizens' constitutional rights at work. It's a violation of the right to work. It's already going to go under this heading. Of course, it's not just a violation of the right to work if what you're saying is confirmed. I can't give grades right now. But of course, a person’s right to be elected will be studied. So if we figure it out, we'll talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u19	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u20	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peckushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u21	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u22	It's a faction of regions, Pecklusenko. Victor Lavrentyevich! I'm a member of the commission, and you as chairman of the first, you have to admit, that's the disgusting work of the commission. The Commission is working disgustingly, starting with organizational issues and ending with the softness with which we work. Therefore, the first question, do you understand what the Wheeler and Rizak will be freed, is only when. And if we work as hard as we do, of course, this process will be complicated. The main thing is to open the system. There is a system in Ukraine today. Please tell me how you work with the prosecutor's office as chairman of the commission, how you work with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, how you react to those letters that you and I have decided to send, and are you prepared as chairman of the commission to transfer the work of the commission on a permanent basis, given.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u23	Right. That's a very good question, especially since you and I are members of the commission we work on. I didn't want to touch any questions about the commission's internal work. You said that. So I'm forced to say more about it. You know, 23 members of the commission, they represent different factions and groups, they represent factions and groups that have one task each other, they have another task. These are political forces that are represented. And they act accordingly. And during the session, you remember when we specifically discussed the issue of the release of Reznikovich, it was clearly seen as who led the line. So I want to emphasize once again: until there's a law on the Temporary Investigation Commissions, we can't force a specific MP to work, sit down, throw everything away. You see. Besides sitting in plenary meetings, he works on the committee, he goes to the district, he does his work when I go to him, say, and he's in the district at this time, he's going to go to the committee and so on. I'm not talking about these things anymore. So it has to be defined that if he is a member of the Temporary Commission, more than that, he has to be relieved of all other duties, he has to work every day, only to do so. It's got to be. If I don't have another tool, I refer to everyone as a colleague. So what? Responsibility must be political, there, just human. And with regard to addressing, let's say, these officials. Well, I offered you today, let's do this together, we'll go, meet Kolesnik, we'll have to meet the officials. We don't have another tool except to ask them to make deals and date them. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't take a fist, and what's going to happen? There's something else we can do. But we have to have a legal basis. We'll do it all. But this will depend on how these officials react, and they should have the tool that we need to act on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u24	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u25	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, you are as an intellectual and beautiful analyst, I think you are well aware that those processes and phenomena that are happening today are a product. As a result of the fact that Ukrainian society has proved to be unconsolidated after the elections, the wall on the wall today is being fought by often-thinously antagonistic political forces. Do you not think that this can be overcome when consensus becomes dominant when the consolidation of society becomes dominant for all political forces? A. And "b." A statement from the People’s Party was read yesterday. In this regard, a statement on the actual misunderstanding of convention delegates, conference delegates, as if in the 37 years that go by the heads of district administrations, and so on. Don't you think there's another branch to be done to your committee on political parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u26	Thank you. That's what we need to think about in these directions right now, one question, the other question right now. I'm answering the second question right now. Maybe in some direction that we have, we can do it, but we need the materials to come. Because we have to actually push something away is the first thing. And as for the first one, you know, while the commission is working, I'm trying to stay away from some grades, let's say, yes, you do. But I can still say that, of course, I had hope, and I have hope, and I think it's actually coming true, that we're going to achieve this kind of solidarity in society that you're talking about in not 60 years, as let's say there's a call between the Soviet army and the UPA. And right now, we need to consolidate society, no matter what pink, orange or white, we need a society to be the only one. Because tasks are extremely difficult, and they need to be tackled by the social efforts of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u27	Mikola Eutychyevich Melnik faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u28	Mikola Melnik. How do you feel about arresting those or Kolesnik today whether it's better not to start this job with Kuchma and his team from the top, arrest them and then cut off their heads, and continue this work. And now I'd like to give the floor to John Boko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u29	I don't think we should answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u30	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! I'm a supporter of cleaning up our society from the bushland, and in that sense, I'm willing to support the measures of power on this issue. But I do not want these issues to be solved in a repressive way. And so I would like to draw your attention to the illegal release of the Director-General of the National Museum of the Name of Shevchenk, who has the status of the scientific institution of the great scientist Sergey Galchenk, under the personal authority of the President. I think it's a direct violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u31	Please, we need material. It was at least a statement so that we could use some extra material and start in this sense of work in this direction. Sergei Galchenko, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u32	Thank you. And the first question is, what did Mikola Melnik ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u33	I don't think I should answer it, I think he answered it himself. He didn't ask for an answer, I think he was sure of it, he was saying it, not asking for an answer from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Rules, let's get this over with. Dear colleagues! We have also fulfilled this arrangement. Now we have to make the next decision. I want the national deputies to be invited to the session room so that they can take a personal part in the vote. That's the decision I'm about to make, my dear colleagues. We will draw it up by decree, because it is our agreement that has just been reached at the Conciliation Council: "Listen to the report of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen on June 1, 2005." Second position. Invite the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Commissioner for Human Rights, to take part in this matter. Third. The Commission shall make proposals on the procedure for dealing with the matter in accordance with the Rules. No warning? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[11:38:21]] For-360 Decision taken. I'm asking the secretariat to form a decree. Dear colleagues! At 2:15 a meeting of the Conciliation Council will be held with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior on the third floor. I only ask for the heads or authorized MPs and factions. So all the agreements we've reached have been implemented. Let us move on to the relevant schedule. Dear colleagues, we had a question here about the election of a deputy chief of the Supreme Council. I held consultations with the candidates for this position, due to the political circumstances that we have in the session room, they ask that we move this issue to the next plenary week, when we have more understanding in the session hall. No warning? I won't. Yes, the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies is under consideration. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u35	Thank you. On April 25, Ukrainian national deputy Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyyovich filed an application with the Supreme Council for the term of office of ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to the requirements of part one of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputy, the Committee introduces a draft Decision on the Cessation of the Powers of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Matviyenka, for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u36	A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Matvienka Anatolia Sergiyovič is put to the vote. Registration number 7509. Please vote. [[11:40:47]] For 339
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u37	The decision has been made, please go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u38	The committee considered and supported the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Vasilovich, on the time-limiting submission of parliamentary powers in connection with his appointment as First Deputy Secretary of State of Ukraine. The committee introduced a project on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vasjunik, for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u39	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Ivan Vasilovich. [[Registration number7510]] Please vote. [[11:41:50]] For 359 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u40	The committee was also discussed yesterday and supported by a statement by National Deputy Bulba Stepanovich about the timeliness of his parliamentary powers in connection with his appointment as Head of the Poltavian District Authority. It is submitted, Your Honor, to your consideration of the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of Powers of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Bulba. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Bulby Stepanović is being voted on. [[Registration number 7511]] Please vote. [[11:42:58]] For 349 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us thank our colleagues with whom we have worked for three years in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Yesterday, the Supreme Council was instructed by the Committee to provide today information on non-compliance by Ukraine's individual people's deputies with the requirements of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. I'm ready to brief you now before we consider another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u43	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Today, respected colleagues are combining their positions with other activities of 29 national deputies. Until recently, there were 34 of them. The first point is that you and I have just discontinued the authorization of three colleagues — Matthew, Vasilyuk, Bulby. On May 16, the Supreme Council reached a decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 11 May of this year on the suspension of the powers of Ukraine’s national deputies Bondar, the head of the Volin District State Administration, and Stojak, the head of the Ternopil District State Administration. On the other hand, the committee was discussed at the meetings and recommended to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the 22 people's deputies to the court on March 21st, I stress that a decision had been taken by the committee corresponding to 22 of these national deputies on March 21st. On April 25, after three more national deputies, the committee made the appropriate decision on the recommendation to the Chief of the Supreme Council. That is, such decisions were made by the committee regarding 25 national deputies. The Supreme Council was headed by external appeals to the Kyiv Court of Appeal for 20 Ukrainian national deputies. The deadlines for court proceedings are now set. Regrettably, many times now, the consideration of these issues and the adoption of relevant court decisions are being carried over for various reasons, except for the two colleagues I spoke of -- Bondar and Stoyk, for which positive decisions have been made on the outside of the statements of the Head of the Supreme Council. The statement concerning the national deputy of Ukraine Turkinova of May 17, that is, from the day before yesterday, is in the course of the trial. The trial of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Dustenka has not yet been filed. Since May 6, the Supreme Council head also has three more national deputies to consider. This means Boyko Viktor Alexiyovich, head of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve, Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich, head of the Dnipropetrov Oblast and Taraszuk Igor Grigorovich, head of the State Administration. The deadline for sending the materials to court has passed. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee, we discussed questions about the Ukrainian National Deputies: Catherinek Mikli Dmitrovitch, the first deputy head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich, head of the Government of the State Export and Import Bank, Seminouc Valentina Petrovna, head of the State Property Fund, Shevchenka Vitalija Fedorovic, head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Affairs on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with their activities in positions of office. We turn or turn to them, more loyally, asking them to determine where they might continue to work. The committee didn't get an answer from them for almost a month. So yesterday, the committee decided to refer the Supreme Council to the Chief of Staff with an invitation to send appropriate external applications to the court. With regard to the national deputies of Ukraine, Gurbitz and Pavlük, who, by the way, was appointed head of the Odessa Seaport.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u45	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u46	What? The corresponding letters were also sent with a request to these national deputies to determine the position in which they would be expected to continue to work. After that, honourable colleagues, questions about them will be discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! It's not a question we're talking about. Please, let's work. Here's a question, dear fellows! Oh! Wait a minute! I'm going to give you some information now that you've been here so you don't have any questions. Yesterday I received a letter from the head of the Kyiv City Court of Appeal because there is a variation. I read: "The Court of Appeal of Kiev reports that the implementation of the Kyiv Court of Appeal on May 18, 22 I emphasize, statements by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvina Vladimir Mikhajlovich, on the timely termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies, two of which were considered essentially with satisfaction of the requirements. Including these statements, i.e. documents, Dusty and Turkey, to remove all of the stuffing. As for the three applications I received from the committee, I signed the application yesterday and today. He said that these documents were being sent because we had to pay the taxes, get the proper documents. It's for everyone's paperwork, don't think I just took the list and sent it. Here's a document I read to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u49	Three minutes, questions, please. Sign up. Mikhailo Pojinov, faction of "Our Ukraine"
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u50	Mikhailo Zyjinov, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter! Why do you react selectively to those from whom you want to withdraw your parliamentary authority? There's a city head Poltava Kukob's name doesn't ring here, there's the head of the VAT government, the metal combination of the name Ilić - Vladimir Semenovich Boyko, and there's no question. Why such selectiveness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u51	I thank, well, first of all, no sampling in the approach to solving this problem at the Rules Committee has ever been and will never be. That's what you respected colleagues know. As for Kukoba's colleague, in particular, we received it, and if I'm not mistaken in 2003, the decision of the Poltava City Council to terminate his mandate as a city head. That's a different problem. A problem that concerns, especially if you want the State Building Committee to decide why there are no elections to date for the city head of Poltava. And this is absolutely innocent of the Rules Committee. So I ask you to ask these questions more correctly of you as a colleague. The other one. With regard to Vladimir Semenović Boyko, no statement was made to the committee regarding the compatibility of their position in the Illić Congregation and the performance of the duties of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u52	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u53	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Please give the word to my colleague, Mr. Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u54	Sergei Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Valentina Georgievic, well, what's going on is a disgrace, it's understandable. But it was not yet in the history of the world that when the head of the security service openly violated the Constitution, it was secret and openly not. But I think that the constitutional and the Supreme Council's capabilities are exhausted in this regard, but they are far from being exhausted from the President; it can prevent a violation of the Constitution by one piece of the pen. Maybe we should think about it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that's what you're talking to, the Supreme Council to the President. If we cannot put an end to this disgrace within a few days, if we are forced to engage in the judicial fibula, it can stop it by removing all our colleagues, whether it is colleagues from their positions, which they are now illegally engaged in as members of the people. How do you view this proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u56	Thank you, Sergei Petrovich. Yes, indeed, this issue could be resolved by the President of Ukraine, I think it is very simple and should have been resolved long ago. Moreover, I have already, if I am not mistaken, informed the Supreme Council for the fifth time in this rostrum that such a large number of people's deputies are combining their activities with those of the highest public authorities. This, of course, does not beautify them, and of course the constitutional guarantee should have long-standing decisions concerning officials who have gravely violated the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Unfortunately, however, Sergey Petrovich, as you recall, in the previous plenary week, I have raised the question of sending a "deputy request to the President of Ukraine to take the necessary steps to determine the order or solution to this problem". Sadly, however, my offer was supported by only two hundred, if I am not mistaken, of the nine national deputies. That's it. That's why I sent the MP's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the answer has not yet come from the Prime Minister. I hope that after today, the President of Ukraine will listen to our problems and resolve this issue in the near future, especially since yesterday, as I was informed by the committee of the Ukrainian President's secretariat, they have invited papers on all the absolute accomplices of the government officials assigned to these positions by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u57	I ask the secretariat to prepare an invitation to the President with the President's invitation to intervene in this matter as the guarantor of the Constitution, to make appropriate decisions. Dear colleagues, then a lineup, let's finish our consideration of the matter. The issue of the election of individual Ukrainian National Deputies as members of the Committees and changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Please, Valentin Grigorovich. We agreed that we'd finish up and the committee head would come out of the podium, and then there'd be a lineup. Well, it's not comfortable, it's on the newsstand, and we're talking. We made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee meeting yesterday saw the statement by National Deputy Tkalenka Alexander Sergiyyovich, a member of the Ukrainian MP's faction about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council for the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption. The calculated quota for our Ukrainian MPs on the committees for today is 3.6. The committee is composed of two representatives of this faction, the National Deputies Stretovic and Trofimenko, i.e. the quota has not been used. The committee decided to support the application. Therefore, a draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Tkalenka as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the national deputy Tkalenka Aleksandra Sergiyyovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7512]] Yes, please vote. [[11:59:01]] For 229 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee will consider a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Alexander Volodymyrovic, a member of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment. [[united]] The calculated quota for this parliamentary faction on committees, parliamentary committees, is 0.9. In this committee today, none of the representatives of this faction are working, that is, the quota is not used. The committee has supported the statement made by the People's Deputy Kiselova and is introducing a draft decree on the election of the People's MP Kiselova as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on economic policy, governance of the people's economy, property and investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u61	Yes, honourable colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7513, on the election of Ukrainian national deputy Kiselova Alexander Volodymyrovic as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment. Please vote. [[12:00:48]] For 251 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u62	Thank you. The committee also considered the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Lápina Ksenia Mikhailina, a member of the "Our Ukraine" delegation to elect her as a member of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Given that this committee now has two representatives of this faction, the quota is not fully used, a proposal is made to support the statement made by the National MP. This is why it is decided to elect a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leapina Kseniya Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u63	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7514 on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leipzig Kseniya Mikhailna, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. [[12:02:15]] For 222 Yes. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, For -222, no decision is made. Yes, in order to return to the draft decree, registration number 7514 on the election of a member of the Committee of the Lyapina Xenia Mikhailuna. Please vote. [[12:02:46]] For 221 I ask then the Factions' leadership to consult the factions on this matter. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u64	We are also asked to apologize by the Committee for the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ulyanchenko Vera Ivanovna, a member of the "Our Ukraine" MP for electing her as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. The faction quota in this committee is not fully used. There are now three factions of the faction -- Djemilev, Chubarov and Vudovenko. Therefore, a proposal is made by the Committee to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Ulyanchenko. A draft decision of the Supreme Council on this matter is available to you, dear fellows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u65	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7515, on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Ulyanchenko Vera Ivanovna as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and international relations is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:04:19]] For 260 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u66	Yesterday was also discussed by the Committee of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Stepan Antonovich, a member of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine. Given that the calculated quota of our Ukrainian delegation, I remind you once again, today is 3.6. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council has one representative of this faction, or quota, not used. The committee supported the statement made by the National MP and introduced a draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Dawimuka as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7516, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Davimuka Stepan Antonović, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for National Security and Defence is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:05:57]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on parliamentary hearings is being announced for consideration. Excuse me. Boyko Volodymyr Semenovich, turn on the microphone. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u68	I want to answer Mr. Pojinov. In fact, I worked and worked both in the combination and here in the Supreme Council. I am indeed working for the benefit of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine, and I have never denied it. Mr. Zhižinov over four years of work, the mayor covered everything he could: he bought all the shops, the department store. We got him out of there like I don't know who. One to eight. We voted more than ever. The queues were before they could not vote on the entire people of Mariupol. Today it appears as a representative of the President. Mr. Zjirov, don't embarrass yourself, please, with the image of the new President, don't pretend to be trusted to represent the Donetsk region because the people of the Donetsk region will never accept you. That's what I said and said. That's why. And start your day from six o'clock in the morning, and see the Era and what is said in prayer. That's where it all says right. I've never responded to evil.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u69	Yes, dear colleagues, just one thing, if you'll excuse me, is that we don't have the people of the Donetsk region, is just the Ukrainian people. A draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the preservation of historical oblivion and the border is being announced for consideration. The city of Kiev's natural environment in 2005. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Peter Petrovich Toloczko He's on a mission. Please, from the committee. You don't? Then let's put this document to a vote? Dear colleagues, this is a draft decree, registration number 7056, to hold parliamentary hearings on the preservation of the historical and natural environment of Kiev. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. Please vote, Your Honor. [[12:08:42]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We're looking at the "The City of Sevastopol" Act. This is a rereading of the first reading. 3 bills: 3187-1, 3187-3, 3187-4. Rapporteurs of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Rabbit, Player, and Bespallian. Dear colleagues, let's set this regulation to three minutes' notice, a discussion that we're voting right now, right? Well, it's called for consideration. Reporters for 3 minutes and 10 minutes for discussion and decision-making. Victor Alexanderovich Bunny is there? Victor Alexanderovich, please, three minutes. Dear colleagues, I ask you to work extremely hard for us to make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, comrades of colleagues! Dear Sebastopols! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 9 December 2003, I am submitting your attention to the draft Law on the City of the Hero of Sevastopol for re-reading. The draft was finalized taking into account the comment of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of 16 June 2004 and the invitation of the People's Deputies to make a statement during the first reading discussion of the draft. The need for the adoption of the law follows from the provisions of articles 118 and 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provide for the local self-government of the executive branch in the town of Sevastopol. The concept of the bill is to be fully reinstated, self-government in the city, taking into account the state status, which is due to its cultural, economic, administrative and territorial characteristics, as well as to the fact that it is based on the territory of the Ukrainian naval forces and the Black Sea fleet. The bill provides for local self-government in the town of Sevastopol in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The law enshrines the right to participate in the direct elections of the City Head, the City Council, which is fully in line with the requirement of the European Charter and local self-government. Nine years after the adoption of the Ukrainian Constitution, only the adoption of the law can restore the constitutional rights of the Sebastopols to the administration of the city under the powers provided for in Ukrainian law. Which has become an inalienable right for all Ukrainian citizens. With the characteristics of local government in Sevastopol, the law provides for the execution of the Sevastopol State Administration, the mandate of the executive body of the City Council, the reconciliation of the positions of the City Head, the President of the City Administration, and the appointment of the President of Ukraine. The project retains powers for executive bodies, rural, rural, urban councils, rural and urban heads in settlements within the administrative boundaries of the city of Sevastopol, which is consistent with the Ukrainian Local Self-Government Act in Ukraine. In order to fulfil the functions of providing for the general public status of the city of Sevastopol, additional powers are provided for the city council and city administration. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, believes that this bill can be adopted as a basis for first reading. During the preparation for second reading, it is considered appropriate to adopt recommendations under part 1 of article 1 and the special powers of the city administration have also excluded the rules limiting the concept of the central authorities of Ukraine. Also consider the recommended amendments, the comment of the people's deputies made during the present hearing. In April-May this year, you were approached by members of the City Council, the Municipal Organizations of the People's Party, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party, the Party of the Regions, the Labour Ukraine, the Single Ukraine and the Social Democratic Party. [[Joint]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u71	Half a minute, please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u72	Affirms that the draft proposed law expresses the interests of the unity of the Sewastopols, the authorities of self-government and the political forces of the city. Dear colleagues! Political factions leaders, Sevastopols count on your support and call for the right to self-government to be voted in favour of the law of reinvigorating them. Today you have to vote, more than 4,000 Sebastopols listening and watching our meeting, believing and hoping to live in the rule of law. The adoption of this law will and will solve many of the problems that today have arisen between the inhabitants and the authorities, the authorities and the executive branch. Your vote in favour of the law will accelerate the performance of the public debt before the Constitution of Ukraine and the Cevastopols. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u73	Have a seat, please. It's a replay of the first reading, at least. Please. Dear colleagues! Yes, I understand, but we have no less serious questions. Leonid Ivanovich, please. Boris Yakovich will prepare, next will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u74	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The first thing I want to draw your attention to is that, since 1998, all over Ukraine, in all cities and towns, there is this power that the people choose, except for one single city, the town of Sevastopol's hero. The town of Sevastopol is in power, both the former and the present, in a river regime, which is contrary to both the Constitution and the entire legal field of Ukraine. Second. The factions'Communists, beginning in 1998, introduced a draft Law on the Election of the City of Sevastopol at each session, and, unfortunately, under the pressure of power and the former, he did not currently vote. Third. Thanks to this position of communists and the meaning of the law that was laid down, it was the Zaiczko and Vernidubov MPs' draft that made the changes that he had today, namely, that they did not provide for the election of a city head, in fact, to repeat all the same legal vacchanal that exists today. It was our bill that forced them in a good way to make it closer to the common legal field of Ukraine. And the last. I think that the city of Sevastopol, based on the military-political situation it has today, certainly needs special status. The bills that Zaiczko presented before me, which I am presenting and implying, confirm. In a simpler language, we basically repeat in one bill and another the status granted to the capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. So, I would like to support Rabbit's Bill, if it goes through, and we, the Communist faction, will also support it, so we will solve this problem. If he's not coming through, I'd like to support my bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich, please sit down. Bill number 3187-4 represents Boris Jakovitch Bespalij. Please, Boris Jakovitch, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u76	My fellow dignitaries, I'd like to stop at one circumstance that distinguishes the vision that we came to along with the committee experts and representatives, including the city, from the bill that was presented by Rabbit. We have a rise in everything. But what is Sevastopol today as a region? I'll tell you right now. The Sevastopol region is the city of Inkerman, where there are 11,000 inhabitants, and there must be an Inkerman Miskrad, an Inkerman city head, an Inckerian Mesquink full of local self-government, once. This is a village of a city-type Kacha. There must be a village head, a village council, a village execution -- full-fledged local self-government, two. Next, it's 29 villages, the total population is 22,000. They are united in four silages. So it's normal, just by the number they can be and there they should be, in these pickles full, well, the silage, respectively, full performances and full-fledged rural heads. And that's going to be six organs of self-government. Completely unrelated to each other. What, then, should be in the city of Sevastopol, which is 340,000 inhabitants? There must be a city head chosen by all the city of Sevastopol, but without Inkerman, without Kachi, and without villages. There should be a Sevastopol City Council and there should be a Sevastopol execution, but for 340,000. Such self - government agencies will ensure full local self - government. What difference does it make to the concept of our colleagues? They suggest that Sevastopol’s city’s head be chosen by Sevastopol and Kacha and the villages and Inkerman. Then the question is: For Inkerman, there is no self - control, there is no Kachi, that is, there is a venegret matrix, there is confusion. That's why we think. What, though, should happen in Sevastopol as a region that unites all of this territory? There's no need for a single head, 'cause what he's gonna do. And he's going to fight with Sevastopol's city head, nothing more. Because that's 379,000 people, and that's 340. So the difference is actually the same sevastopol head double two. Why do you need advice? There's no need for a regional council, because if we have only 6 councils, and they have common issues, then we're dealing with Kachay or Sevastopol or with the village councils. Therefore, only state administration should be at the regional level, taking into account Sevastopol’s special status. So let me be clear: and Catherine and I have a project that doesn't match this concept in the process of working on which. So in this case, I'm filming this bill, and as an MP, I'm saying we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u78	Support no project, or it'll be a dead end. Having accepted the first reading, we will work on things that will never work. In two days, literally with the good will of colleagues, we could bring this concept into the Bunny project and implement it. It is not possible to develop its law because another concept of the territorial system is in place. And from the committee one minute as the committee secretary, a completely neutral person is already here. I'm just going to read the committee's decision, because the committee chairman was going to report to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko today. Well, we welcome him as Prime Minister of Crimea, but not as head of the committee. I'll just read it without comment. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the draft laws of Ukraine on the city of Sevastopol, which is the special status of Sevastopol's hero city, and make the appropriate decision. So the committee didn't decide to support any of the projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our discussion. 15 minutes. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens and respected citizens who live in the city of Sevastopol. Unfortunately, the Sevastopol City Act has become a hostage of political forces, each of which wants to be good in front of the Sevastopols. With the permission of the presiding officer, I will switch to Russian so that the sevastopols will understand what I am saying. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know the region of Sevastopol and Crimea, headed from 1994 to 1998 by the High Council for the Study of the Political and Legal Situation in Crimea. And I know that it is difficult to record provisions under which the Sevastopol State Administration is empowered to sign additions to inter-State agreements on the parameters of the Black Sea Division and so on. The Sevastopol Government must address the problems of sevastopols, environmental pollution, the terrible problem that is currently there, job shortages, the problem of lack of adequate water supply and others, and other problems. Can it implement them today, and is there no violation of the Constitution today? Yes, I do. And in all these drafts of the law, the MP Bespaly said quite correctly, there are violations of the law, terrible violations. Balaklava, you've forgotten that this is also a city. Inkerman is also a city in the square of city submission, I'm told by the communists. It's new. Thus, it is found that there is more in Sevastopol than the city of Kiev today. Do you know that or not? Why? Because in Soviet times, the territory of the rural district centres was attributed and decided to manage. The Committee took the right decision. We have rereading. None of the three projects are ready for consideration, none of them are ready, because the rights of residents everywhere are being violated in each of these 29 villages. The rights of 15,000 Inkermans are being violated, and the rights of these citizens to local self-government are being violated. The draft should therefore be returned, and the committee should find a way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u81	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get Chickanova ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Vassili Nadrag, Lugansk region, People's Party. Today, I would like us to understand the situation that we are discussing with you. We are discussing with you one topic: a mature situation that is necessary and probably necessary for both the State and society, and for the inhabitants of Sevastopol, in order for self-government to come to this city. So let's answer that question for ourselves. We are saying that power must be closer to man, and it will be closer to him when he is elected. Any appointed official shall be appointed and dependent on the superior. If we are talking about the development of nationality, we should accordingly ask that self-government, local self-government, if accurate, should develop. Now it's about three bills. To date, we have come to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which says that, in all the problems that exist, it is appropriate to adopt Bill 38.37. 3187-1, to be adopted on first reading, taking into account the inclusion of the best work followed by 3187/3. And, unfortunately for the authors of 3187-4, this bill is rejected. If we do this, we'll be fine. Now about the position of the People's Party, I would like to read out: “The address of the Sebastopol organization of the People's Party to the Head of the People's Party Dept. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Jeremjevo Igor Mironović. Dear Igor Mironovich! The Sevastopol City Organization of the People's Party strongly requests you and the members of the faction of the People's Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft law on the town of Sevastopol, registration number 3187-1 of the Zaic people's representative, which will be considered on 19 May 2005. With respect, the President of the National Party of the People's Party, Anatoly Maksimović Kostogriz.” Dear Anatoly Maksimović, our respectable parties in Sevastopol, the respected Sebastopols! The People's Party's faction in the Supreme Council will support this bill because we believe that the development of local self-government is a task for all, including for parties that say that they are trying and will help the people. Such a party is the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u83	Sergey Volodymyr Ciccanov, a faction of Communists, has the word. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u84	People's MP, Chicanov, Communist faction. Deputies, distinguished Chairman! It is not the first year and not the first year in the Supreme Council that the MP Corps is trying to meet the requirements of articles 118 and 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution concerning the establishment of the status of the city of Sevastopol. And that's not happening over a long period of time. What's the reason? In a number of cases, this problem has led to the speculation of certain political forces against the city, which still has an uncertain status. Clearly, Sevastopol is an independent administrative and territorial unit of State importance, an integral part of Ukraine's territorial system. More to the point, Sevastopol has been, is and will be a city of global importance, with the historical memory of our people. In view of the apparent expansion of the new world order in Ukraine, the actual expansion of the military influence of the aggressive Western bloc, the political situation of Sevastopol is now of paramount importance. That is why it is essential to bring this administrative and territorial unit into the legal field. In general, the paradox of respectable deputies has been the case in these years. We are called upon to comply with the Constitution, one guarantor of the Constitution was, the second guarantor of the Constitution was, and the import is now there. Where? In which country, in which civilized State, the question of establishing the status of a territorial unit, in particular the city of Sevastopol, could be raised for 9 years. Bills that have been drafted by our colleagues are correct. We, the communists, have proposed in our time, in the past, the Zaczesov MP, in this call, the Gracz MP, a bill which we believe is the most fully reflected in the interests that today must be taken into account in the law by Sevastopol citizens and by the city. We would therefore like to say, however, that those bills that have now been tabled. Verni Dubova, Zaička, is also alive and also reflects the issues required to develop local self-government of the city of Sevastopol, the functioning of executive power and their interaction with each other. I believe that if the law were passed and the status of the city of Sevastopol, there were no speculations about the whereabouts of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation today. The people of Sevastopol and the people of Sevastopol can say, "They are waiting for this law, and they want it to be adopted." The Communist faction is ready to support the bill and the Rabbit, and the Grac. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Anatoly Dmitrovitch Grzezhev, a faction of the Socialist Party, will be followed by Oleg Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u86	Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Our faction will support the adoption of the Zaik Bill on the City of Sevastopol. What arguments were there for such a decision? First. The Socialist Party initiated a change of power some 10 years ago and has consistently done so, including at the local level. In our view, the increasing role of local self-government in the socio-economic, political life of the regions is a prerequisite for the democratization of society. There is no other way to address this problem. Second. Article 140 of the Ukrainian Constitution clearly stipulates that the situation of the city of Kiev and Sevastopol in the State is defined by a separate law. As representatives of the supreme legislative body, we must set an example in implementing the provisions of the Basic Law of Ukraine. The proposed bill should therefore be adopted on first reading. And if anyone has any additions, they can be made. There is also the European Charter on Local Self-Government. Third. The town of Sevastopol has been in special status in the Soviet Union for decades, and the inhabitants of the city have become accustomed to this situation and have taken other approaches, such as those, painfully. Thus, if we, the people's deputies, are under an obligation to defend the interests of a particular people. Fourth. The city of Sevastopol is truly a special city according to its history in geographical, labour and combat glory. That is also true, and therefore the citizens of Sevastopol have the right to demand and expect special treatment of themselves. Other arguments could be put forward in favour of the adoption of the Sevastopol City Bill, but I think the arguments cited are sufficient to make a positive decision. The Socialist faction asks you, distinguished colleagues, to reject political ambitions and support the bill. And for the inhabitants of Sevastopol, I will say the following. The Socialist Party of Ukraine has always supported and will support you, and if this support is mutual, our common cause will only benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u87	Oleg Petrov. Do you have Oleg Petrov? I can't see. Then it's Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Ratushny Ukrainian People’s Party The Ukrainian People’s Party divides the position about. And this principle is our position that the role and place of self-government bodies should be higher if we want the interests of the community to be properly represented. But speaking of this, we need to see if the corresponding changes will lead to a kind of opposition that we have seen in the capital of our time, which has not adequately protected the rights and freedoms of the capital’s inhabitants. And this could be transferred -- this is the confrontation between executive power and centralized self-government can be transferred to the city of Sevastopol. The city of Sevastopol is really special to Ukraine, and I really don't know why, just it and Kiev is a hero city. There's a colleague of Carmazin who says quite often that the hero city is also Odessa, and I think that the vast or all of the cities that are in Ukraine have survived World War II twice when the armies have invaded and back have the right to wear that title. I think that the title for Sevastopol alone is some sort of pre-ideological title, but if in fact. I support my colleague Bespalogo's position that Sevastopol is not just Sevastopol himself. This is Inkerman, and Kacha, and other administrative units. If we want to ignore their interests in that draft law on Sevastopol, as both Deputy Bunny and Deputy Grac have suggested, then let's say that we are, to some extent, not defending the interests of local self-government authorities, because they have the same right to local self-government. Yes, perhaps some do so in a city where the Russian Black Sea fleet, which we have seen quite often lately, totally ignores the interests and interstate agreements, and Ukrainian legislation, so that this does not create a precedent, that this dual-ownership will allow the Russian Black Sea fleet to continue to exercise this disqualification, which no one will control, as the Russian Interstate Treaty Fleet does, without even paying the rent and not following environmental legislation. Once again, I say that the Ukrainian People's Party has always stood and will stand behind the interests of local self-government authorities, but it does not see the possibility that this allowed the destruction of the centralised authorities of the state in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u89	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. In accordance with the registration and the order in which they are discussed and considered, I will put them to the vote. The first is the draft Law on the City of Sevastopol, registration number 3187-1, the authors of the National Deputies: Vernidubov and Bunny. Please vote. [[12:37:39]] For 274 Decision taken. We accepted the document as a basis. The factions, please. In general, there is no way to deny it. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communist faction - 51, "Ukraine regions" - 46, National Party - 33, SPU - 26, Block Timoshenko - 6, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDP (o) - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "Industry, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 14, "Union" - 13, non-fractional - 20. Dear colleagues, according to the established rule, we are now considering the election of judges and the release of judges. One minute, Mikhail's microphone, he didn't use a replica. Excuse me, Vasil Vasilovich. Before that, I didn't give up when the charges were made. He's got a right to a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I was surprised by the behavior of Vladimir Seminovitch Boyka, who had his hammocked behavior. I asked the committee head a question. I didn't insult anyone in this room. I mean, my eyes are rolling. Because when you buy a van worth almost three billion dollars for $70 million stolen from the state, that's one thing. And then you keep referring to the people when you organized your own camp leaders, and that's proved by the court. When ballots were shown and the urns did not have 32 percent of the ballots. Sadly, the court’s decision was only in 2002. That a rough election was held in 1998. So here I would like to ask everyone to treat each other with tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's not talk about the combination. You're a national MP here, not a combo. I beg you, Sergey Matviyenko, that's all. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy. Judges present, the head of the Supreme Court. Let's, my fellow Members, demonstrate that we are working in the legal field and effectively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u92	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Fellow dignitaries, the committee considered a large number of candidates for the positions of judges of various institutions. That's about 70 people. So it turns out we are. All were recognized because they were holy. And the committee recommends judges. I'll read you the draft of Decree 7517 first. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first part of article 128 of the Constitution, we propose to elect the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crime Ishchenko Vasil Ivanovich and Melnik Tetjana Alexandrovna; to the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Oxentuk Vasil Nikiforovich; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Babenko Petr Mihajlovich, Sannik's Olen Sergiyevna, Sukman's Nadia Valentinovna; to the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye Region of the town of Víktor Valentinović, Manuilova Yuri Sirafimovich; to the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai District of Paliyuk Vasil Pavlovich; The Court of Appeal of the Sumskie district of Rybalka Volodymyr Grigorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u93	It's about Suma County, isn't it? Let's put a dot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u94	To the Amurnihni-Dniprost District Court of Dnipropetrovska Siromashenko Natalija Volodymyrna; The local Lenin district court of Dnipropetrovska Ostapenko Natalija Georgievna; The local coastal district court of Odessa Korchevny Hennady Valeriyovich; Local Deaf District Court of the Suman district of Sapon Oleg Volodymyrovich; The local Zerupinian district court of the Hersonian district of Zaslavec Natalija Vasilovna; The local Chaplin district court of the district of Kuzmenk Anatolia Dmitrović; The local Suvorov district court of Herson Bork Andrija Leonidovich; and the Lenin district court of Sevastopol, Roman Irina Petrovna. They have passed the Higher Qualifying Commission, are filed by the Supreme Court and passed through our committee. All the questions concerning them were considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we're removing the name of Fisherman Vladimir Grigorovitch, and given this deletion, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. Registration number 7517. Please vote. [[12:43:15.]] For 362 Decision taken. Alexia Malinowski's microphone, please. And to the microphone please approach the fisherman Vladimir Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u96	Thank you. It's a faction of socialists. Vladimir Grigorovich! I'd like to remind all the deputies and especially you of last summer's events when, well, the decisions of the Sumu Courts were, well, disgraceful to the students. I would like to ask you if you were involved in these actions, or if not, how do you appreciate these events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u97	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u98	In no way is he involved in these events. I'm the judge of the civilian chamber. And if you score. It's the press, it's the public, it's time. Time has already given us an estimate. The decisions that have been cancelled have been reviewed. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u99	We can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u100	The committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u101	He is put to the vote to elect a judge on an untimely basis the candidate of the Fisherman Vladimir Grigorovich, the Court of Appeal of Suma County. Please vote. [[12:44:38]] For 269 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u102	Next draft of decree 7518, on the election of judges to the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Corobenko Hennady Petrovich, Macula Grigori Mikolaiovich, Melezik Neonila Ivanovna, Polish Anatoly Grigorvovich. To the Dnipropetroval Court of Appeal, Chus Oksana Volodymyrovna, to the Kyiv Interdistrict Commercial Court, Ribchenko Anatolia Alexiyovich, Sweden, Viktor Aleksandrovitch. To the local court of the city of Kyiv Eudomimov Alexander Valeriyovich and Pinchuk Valerius Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u103	Yes. A grueling microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u104	Eudhoim's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u105	Ah, the name of Eudhokim. Then. That's how. Now you argue when we vote. Dear colleagues, we remove the name Eudokumova Alexandr Valeriyovich from the draft decree 7518, and with this deletion in mind, I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7518]] Please vote. [[12:46:12]] For 342 Decision taken. Mikhail Ratushnoy's microphone, please, and Evdokymov Alexander Valeriyovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u106	I have one question for the head of the profile committee. Vasil Vasilovich, do you have a complaint from the director of the department, one of the central authorities of Ukraine, a doctor of philosophical sciences, a colonel in Larcevo's resignation that Judge Eudokim Alexander Valeriovich beat him up. Is there such a complaint on the profile committee? And there's a question for the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u107	Mr. Mikhailo, we don't have any complaints on the committee, but we discussed this very carefully yesterday. The point is, I don't have any questions for Alexander Valeriyovich Eudochemov as judge. There's really, in Russian, there's some problems in the biting ground with the neighbors. Moreover, this professor, this petitioner, has filed with us on the committee that he has made peace with Yudkoim and he has no claim to it. So yesterday the committee unanimously made a decision and recommended that Eudhoimov serve as judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u108	Please. We need to bet in a minute. Please ask the candidate. The candidate, I understand, is standing on top of the balcony. Please, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u109	Alexander Valeriyovich, in fact when you're being questioned, I understand that this is a problem in court in general, says you're looking at about 140 cases that don't take place for four months. I think you're familiar with the business of the Island Company, the Jupiter Company, the Solsif Foundation Company and others. So please explain why it is such a long delay. And that's because Vasil Vasilovich answered, tell me if it's true that you're preparing a dissertation on the subject of "Ethics of the Relationship of Judges." How, then, are these life - styles related to your future dissertation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u110	Good afternoon! I'm explaining. Therefore, since I have completed my mandate on 30 March this year, it would take two months to deal with cases, so to speak, to date on 18 May, respectively, there are cases that remain, and about as many as the fellow MP has called them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u111	The position of the committee, please, once again, so that we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u112	But the committee does support the candidature. In fact, his authority ended, and it was clear that he could not deal with these matters if the authority was over. So if there are any, there are no other claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u113	A proposal shall be put to the vote. Change the vote. Quick, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u114	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, I'm thinking, if there's a case, even on a bit or on a level of living, it's exactly what it takes to look at that question, even though the judge does fight. I don't think that's exactly the way it should be for us. I don't know how it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the committee's first proposal, and then we'll determine. On the election of Eudemimov Alexander Valeriovich as judge on an indefinite basis, this is the local Master Court of Kiev. Please vote. [[12:50:15.]] For 262 Decision taken. Please proceed with the order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u116	Draft decree 7519 on the election of Cornea Oksana Eduardona as judge of the local district rail court of Simferopol. I have to point out that there was a committee meeting yesterday, and Koroddin Oxan Eduardon didn't get the necessary number of votes from the committee to support it. But I think if you have any more questions, I can answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u117	Zara Katusheva. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! I am aware of the many citizens' appeals, having personally experienced as a citizen, as a human being, as a country in the case of impunity of Judge Karagodina, I believe that she cannot hold a high and responsible position as a judge. It's all about deciding people's fates. I would like to draw your attention to the conclusions reached by the Judicial Qualifications Commission, at least surprised by their formality and write-off to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I believe is evidence of the interest of the judges themselves. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the decision on the absence of violations by Karagodina in the case of the so-called Jeremiah-. decided in the absence and absence of a case itself. In addition to the fibula, which unfortunately is not a procedural breach, there is a clear and deliberate violation of Ukrainian law. A U.S. citizen was not involved in a case where the fate of her property was resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u119	30 seconds, please speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u120	I wasn't even involved in a case where her fate was resolved. That is, her land was shared, including the part where she lived at her home. Judge Karagodina deliberately violated articles 129, 14, 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Article 48 of the Property Act. The Union had not even been able to defend its rights and legitimate interests, and the right to own property had been established for the first time since it had learned of the existence of a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u121	Please, let's listen to Judge Karagodine. 30 seconds, please, more, let's vote an hour you'll be speaking, please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u122	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am very much asking that I be given a final settlement because I will bring in the eerie facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u123	How long do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u124	when the commission failed to give due consideration to the case of Chernov-Sharov. Not to be taken into account that Kara Year's statute of limitations is restored after 23 years. Think about it. Although article 89 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code clearly provides for grounds for restoration. After re-establishing the statute of limitations after 23 years, Karagodina shall take a decision in favour of the person to whom the period is restored. Isn't that proof that the judge is using the case? In the Lapin case, it's the same story. Considered in the absence of a defendant, in the absence of a single appearance, the judge shall decide promptly, promptly, and shall deprive him of his right to defence in all these cases. The notification of the hearing was sent by simple mail. I can tell you, I'm sure they weren't headed at all. I don't think you're going to deny that sending a message to the correspondent magazine isn't a notification. The collective statement of Kurnavin, Tihonova, Suvorukova and other indications of the misconduct of Judge Karagodina in a court hearing, hammish, rudeness against those persons was not stated at all in the decision of the Commission. In addition, the case itself was three years old and was later dealt with on the same grounds because of the subject. A week after my election, I'm a national deputy. How, then, can you defend your laws and rights to those who have not become members of the people? It turns out if I hadn't been elected a national MP, I'd be a bum. Regrettably, my case has disappeared from court and there is only one that has been handed down in my favor. I don't think you care about the fact that I have a third party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u125	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u126	There were threats that I might be better able to pass through Karagodina Hall. Dear colleagues! As my constituents and I personally believe, Karagodina, as a judge, violated the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u127	Thank you, microphone, please. I think we can finish this. Microphone. Please, Your Honor, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u128	What I can tell you is that on December 3, 2004, the Sevastopol County Qualifying Commission reviewed all these complaints, had all these civil, civil matters that had been dealt with in a sublime way, and decided on their decisions. There's nothing else I can do. The decision states that there is no basis for drawing me to disciplinary responsibility. And in no five years did I get involved in disciplinary responsibility. Anything I can explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u129	Vasil Vasilovich, the committee's proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u130	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I said that some of the members of the Committee had abstained and the Committee had not recommended, had not obtained the appropriate number of votes. But
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u131	Yes, Vitaly Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u132	. It's a thought. Have you studied this case?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u133	Thank you, I've said the Committee's opinion, and I have my own opinion to make. I have the respect of my colleague Katushev Zara Hafarovna and the admiration of her temperament. But when I consider the specific fate of a particular person as a judge, I must say that there is absolutely no reason not to recommend him as a judge. Why? There are four cases, civil cases, of which our colleague Katusheva went on one side, because there was a dispute with her ex-husband, about the recognition of the loss of use of the living area of ownership of the house and the partition of the house. So there may be such emotional moments. As to the decision taken by the Commission, the qualified commission of the Sevastopol Appeals District, I asked, here are 14 letters, the Committee asked me to take out all 4 cases and consider them on the Commission. I'll just read the conclusion. Thus, in analysing the above data on the movement of the four civil cases that have been considered by the vote, the chairmanship of Judge Korogodina concludes that the required procedural action was carried out on the matter by the judge in accordance with the requirements of the Civil Procedure Code, based on the nature of civil disputes. The concern of those who took part in the matter was settled, which was discussed in the established order of approval. All of the civil cases listed are completed by means of decisions that have become effective. The trial right of the parties to the dispute to the defendants' judgements and decisions in connection with the determination was exercised without any restriction on the part of the judge. During the work of Korogodina, she dealt with civil and criminal matters of various categories, worked with great effort. Disciplinary responsibility was not involved. There was no complaint about the expulsion of justice or any other matter from natural, legal persons to a qualified commission. So the commission decided to send the relevant materials to the committee, and Korogodina's candidature is supported by the Supreme Court, the Higher Qualifying Commission. Believe me, dear fellows, we have another way out of this than because of the qualifications, we don't have to check all this data. So personally, I don't think we should approach the judge like this. And I personally believe that it is necessary to support the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u134	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko. I see, I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u135	Gurenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Vasil Vasilovich, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you my opinion. It's not really right to talk about the content of the matter when it comes to anyone. More than that, a person who makes a complaint and you reproach him that it was a personal matter. Of course, a number of deputies are immediately set up to view this as a personal matter. I have such an offer, dear colleagues, let's keep it today. the consideration of this matter. Let the committee work again, let it listen more specifically to the comments of the National MP and look again. We have to take into account that the fate of the judge is that each person has his own constitutional rights. And what the judges are doing now, we all know here, sitting in this room. I don't mean a specific candidate. Let's postpone the decision on this issue today and entrust the committee with further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u136	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u137	Thank you. In fact, I would like to say that the committee has worked hard and handed down its verdict, and we have at least the respect of the committee to support the decisions of our colleagues. And I'm talking about this situation, you know, this is really, really hard, because two women, two nice women, they've entered into this dialogue. And I'd like us to support Judge Korogodin in this situation, because I'm sure she'll never confuse herself with the state. Well, unfortunately, sometimes our colleagues do. I'd like to invite the House and the National Deputies to support the judge, give her the opportunity to work, outside of the area where she works, not so cloudless, and there's a judge needed. So I'd like to call for a positive vote now, not to put it away for months. This is what we need today, so let's now define positive, because anyone can then have a claim to a judge. There's no claim to this judge. So I propose a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u138	Swanski, please. Tkalenka, I'm sorry. I didn't see it. Tissue, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the previous speaker, because of all the respectable people who are in front of us right now, I mean the judges. One way or another, such claims may be presented, including considering that the issue that has been raised today has already been examined by higher courts, and one is recommended, I think we have no reason to postpone the case now. So I would urge all my colleagues to support this judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u140	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u141	I, my dear colleagues, only two words of Stanislav Ivanovich. Stanisław Ivanovich, we've exhausted all possibilities for testing. For two years she has not worked as a judge, two years. That's why I think the room should be defined. As for judges who make mistakes, you will see in this room where the committee has just spoken and will not recommend. We approach each judge in principle, but we try to give him an objective assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Since we have different viewpoints here, we will follow the Rules. The committee would like to consider his ruling, so pay attention. I am the first to put to the vote the proposal of a committee to elect Judge Alexandre Eduardo Eduardovna to serve as judge of the local court. Change the vote. Replica, please. Please, the committee has ruled, I'm acting by order. Please. Microphone. Your last name. Katuszevi's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u143	First, the Committee decided not to recommend it for election, once again. The first decision of the Committee was to review the holding of a qualification commission with my participation. I was removed from that inspection. This suggests that the examination was formally carried out, and I was not allowed because I would prove that the judge was insolvent. And she has no moral right to do things for people. I can give you the materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u144	Yes, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, we've had practice here for years. I said the committee didn't get the right number of votes for the recommendation, and you heard that, I repeated it several times. But the formula that we're introducing is to recommend. So you must determine whether to support or not to support her as a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u146	One minute, we've had enough, respectable colleagues. There's the Supreme Council, let him determine. I'm asking you to calm down, dear colleagues. I've been told that it doesn't even matter in accordance with the Rules that the Committee has made, the first vote is the election proposal, and we'll continue to be determined. I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, registration number 7519 on the election of the judge, namely the election of Karagodina Oksana Eduardona as judge of the local district rail court of Simferopol. Please vote. [[13:05:54]] For 238. Decision taken. Please make other decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u147	Draft Decree 7462 on election to: - The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Lomanov Love of Alexandria; - the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Vikhrov Volodymyr Vasilovich; - the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Dougal Svetlana Anatoliyevna; - the Court of Appeal of the Suman district of Kramarenko Valery Ivanovich; - the local Babushkin district court of Dnipropetrovska Romanyuk Marina Markowna; - the local Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Music by Sergio Lazarevich;
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u148	I want to tell you again, I'll explain everything to you, and if you don't do anything, ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, he'll explain it to you. I want to say again, don't push me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u149	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a note by the musician Sergey Lazarovich, to Slaviansky. - to the local Kirov district court of Kirovgrad Djomić Ludmila Mikolayovna; - the local Butchik District Court of Ternopil district of Kuzewich Josif Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we're removing the name of the musician Sergio Lazarovich. And with that in mind, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 7462]] Please vote. [[13:08:02]] For 303 Decision taken. Please proceed with your ruling. Excuse me, Musician Sergey Lazarovich. Who Gives Warnings? Stepan Cloud, microphone, please, and Musician Sergey Lazarovich please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u151	Dear Vasily Vasilovich! Stéphane Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mr. Head! Dear Vassil Vasilovich! The question of the election of the judge of the local court of Musician Sergio Lazarovich disagreed with the responsibility of the Slovenian local court, which is a violation of article 24 on the Ukrainian judiciary. And I didn't understand at all why, as a judge of the Court of Appeal, or higher office, the musician wanted to work in the Court of First Instance?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u152	Please come to the microphone by the musician Sergey Lazarovich. Your answer, the Supreme Council wants to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u153	Dear National Deputies! This question has been under my family for over three years. The older son is ill, so he needs treatment under the conditions of the hospital, and he has no positive effect. Thus, we need to stay in the city of Slaviansk, where we need to be treated. And I wrote a statement about this, asking you, 10 months ago and to this day this question can be resolved. So, I'm asking you to satisfy my claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u154	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, I must explain article 24 of the Law "On the Sudokustide to which Stepan Ilkovich referred. The point is that it does not provide for consent, for a judge to be elected to the appropriate court with the head of the court. In fact, she turned to us in her duties as Judge Orbenko. But it says that after a judge is appointed or elected, he gives only an order. That is, article 24 does not provide for reconciliation. Therefore, there are no other claims against the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u157	The committee supports, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u158	The vote on the election of the Musician Sergio Lazarovich judge is the local Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region. Please vote. [[13:10:56]] For 265 Decision taken. Next order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u159	Draft Decree 7463, which is recommended to choose: to the Donetsk Court of Appeal, Dibrow Galin Ivanovna and Zaporushenko Mikhail Dmitrovitch. The Kyiv Court of Appeal of the House of Chargalo Viktor Ivanovich, Kyiv's interdisciplinary appeal court, Mostov Galin Ivanovna. Odessa Court of Appeal, Sidorenk Mikhail Volodymirovich, The local commercial court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Dadinsk Tamara Viktorovna and Kurapov Zha Illevna. Local Commercial Court of Volin County, Bondarev Sergija Vasilovich The local courts of the Donetsk district.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u160	You missed the Dnipropetrov region.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u161	I'm going to repeat Butko Natalia Vladislavna and Kototova Olga Vasilovna to the local farm court. The Dnipropetrov region is Tatarchuk Volodymyr Aleksandrovitch. The local court of commerce of the Zakarpat region is Tissyna Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Ushak Irina Georgieva. The local courts of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Caterenchuk Lilia Josephovna. The local court of the Kirovograd district - Skibu Grigori Mikolaiovich. The local court of agriculture of the Plain region is Marach Viktor Vasilovich. The local court-martial of the district of Suma is Moisienka Viktor Mikolaiovich, the Vizničenko Olen Jurijovna. The local court of the Kharkiv district of Tkachenka Boris Aleksandrovitch, and the local court of the Cherniewec district of Cnernogus Mikhail Georgievic. Local Commercial Court of the Chernigiv district of Bobrov Yuri Mikolaiovich, Lavrinenko Love Mikolayevna And the local court-martial of Kyiv Mandrichenko Alexander Volodymirovich. Claims, complaints. None. The Supreme Court, the Qualified Commission and the Committee support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u162	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the selection of judges, registered number 7463, is then put to the vote. Please vote [[13:13:20]] For 317 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u163	Draft Decree 7464 concerning Vassek Romana Anatoliyovich is being submitted separately. The committee ordered the election of Vassek Roman Anatoliyovich as judge of the local Ordjonikidzew district court of Zaporozhye. Why did we do it separately? Because the committee also did not support this appointment. There were parliamentary requests from Bastriga, Artemenko, Carmazina, Slybenka, Suprun, Soboljeva, School. A proper test was carried out. The Council of Judges of Ukraine of the district of Zaporozhye was checked and sent to our committee without a conclusion, recommended neither positive nor negative. So the committee should also be appointed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u164	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! In fact, one of those who considered these complaints was me. I came to the conclusion that Vassecki was in grave violation of the Constitution and the legislation in force. In order to give you a sense of the extent of the violations, I'll tell you that I've been drawn to discipline, but after that, even a qualified commission has taken a decision on a recommendation to the High Council of Justice on the application of discharge as a judge on 12 June 2003. It was back then. What do you think man has concluded? I'll read you the conclusions I've made. Some were dismissed by the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal. In the original language: “The egregious fact of the case, contempt of the Constitution, violation of a number of requirements of criminal procedure law, the European Convention on Human Rights approved by the judge of the local Ordzhonikidev District Court of Vasseckim, led to an unjustified train, the abolition of the procedure
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u166	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u167	I'll finish the quote. “It has led to unjustified trains and the abolition of a procedural document in the form of violations of substantive procedural law, rather than violations of both the rights of the citizen of Burov and the interests of the State.” And there were so many of these things in the work of this judge. That's why, the Committee, after examining that the judge of the local court had accepted a complaint, which of the cases the household court was to consider, apparently having some interest, otherwise
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u168	What did you say? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u169	So, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Committee has decided not to recommend this judge. And unfortunately, we have such a form that this committee is preparing a ruling, but we need, today, all the judges we've confirmed, all the good, normal ones, I wish them success. This man, let him try himself on another field. I ask my colleagues not to vote, of course, for this candidacy. It's literally different, people from different parties, there's no bias in any party or professional. Here
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u170	Thank you. Anatoly Domansky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u171	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I attended a meeting of the Committee. What am I trying to say? Those forces who have come into executive power today want to bring partitions to the walls of the Supreme Council. Who did you vote for, who did you campaign for? And today, who did you judge? If you've sentenced five years not to those in power today, then you can't be a judge. The second case, which Judge Vasecki has not contested, has not been dismissed by the Supreme Court. Yuri Anatolyevich, if you're a lawyer, be honest. Where it relates to millions of dollars, where he judged and sentenced not those who are in power today. Is that why he can't be elected a judge? I'm talking to my colleagues, this is a decent judge, and we need to support her. And Vassili Vasilevich, you have to say that the check showed that nothing that the MPs had challenged was confirmed in the verification. It's all been noted that it was. I ask my colleagues not to allow themselves to be brought here to the Supreme Council Hall and discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u172	Bastrian microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I would not like to agree with the opinion of my previous colleague, who casts a shadow on all judges there. There is no need to accuse here; it is simply Mr. Vasecki's unique judge for our Ukraine, who has taken responsibility very seriously: to sign sentences instead of an economic court that relate to hundreds of millions. That is, he banned the State Property Fund and the Ministry of Industry from demanding investment commitments, he intervened in the landfills that go to Zaporozhye on, you know, where Zaporoztalmetal and Dne.stal and many, many others. The judge was therefore considered on a committee of profile, which I think is two or three times. There's a huge, huge piece of work on it. Therefore, our proposal does not support, let it go, seeking other work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u174	Baburin, Communist faction. Microphone. Baburin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u175	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. I respect Ivan Mikhailovich Bastrigu. The only thing I'm going to say is that the trouble of this judge is that, at such a young age, he was left with such unpleasant, extensive cases: dumps, combinations and any decision of the Vassets would still not have worked out for him. Therefore, on a large scale, if we decide today and do not recommend him as a judge, I think that would be unfair. The young one, and the committee in principle, did not have such significant comments, let us say. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Judge Vasecko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u176	Please, Vasecki, how do you appreciate the criticism you gave and the warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear National MPs, all these facts that were put forward by Deputy Carmazin, with all due respect, they did not find their confirmation during the repeated, systematic checks on my work. And he knows that perfectly well. All my decisions on this issue remained unchanged with the courts of appeal and the Supreme Court, the appeals agencies and the Supreme Court. As he put it, I did not rule between legal persons. And that's what the test showed. So I'm asking you very much to take into account that for today, I consider myself not to be drawn to disciplinary responsibility. I have positive characteristics. The quality of the work, the statistical, blind statistics, as they say, the quality of my work, the quality of the performance higher than the average statistics in the Zaporozhye region. So I ask you very much to support me and to select a judge on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u178	The committee, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u179	I said that the committee did not support Vassecki for this position. We came out of the fact that really Vassick was a pretty literate lawyer. Such judges are rarely found in Ukraine. And what was even more surprising was the position that Vassecki had taken to his handling of cases that should have been dealt with by the courts. There are conclusions from the district's qualifications. And about that, in general, about his release, and they were headed for the High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice did not make a decision just because the terms had been confused. That's why you're here. I've given you the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We have a decision to make here in the session room. I'd like to say once again that there's no offense: when there's a draft decision, even a negative one, and the conclusion of any committee, we always prepare the first one -- to take the basis. Well, that's practice. If an unconsenting MP had made a draft decision on the non-admissibility of the project, we would have voted first on the draft decision on non-admissibility. I understand, but it's up to the Supreme Council to decide that they can be seen. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote the draft Decree on the election of Vassek Roman Anatoliyovich as judge of the local Ordjonikidev district court of Zaporozhye. Please vote. [[13:24:27]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Yes, please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u181	Draft Decree 7465 on the release of judges. Pursuant to article 85, paragraph 15, of the fifth part of article 126, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 43 of the Law on the Status of Judges of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: to dismiss the Supreme Court judge, Ms. Aleksandra Antonović, in relation to the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Manjous Valerius Andriyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye District Kravtsov Pavel Georgievovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Izumi District Court of Kharkiv District of Porchun Tamara Grigorovn in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Nahimov of the District Court of Sevastopol, Mikola Pavlovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents him from continuing his duties. The committee considered the application of the High Council of Justice regarding the release of these judges and found no basis for pressure on anyone, any other motive from which they were released. So there's a committee proposal to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, if there are no objections, comments, then the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number, is put to the vote. Change the vote. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, reverend Vasil Vasilovich! I would like the state to learn to thank people when they retire. As a small example, Judge Manges Valérie Andriyovich twice applied for the title "Deserved Lawyer of Ukraine". They didn't. Maybe we'll at least learn to thank people when they've served 30-40 years honestly, and we'll thank these people first, and then we'll make decisions about letting them go. I think they can hear me both in the Presidential Administration and now. Maybe the old president didn't like the same Manges for some reason, maybe the new president would. I'd like to learn to thank these people. And, Mr. Head, I ask you to thank the people on your behalf as one of the leaders of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u184	Thank you for such a fine offer Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges, registration number 7465, is being put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:27:37]] For-300 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u185	And the final draft of the ruling, Honorary Colleagues, 7466, on the release of Pisarenko Anatolia Alexandrovich from the post of judge of the Lower Góra District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for violating the oath. The committee reviewed the application of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine and supported this release. I would like it to be heard throughout Ukraine, that judges with more than 200 civil cases have been in the process of more than 6 months, over 600 cases -- over 1 year, over 200 cases -- have no moral right to hold these positions for more than 2 years. That's why we gave the principle evaluation at the committee meeting yesterday, and we're asking you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the dismissal of the judge, registration number 7466, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. What? What? [[13:28:55]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to offer you your sincere thanks to the judges who went to a well-deserved rest, honestly and loyally served long hours in the positions of judges, as well as to welcome the judges that we have decided today to appoint their judges on an indefinite basis. Orzhachowski, microphone, please. Anatoly Orzhachowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I join in the greetings of the judges, whom I have been elected on an untimely basis today. But I do have a future problem with questions to ask the head of the committee. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, we have repeatedly heard in this room, we know the situation in places where judges assigned to positions allow countless violations of laws and jurisprudence. Does your committee have specific suggestions? How can justice be achieved in the future, protect citizens, and determine accordingly whether or not a judge can do so? Maybe you could say, here's the whole discussion that we had in the hall today, it's probably the underdevelopment of our joint, including the judicial administrations in the regions, because we're being forced to vote here like blind kittens. Why not involve the deputies at the regional level to participate in the discussion of a judge when he is submitted for approval to the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u188	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich, so let me propose that we save time. A very correct question, let us see that the committee remembers every national MP who is assigned, elected, and what practice of issuing warnings or punishments against judges so that the MPs know. And the second. And proposals for participation in the early stages of the National Deputies in the preparation of these issues are no longer just on the Committee but, for example, at the local level.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u189	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we're going to do this, I'm just going to say two words, that we're now developing changes to the Suicidal Act and the status of judges there, dozens of proposals, and I think at this session we're going to be improving the mechanism, including the responsibilities of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law on the ratification of the agreement and the free trade between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova is under review. I want to remind you that we've been looking at this document. In his time, he was not supported. Following the change of the Cabinet of Ministers, a re-examination took place and a document for ratification is being submitted today. Perhaps we will now vote on it, since we have discussed it. Please, I ask the deputy's report, if there are any questions, please ask me a question, please, Coastal Andriy Viktorovich, Deputy Minister of Economics. Please record for the question three minutes. We have a lot of work to do, and I'd like to ask you quickly, please, Yuri Carmazin, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Please say free trade agreements. Because they disrupt and threaten the economic security of the state today. Do we have any calculations as to what will happen when wine, grapes, apples are free to go to Ukraine, all that we have in the Odessa region and in other areas that will happen? Do we need to make any warnings, since there is a warning already that the agreement will take effect from the moment of Ukraine’s entry into WTO? That's why I'd like to do the math. How much will this cost the Ukrainian peasant, say, and all the Ukrainian people as a whole, and how do we protect our interests in this regard? So we don't just have to go to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! In terms of economic analysis and trade balance, all of the agreements we have today in the countries of the former USSR, which are, by the way, and Moldova, working for Ukraine, we have a positive balance, except for the Russian Federation, where the balance is negative, you know, because it's energy-borne. If you take goods from an agricultural group, high-value goods in a metallurgical, machine-building complex, light industry, you have a positive balance. And if you look at trade with Moldova, a positive balance is that, in principle, about balancing in the future, even when this agreement becomes effective just from Ukraine's entry into WTO, it's such a fantastic forecast. We have a positive balance of hundreds of millions of dollars with Moldova. And plus the social machinery, the free trade within the STO allows us to effectively protect our manufacturer in conditions and mass imports, and unfair competition, dumping and in some other cases when it comes to the need to balance raw materials for agriculture. So, honourable national MPs, in this context of the Free Trade Agreement, are benefiting from this format that is now in existence. Your question is right, but there are economic mechanisms here to protect both the peasant and the agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u193	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u194	Vladimir Mikhailovich, give Masenka my word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u195	Alexander Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u196	Thank you. Olga Petrovna. Your Honor, I have such questions and clarifications to you, but here's the title of the bill. Draft Law on Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova. Well, it turns out they're trading the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Moldova. Well, can't you write a headline so much more literately that I can even understand, because I'm looking, a lot of people will support me, and they don't understand what this deal is. I think we should rewrite it anyway. And yet by supporting Karmazin here, I want to say that you're not perfect enough to answer the question: why are we making such an important deal under the WTO? Why we cannot freely trade on our own but simply become dependent on one’s own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u197	Thank you for your question. The thing is, right now we have a free trade agreement with Moldova signed in '96. But the point is that Moldova is already a member of the WTO. Ukraine enters and plans to implement all mechanisms, standards, and rules of the Soviet Union in the near future. So this new agreement, it improves the old agreement, it fully introduces WTO standards by content, in fact, without changing the format of our trade relations. And that's my answer to your second part of the question. With regard to the free trade agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova, as a name. Of course, we have a traditional way of forming. A deal between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the government, for example, a country about free trade. The content is editorial, well, I mean, maybe a mistake, but it doesn't really change the content of the agreement. And so I'm asking you very much: we're going to take this into account in our next job.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u198	Thank you. Please sit down. Time's up. Sit down. Let's write it down, my dear colleagues, because here the people who worked on it, they don't read, they just sign. We're going to introduce an amendment, really, that they said, a deal between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on free trade. Then it'll all be clear. Please, from the committee, the first deputy head of the Oleg Grachev Committee. If you have any questions, please write it down. Three minutes to ask, please. Yuri Carmazin. Dear colleagues, we still need to consider the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u199	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to ask you a question like that. Transnistria is de jure, but not de facto, because you know that there's your border, your military force and so on with part of Moldova. Nowhere in this covenant is there a word about Transnistria. I want to remind you that by 1960 almost 70 percent of the villages of Transnistria had been in Ukrainian, which tells us how many indigenous peoples of Ukraine live there. This has been forgotten and forgotten by both the then and then government of Ukraine, and today’s government does not know it at all. I would like to hear clearly how the interests of Ukrainians living in Transnistria are being protected and how this affects this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u200	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the deputies to the fact that the remarks made by Deputy Masenko made by our committee last year. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has seen how fair this observation is, and as the deputy minister has said here, the following will not be allowed to do so. With regard to the question of Yuri Carmazin. This agreement is not a covenant for the protection of the rights of some ethnic groups there, including Ukrainians living in Transnistria. As you know, the authorities in Kishenev are spreading throughout the Republic of Moldova, including Transnistria. De jure. Right now, you know, there's a lot of effort being made to solve this conflict, so to speak, by the way that all sides would. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u201	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u202	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Oleg Aleksevic, we remember very well how the agreement on free trade between Moldova and us has been in place for many years. And how much we've had in terms of scrap metal. Today, Moldova is indeed one of the consumers of the quarry, the “Fisheries” factory. But what it's become a transit recently, through which, thanks to this, so to speak, the "fort" that was opened in the free trade zone, we're pumping out tens, hundreds of thousands of tons of scrap that are going through Moldova inexplicably. And all of our actions that we've done here in the scrap-export room, in order to set up the scrap-trade order, they're unfortunately breaking down, we're going to talk about the reef. Therefore, I strongly ask before voting in favour of this agreement, we must clearly write out, there is a need for a "fish" in some amount of scrap for their metal combination. They have their own turnover, so to speak, which they use, they have collectibility within the state, and that's what they import. At least limit yourself to that amount. Otherwise, trade is free, but we will turn it into a transit corridor, through which we will literally suck up the entire commodity base to date in the steel industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u203	Thank you. I support your point of view that you expressed when you asked the question. But I would like to recall that this agreement enters into force after Ukraine joined the world trade organization. The Republic of Moldova is already a member of that organization. That is why I think there is time to settle these issues between economic actors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u204	All right, time's up. Please. Dear colleagues, what are we going to do? Well, they insist. Give me 10 minutes then. Well, they insist on performing. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u205	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I address you! Do you enjoy being deceived? Now I have heard from this rostrum the answer to my question that there is no problem, no economic damage to the state. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues notes that, in the event of ratification of the said agreement, the taking of effect of the agreement will exacerbate the conditions for functioning, first of all, of domestic producers of liquor and wine products, compared to those in force under the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Free Trade ratified by the Ukraine Act of 23 April 96. In the opinion of the bill, the committee decided that the bill was to be drunk on the formation of the income part of the State budget and warned that it was not appropriate to adopt it. Why didn't I hear it here from the rostrum by a government official? Why don't you shut up? You're going to silence the conditions under which you negotiate, and you're going to do it without deputies. This is the only state in the world where the conditions under negotiation with the WTO are hidden! It was in Kuchma’s day! Why is it now in the days of Yushchenka, Timoshenko?Oh, my God! How many of us can we keep behind the baboons? Tell the truth! I'm against such ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u206	Alexander Masenko. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u207	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I've practically said what I was going to say in the question. But in the final resolution of this issue, I'd like to say that I can't agree that we can't ratify such documents with such a reservation that we're there. That's for us. If we go to the SATs or something, if we solve any questions. I will not find answers to that question. No government representative, no new authority will explain right now, well, what gave Ukraine what we always stand on our knees and do what we're dictated from the West? We got rid of the status of the nuclear power, no one gave us anything, no one gave us a penny, and no one counted us. The Supreme Council made a decision or a decision to the President, did not recommend the closure of the fourth block of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, was closed by decree of the President. What did this give us? No one's given a penny either, and the cost of maintaining this power station, we're running a colossal, danger, as it used to be, and we're doing blindly what we're dictated from the West. This is where I would like a government representative to hand over to the current high-ranking officials who will continue to make some kind of agreement and pass it on to ratification so they can think about security and interests, first of all, Ukraine. Not only were we told that we're nationalally aware, we're Ukrainian and we're in practice. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, don't interrupt, because I'll talk about you. So that they can really defend the interests of Ukraine, not we can't see in the document, we can see everywhere that we're just acting in agreement with those who dictate or those who give us some money, and most of the time they don't. So our faction has made a decision, and we think that this is an economic relationship and a relationship that we support. And we're going to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. But again and again, I ask you to continue to take into account my proposals and the observation that all actions should be taken in the interests of Ukraine. You're still out of Maidan, you're nationalally aware, and you're defending the interests of the people. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, once again, you also went with this one, and to the Hare I address, you walked with such a long scarf and were also national conscious. So let's work together to defend the interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u208	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u209	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. You know, dear colleagues, I've recently got this collection or method in my hands, it's written there, and how to protect scientific dissertation, candidate, doctoral. And it's given this set of images like this, well, actually, not being very much a scientist and not getting very involved in real scientific work, and I'm getting more and more often, some of the presentations remind me of how you can do it without reading the documents that we're talking about, and a certain set of universal stamps that are going to fit into any statement: whether it's about the economic problems of the free trade zone, which is a complex economic problem, whether it's nuclear weapons or whatever. Unfortunately, I've read, or fortunately, this deal and I can tell you this: there is one problem here, the distinguished representative of the Ministry. The Ministry's Honourable Representative! There is one problem. Today, there is a valid treaty in force in 95 C.E., in fact its name is what you said. Please indicate where the proposed version contains a consignment or.. that would cancel the 95 - year contract under certain conditions. I think this is a serious flaw. If you propose to ratify a corresponding agreement today, how will they work simultaneously? There's no transitional position? You don't? There's no position there? You don't? It seems to me that this will in some way discredit the perfectly normal and healthy nature of the agreement itself with Moldova. Dear National Deputies! We need to get out of what the executive representative rightly said, which we have today as a balance in the external trade with the Bridegroom. It's extremely positive, it's extraordinary, and I think it's better between all the other countries of today's SND or the former USSR, except Russia, and we have commodity positions that are quite convenient when we're actually creating a free trade zone with Moldova, and that's a fact, it just needs to be calculated, you need to prove it, not to say general terms. Then it is possible that representatives of different factions will comment professionally rather than talk about nuclear weapons, whatever they may be talking about in the area of free trade. It seems to me that this agreement, if it really is to analyze the text, rather than the moltology to do, and to carry out, through the prism of Ukraine's interest, the economic interest needs to be ratified. But I still think that these documents should be better prepared from a legal point of view, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u210	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u211	Thank you. Matvienkov 55 district. Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The ratification of any agreement relating to a free trade zone or free trade should always be dealt with with with with with particular care and care. Because freedom is such a relative matter we will speak and the concept is relative. If our economy is strong enough today, and today it can withstand this free trade, then these steps can be taken. But above all, we are here and must think about what we must protect our own domestic producer. That is when we return to him as a person, then perhaps we can vote more freely in favour of ratifications of free trade with States. Moldova is now one of the main consumers of scrap so far, if we look at the dynamics of how they are increasing the exports of scrap through, into this State. It's constantly, and it's growing positively, and we remember wonderfully when we put duties here, when we fought here to preserve or create a normal condition for this raw material to work for its own steel industry, the corridor opened through Moldova, the fort opened and went straight through the re-export. And that's what's driving us so far. Yeah, there's a factory in Rybnice, so we know perfectly well that it's to be broken and it's to be broken?? but nevertheless we must create conditions that would not undermine our own metallurgy. You'll see if you take the momentum over the last few years, what's going on there. Therefore, there was also a question for the Cabinet of Ministers. And so far, the Cabinet of Ministers has developed a programme to protect our manufacturer, or are we going back to the open cemeteries of cut equipment? Recently, some of the dealers here have been running: let's re-enter the free passage of money at reception, let's go back here to the position we had. Therefore, I am in favour of free trade, but not at the expense of myself or trading to the detriment of those living in that State. And more. Since there is time left, I would like to add a little bit to some of the comrades who spoke with regard to Ilic's combination. My dears! Please don't touch Ilic's combination, because it's sacred. To date, it's 2 billion taxes, to date it's 85,000 jobs, it's one of the high wages, to date it's a double-enhanced social infrastructure, to date it's the socially protected people who are working today, confident that they'll have it tomorrow. It's understandable that someone would like to have a pearl like that in their own pocket, but it's not a university, it's not a hotel that could have been set up in Mariupola by a budget man. No one has been allowed or allowed to attack such large enterprises as today are feeding the entire economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u212	John the Rabbit has the right to a replica. Then Oleg Grachev, the first deputy chairman of the committee, will summarize the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u213	Dear National Deputies! I suggest you ratify this agreement and not engage in demagogies. The thing is, Moldova is a member of SOTA. And as you can see, they live normally, and we need this agreement to strengthen our positions. It's different. Let's stick to the only rules of the game. When we talk about a single economic space, everyone speaks for the need for a free trade zone. When it comes to Moldova, let us again reward what many barriers are unknown. So let's stick to logic here, then we'll be really big politicians. And the last. We need to take into account that Moldova is still under the leadership of the Communist forces today, and we need to learn from Communist Voronin how it consistently advocates national interests and integrates Moldova into the European Union and does not say that there's destruction and there's opportunities. So let's look for new opportunities today for the Ukrainian economy, for the Ukrainian nation in integration. And what you need to prepare for is that you have to figure out the options for these processes. So I propose to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u214	Yes. I'm an honorary colleague asking the National Deputies to come into the session room. Oleg Grachev, then, dear colleagues, let's vote now. Then Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u215	Thank you, hello. Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, in connection with Jury Karmazin's statement, I would like to inform you of the following: indeed, last year, when the previous Government submitted a bill for ratification, there was a comment by the Budget Committee on the impact of the bill on the income portion of the budget. This year, the new Cabinet of Ministers resubmitted the bill for ratification and there are no comments from the Budget Committee. Our Committee, having considered the bill last year and yesterday, has invited its members to ratify it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u216	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u217	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear friends, there are no warnings about Moldova, none. Some say, however, that there will be a product from there. Dear friends, my mother lives there, sometimes I go there. There is agriculture in such a state that it takes tens of years. To compete with the Ukrainian peasant. So let's, dear friends, we're going to ratify this agreement, we're going to take another step towards having a good life with our neighbors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u218	Andrew School, then Manchulenko. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u219	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I of course also support the faction, but here's the thing: I failed to ask the representative of Kabmin: let's not forget, of course, we are very good neighbors and so in our neighbourhood Moldova has stolen part of Ukrainian territory along with the Dniester hydroelectric power station. It's kind of a friendly thing, I understand, they came in by accident, they took an important hydrousel, it's part of the Ukrainian strategic economy, because hydroelectricity, owned by the Dniestrów AES, is an integral part of the whole cascade that forms electricity in this region. It happened that our neighbors also in the neighborhood were a little bit stealing electricity there. But immediately after this thread was circumcised, Moldovan border guards decided to seize part of the Ukrainian cascade. So I would like the government not to hide from these problems, especially the Ministry, I apologize, and the issue has been resolved once and for all. Because good neighbourly relations are based, not on applications and declarations, but on actions. And these actions have to be demonstrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u220	Gregory Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u221	Grigory Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party, Cherniewec region bordering the Republic of Moldova. Dear friends, I suggest we look at the flies separately, the chops separately. Indeed, Ukraine should be able to defend its national interests and protect its national interests, including with its neighbors. But now there's a specific agreement that deals with a particular issue, it's a free trade zone between Ukraine and Moldova. And I believe that this agreement is in Ukraine's national interest. In addition, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, there is a proposal and a note that, from 30 June 2004, the conclusions of the parliamentary committees, including the budget, should not be added to this agreement. And I think that in a year you could call another committee meeting to consider this issue in connection with the new circumstances that are now in the relationship between Ukraine and Moldova. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u222	Mikhailo Ratushny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u223	It is the colleagues of the Ukrainian Party that John the Rabbit and Gregory Manchulenko generally said the position of our faction. I would just like to reinforce the the thesis that John the Rabbit has already said. For me, as a Ukrainian nationalist, it is a pleasure to see that in the Republic of Moldova, the President of the Communist Republic is so confident that he is leading his country to the European Union and the World Trade Organization. So I'm talking to our Communist colleagues, so take this Moldovan experience, and stand still, in this way, stand up for the interests of the Ukrainian state. And just as convincingly as your associate, the president of Moldova's Voroni, move Ukraine to NATO, the European Union and the World Trade Organization. And that's what you deserve real support from Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Deputies, please come into the session room. Dear colleagues, the bill of the Ukrainian Act is voted on, I say specifically, on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on free trade. Registration number 0255. Please vote. [[14:01:52]] For 273 Decision taken. We ratified the document. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 64, Communist - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 3, National Party - 30, SPU - 26, Block Timoshenko - 22, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Union" - 12, "Postfaction - 12. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. It's 2:00. 15 heads or authorized MPs and factions please meet in the third floor. After the break, we'll continue our work.
