ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests and invited Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[10:01:52]] There were 380 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today we celebrate the birthdays of Vladimir Volodymyrovich Hare. He has a small Jubilee, 45 years old, Vladimir Ivanovich Levcun and Valerius Mikhailovich Suškević. Let us warmly welcome them and wish them creative achievements in the field of lawmaking. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Saligin Vasil Viktorovich from the Democratic Initiatives Group. Please identify the group within two weeks. Honorable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the seventh session of the Supreme Council today, are holding another Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By a decree of February 3, 2005, the Supreme Council defined its topic of childlessness in Ukraine and its ways of overcoming this phenomenon. And the second question is to increase the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine. The government has identified from these questions Paulica Yuri Alexiyovich - minister in matters of youth and sport and Mikola Efraemovich Polishchuk, Minister of Health. At our meeting there are government members who have a direct bearing on the problems that we are discussing with you today. The necessary information-help materials from the government you've received, so we can approach the realization of our Government Day. The only thing I would like to point out is that you and I are going to have to some extent a violation of the government's work day, the government's day in the Supreme Council, because usually we're dealing with one issue with you, and then we're working, as they say, on a full-time basis. Today, it is suggested that we build our work as follows, this was the case yesterday on the conciliatory council, and the same suggestions are made by the profile committees that are responsible for today’s Government Day, namely: to consider the issue of childlessness in Ukraine and how to overcome this phenomenon is proposed to take two hours, giving a report for 15 minutes and one hour and 15 minutes to answer the written and oral questions; to speak to a representative of the profile committee for five minutes and 20 minutes to hold a debate -- three minutes to speak. To address the issue of increasing the fight against drug addiction in Ukraine, it takes up to an hour to provide an information report for 15 minutes and 20 minutes to answer the written and oral questions; to present a profile committee representative for 10 minutes and to hold a debate for 15 minutes. And so we're going to finish work today on Government Day up to 14 o'clock. These are the proposals, once again, dear colleagues, that we are in some way in violation of the Government Day Rules, because we are only spending an hour on the second question, as planned by the committee. Is there no objection to such a regulation of work? Yeah, then we'll cross over. Please sign the procedure for three minutes. Yes, please, point to the board. Chestenko, behind him, Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u2	Fucking Communist faction. The questions raised today on Government Day are very important: childlessness in Ukraine and how to overcome this phenomenon and about. Fighting drug abuse in Ukraine. The Communist faction insists that we come to this issue immediately, because our comrades have signed up, and there is something to say about this and ask the question of a government that, unfortunately, today does not make our homelessness, our children, diminish in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u3	Please, Taras Blackwall. Mikhailo Melniczuk is behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u4	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! As for the very order of Government Day, I have only one specific wish, because too little time to speak from the deputies, committees and factions to shorten a certain time limit for the report that they can report there today for this particular period, but instead to increase time to speak. And second of all, what I want to focus on in particular. We will, of course, listen to this subject, but when the country is in a state of legal exile and yesterday's, let's say, the court of Kolesnikov has shown this very well when there is a program of further political repression, I'm afraid that everything we accept here will not be done against the backdrop of colossal legal nihilism in any way, because legal nihilism begins with political repression, but ends with the limitation of the rights of every individual citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u5	Mikhailo Melniczuk, behind him Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u6	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In Ukraine, bread is ripe. I had just returned from the region of Cherniewec from the constituency, where I was able to meet the leaders of agribusiness, farmers. The situation is very difficult. I have stated this on several occasions on behalf of the faction, and the faction has made this statement repeatedly. Still, maybe let's look at the situation in the agri-industrial complex this week. In what format, let the profile committee determine which member I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u7	Mikhail Vasilovich, everything is right, but we are talking about the procedure for dealing with matters related to the government’s day. So please, let's do it on the subject. Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u8	Anatoly Moroz, 83th constituency, Mikhailovsky, Zaporez. A group called Democratic Ukraine. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, I support the opinion of many of the speakers here, and Taras Blackwall, that the issues that we are looking at today in the days of the government are very vicious, and they are important not by galloping around Europe to consider, but, in fact, to take a deep look at the complexity of the problem that we are considering. Yes, the problem that we have printed on these issues is the days of the government, and unfortunately, we don't go into the rules of procedure for dealing with these issues. I think it is necessary to follow the rules, to take into account what should come from both the committees and the factions, not to mention that the regional MPs should sound the problems that have arisen today in the regions and in the districts of each MP. Therefore, the honorable Adam Ivanovich needs to be considered in full procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you realize that, really, when we plan the days of the government, one question is worth asking -- then we have more opportunities and we are not violating our position on the Rules. Well, we have what we have. So I suggest that if you agree to this rule, please be careful: on the first question, we will ask the minister not to answer for an hour of 15 minutes, but for 50 minutes. I don't think there's gonna be any objection. These 25 minutes, which we're going to save on the question, we're going to add up to those 20 minutes to the discussion, and we're going to have a discussion over 45 minutes. You got it? On the second question. On the second question, we're going to have a little bit of time up to 14 hours, or we're going to continue for 15 minutes. In short, on the second question, we will not be discussing for 15 minutes, but 40 or 45 minutes, so that we will be able to speak to the people’s deputies. If there's no objection, we're on it, then we're on it. I invite you to the words of Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko, Minister for Youth and Sports, "The Children's Homelessness in Ukraine and the Ways of Overcoming It." Please have 15 minutes of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u10	Dear Chief! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! So when we talk about what face of childlessness and carelessness in Ukraine as a result of 13 years of reforming Ukrainian society, it's important to note that, first of all, the term for children on the street is from a few days to 1-2 years. It's not uncommon for children to live on the streets for 7-8 years. The carefree and homeless children in Ukraine are mostly people under the age of 14. Children walk out of the house on their own, starting at 6-7 years of age. Yes, during 2004, there were 14 percent of children between 3 and 7, 61 percent from 7 to 14 years of age, 25 from 15 to 18. Half of the street’s children live in families, every 4 in families or friends, every 10 in residential institutions. At the same time, nearly half of these children do not identify themselves with their families, and they do not even want to think about returning home. Crimes are considered normal and common to them because they allow them to survive. In 2004, 21 percent had an unfinished primary education, 14 percent had an initial general education, 37 percent had an unfinished primary education; 7 percent had no education at all; 1 out of every 5 children was an escapee from a boarding school. There are over 145 thousand minors in the preventive treatment of juvenile services who are leeching and beggaring, prone to delinquency, drug use, and alcoholic beverages. Every year between 25 and 30,000 children receive assistance in 93 shelters for minors. A modern form of child carelessness is parenting overseas. The country has a network of institutions and social protection institutions for children, including shelters, social rehabilitation centres for children, crisis centres, health-social rehabilitation centres, distribution centres. In the preceding period, methods have been put in place to remove children from the negative environment and provide them with primary social rehabilitation. Today, we can say that there has been some experience in removing children from the street, in providing them with a negative environment, and in providing them with first aid. In Ukraine’s Ministry of Youth and Sports, there is an all - Ukrainian free children’s phone line, with over 5,000 children’s appeals to them each year for misconduct. More than 61,000 disadvantaged families have been examined in the juvenile service. For failure to fulfill their parental responsibilities, 33,000 parents have been warned that more than 15 percent of their parents have been held responsible for more than 17,000 parents in 2003. In the past year, the courts of the first instance were pleased to hear more than 10,000 cases involving the removal of parental rights, and nearly eight thousand children were taken away from parents who were deprived of parental rights. What happens to childhood, if we ask ourselves that question, is what adults do to it. It is adults who take their children into shelters, refuse to raise them, it is adults who exploit their children and live for their money, abuse their children for their unsatisfying grades, disobey, throw newly born children under the door of other people's apartments, and refuse to hear about the problems of homeless and carefree children in Ukraine. The ministry’s 100 days of work showed that problems also stem from the imperfections of all branches of government — legislative, executive, and judicial. The national adoption system is in crisis. No matter what. That the order of adoption in Ukraine has been developed, and the mechanisms of activation, the promotion of national adoption, the formation of the positive image of the people who adopt are not provided for material support. Two laws conflict: the secret of adoption and the ban on adoption of children under two months of age. In principle, it is important to realize that a homeless child is short - termed, that such a child’s status can be bloated before his first contact with an authorized executive body, then the work of the court. Regrettably, the large number of criminal cases brought by the judicial authorities make it impossible to deal with civil cases in a timely manner, to establish the status of a child deprived of parental care. And without such status, it is not possible to have a child effectively, and homelessness continues to destroy him. Individual cases of violations of children’s housing and property rights Privatization processes in the housing market, corruption allows you to condemn, sell a child’s belongings, leaving the child homeless, which primarily leads to a child’s exit to the street, filling the ranks of the homeless. Many problems in the executive branch. So over the past 10 years, there has been no central executive body in Ukraine to deal with the problems of orphans and children deprived of parental care. The same situation is repeated at the local level. In recent years, care and care authorities have become confused. The work of the local executive authorities was replaced by a board of trustees as an advisory body. Those who joined the child’s fate were many, and there are no responsible ones. It is because of noticeable gaps at the district and city levels that part of the children become homeless and carefree. Thus, the causes and consequences of childlessness and carelessness require the government to take measures to prevent homelessness, to identify children on time who have come out, to develop effective forms of housing, and to resocialize such children. The development of an effective mechanism for overcoming childlessness is not possible without the rebuilding of local executive authorities, a clear definition of their child protection functions. Homelessness is a problem of the village, the village, the area, the community. All of these findings have been the basis for the development of youth and sport programmes by the Ministry of Ukraine aimed primarily at overcoming childlessness and carelessness. The basic principles of reform: all children are equal in their rights from birth and should have equal opportunities. Each child has the right to family and family education. Children have the right to special protection of their rights and interests. Local executive authorities are responsible for the protection of rights and interests. A clear executive vertical should be built in the state, which is responsible for the fate of each child. The reform of the child’s rights system should take place from the district, village, and central levels, not the other way around. The body of care and care as a legal structure should work in the interests of a particular child who resides in its territory. For the purpose of improving the executive vertical, it is proposed that the executive structure for the protection of children’s rights be strengthened in the Service for Minors. To fill in the active meaning of the concept of "care and care body", to create a government body of the State Department for the Adoption and Protection of Children's Rights within the Ministry of Youth and Sports, by transferring to its competence adoption, care and family forms of parental education, which in turn will allow for a clear vertical of executive authority on the protection of children's rights, including children of orphans and children deprived of parental care. To improve the prevention, timely detection, and effective placement of children, which means reducing the number of homeless and unattended children. To build a system by which children who have lost their family will meet with a single window of adults who want and can take such children into their families for adoption, to put in place a system of quality preparation for potential adoptive parents, caregivers, foster parents, and parents who have not previously been in Ukraine. Dear colleagues of friends, on June 9, 2005, at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, there was a round table entitled “With Love and Care for Children”, which supported proposals for reforming the child rights system in relation to Ukraine. The President of Ukraine is tasked with the central and local executive authorities and local self-government to make systematic changes in addressing the problem of homeless children in Ukraine. Accordingly, preparations are being made to address the problem of homeless and street children in 2005 and as a further prospect of the State Programme's project on the elimination of childlessness and carelessness, including the warning of social orphans for the years 2006-2020. The subject of regulation of these programmes is the establishment of a clear mechanism for the cooperation of local executive authorities and local self-government, social institutions in the provision of social and legal protection for homeless, carefree children in society, their socialization, rehabilitation and adaptation in society, the strengthening of the responsibility of parents or persons who replace the social institutions of officials for the violation of the rights of the child. Presidential decree on first-hand measures to protect the rights of the child. Moreover, the issue of carelessness, homelessness was repeatedly discussed at the initiative and participation of the Prime Minister. As a result of these measures, these councils were designed to take into account regional proposals for expenditure on measures aimed at overcoming childlessness and homelessness in 2005. Proposals are being made for a single funding mechanism for family - type and foster homes, proposals for a state support mechanism for adoptive families. Child - care services are being made up as a structure that directly protects a child’s rights by qualified personnel. Children are being examined in disadvantaged families and unexploited preschool facilities, out - of - school schools, boarding homes, children’s health facilities designed to provide children’s homes for living and teaching socially vulnerable categories of children. Work continues on the introduction of a single electronic system of children in crisis categories, including homeless and unattended. In addition, it provides for the creation of social centres for mothers and children with the aim of preventing early orphanages, social hotels for temporary and housing problems for orphans and children deprived of parental care, graduates of boarding and higher education institutions who did not have their own housing or lost it. The government will scrutinize efforts to overcome childlessness and homelessness, so the primary tasks are to significantly improve the work of the local executive authorities, care agencies, and caregivers in the identification of unattended and homeless children. Concentration of organizational and financial resources to improve child rights. One of the criteria for assessing the work of district and district executives is that of a child who is protected in a healthy family. The question is often asked: Is it possible to overcome homelessness at all? In my view, there will always be children looking for freedom on the street, arguing with their parents about going home. The main thing for me as a minister and our ministry is not only whether children live on the street, but first, how many children will be on the street. This time should not be years as it is now, but days and hours. Our job is to help the child in a timely manner and if he loses his or her family to provide family education in a foster home or a family home. Dear colleagues, we can point out that the basics of the government's approach to understanding the realization of children's rights, as defined by international standards and domestic legislation, have changed significantly in recent times. This has to do with the development of public policies on children, the improvement of the national machinery, the monitoring of effective legislation in the field of child protection, the establishment of social and legal protection institutions. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that we are going to have a serious conversation today, I am convinced that the joint activity of the Ministry, the government and the President with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which should be determined by the same priority number one child rights protection in Ukraine, will allow the negative trend that has emerged over the past 14 years to correct and make Ukraine a happy child protected under the care and protection of its state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u11	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, please sign up for the questions. While you're writing down, Yuri Anatoliyovich, I think your job should be written in a different way. They've added "family" already, is there an order?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u12	The order will be within the week.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u13	Oh, it'll be over in a week. Because we talked at parliamentary hearings and agreed that we should add "family" to the name of the ministry. Yes, I've heard that it will be. Within a week, there will be decrees that there will be a Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports. Yes, please, on the letter. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u14	The Committee on Social Policy and Work: "Is the current authority planning to develop its comprehensive program of overcoming childlessness for the coming years?" Prime Minister Timoshenko stated that not only 70 million dollars will be used to combat childlessness, but 30 million dollars of the Reserve Fund will be provided. For what specific purposes will these reserve funds be used? I would like to inform the Ukrainian National Deputies that the Ministry of Sugar and Sports is developing a national programme to overcome childlessness and carelessness for 2006-2010, which will be called “family, youth and sport” at the direction of the President of Ukraine. In addition, steps have been taken to overcome childlessness and carelessness in 2005, which are to be approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Currently, under the direction of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the issue of the use of the Cabinet of Ministers' Reserve Fund to address childlessness and carelessness is being studied, primarily by the Ministry of Youth and Sports with other ministries, including the Ministry of Education and Science; the creation of social hotels, mother and child centres, socio-psychological rehabilitation centres for children; and the creation of a single electronic information system for children of crisis categories, including homeless and carefree children; the establishment of a single public telephone line for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u15	Please, Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u16	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, you have addressed a number of questions in your report, you have identified them as such, but somehow you have not answered what to do with them. Especially the begging of children, the begging of beggars, whatever it may be, but the police had already intervened, the others, now it looks like no one's paying attention to it. Is this your interaction with internal affairs authorities in solving this issue? Next, the question of mother-worker. Well, really, it's in Italy, Spain, the mass of these mothers. And are there any treatments for children who are left behind as a result? What work is being done with them to solve this problem? And the materials refer to the United Nations UNICEF fund. How, then, is it used in Ukraine to address the issue of homelessness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u17	Thank you for asking. As for your first one, obviously, I agree with you that the question of beggars and the problem of beggar children is not a problem of children, but, first of all, of adults who use child labor and have created a business on children themselves. Today, the work of the criminal police in juvenile affairs, which unfortunately was the previous ministers of the Interior, has been virtually destroyed as an effective body for the protection of the rights of the child and for the criminal responsibility of those adults who are using children today. The Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine jointly established a plan of action to make a criminal police force on juveniles an active child rights protection body, and today we have worked on this joint action plan. In addition, the State Social Service for the Family, Children and Young, the appropriate services for minors, but again, there is also a problem that the service for minors is the most effective and effective child protection tool for today, with 59 per cent in Ukraine, and today the President of Ukraine is tasked with 30 days to complete the service data by 100 per cent, respectively, with qualified, trained personnel. When it comes to children whose parents have gone abroad and who are in charge. Yes, today we have started this work, realizing that this is a serious problem that fills the ranks of homeless children in Ukraine, the appropriate national social services of families, children, and young people in the regions, especially in Western regions, have begun to count such families. Today, more than 61,000 such families are accounted for, and social services are being provided to these families, first of all, to grandparents, grandparents, or relatives who have stayed with such children, in order to make sure that the child does not find himself in the street and support her as much as possible. With regard to UNICEF’s activities in Ukraine, a 2005 government - UNICEF agreement has been signed that envisions $3 million being allocated by UNICEF for three major projects, including those related to childlessness and carelessness. This includes the discovery of information centers in appropriate structures, both public services and services in the affairs of minors; the discovery of receivers where homeless children can come at any time. Our job is to have them operate in every district center, especially where homeless children are. And today we have started work on the next five-year plan for joint government activities and the UNICEF Children’s Fund, which will soon be presented for broad discussion. There was a meeting of the Executive Committee in New York, UNICEF, where funds were approved to support this plan. The final figure will be known after Ukraine has presented its plan of action by September of the month.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Please ask a more concise question and the interviewer will answer it, and it will be easier to ask others. Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u19	It's a written question. Committee on Social Policy and Labour. One of the most important problems is the recovery of homeless children. How and where is this category of children planned to rest in 2005? This issue is obviously about not only homeless and carefree children, but the issue of recovery concerns every child in Ukraine, so more than 195 million dollars are available for recovery, for a health care company in the 2005 government budget. The main directors are: the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior, the Social Insurance Fund, and the temporary loss of employment, planning to target 111 million dollars. A total of about 3 million children are planned to be cured in 2005. According to local executives, there are 18,945 such facilities, of which 923 are out - of - town and sanitary facilities, over 16,000 preschool camps and labor camps and rest camps, and 1,128 professional and 638 others, according to local authorities. According to operational information from 114 non-working establishments, work will be resumed in the summer of 2005. Minmolebysport, in collaboration with Minfin and Mineconomy, has developed a mechanism for the recovery of health expenses through centralized purchase of child - care travel. Special attention will be paid to children who need special care and support from the State, namely, orphans and children deprived of parental care, children with disabilities, children who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, children from low-income and multi-child families, children of domestic workers who have died in service, children of lost miners. Increasing the number of well - being children will result in the cost of travel to children’s health facilities. Minmolebysport, in collaboration with Minfin and Mineconomy, has developed a mechanism for cost recovery through centralized purchase of child health travel. In addition, I am addressing both the Ukrainian national deputies and Ukrainian citizens who are listening to today’s session if your family, your children, or your children, or if you know information about the failure to heal children who are listed in the categories because it is supposed to be a hundred percent recovery. I ask you to inform, because these problems often occur not at the central level, but at the local level. As a ministry, we will intervene immediately. The responsible leaders of the local authorities will be drawn to various forms of responsibility for failing to implement the plan and principles for the recovery of children in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u20	Viacheslav Anisimov, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Anisim, the Communist faction, the city of Dniprodijnsk. Dear Minister, as we know, childlessness and all that has to do with it grows after social disasters: soldiers, occupations. Please tell us, how do you think we can describe the actions of the ruling regime against our own people as war or as an occupation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. I think you know the best answer to that question, why during the 14 years of the previous government, the number of homeless children in Ukraine is 150,000. When about 80,000 families that we know today are in such a state that they are not fully capable of developing their child, which is another 150,000 children. In addition, children in Ukraine have confirmed the recent parliamentary hearings, 84 percent of children feel that their rights are being violated, half of whom believe that their rights as a child, as confirmed by the United Nations Convention and the legislation of Ukraine, are being violated constantly. Therefore, it is obvious that, as a result of the activities undertaken by the previous authorities, the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are defined as number one, protecting the rights of the child, protecting and caring for each particular child, creating conditions for the full development of the family in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u23	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u24	Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism What has been done by executive authorities, local governments, and what is planned to improve the effectiveness of social protection for many families, especially in the areas of employment, maternity and childhood protection, the social welfare of children from such families, the prevention of increased risk, the poverty and poverty of such families, the prevention of child abuse from such families? Ukraine’s Ministry of Youth and Sports, Families, Youth and Sports is preparing a bill on State support for families to raise children to improve social protection systems for families with children, to provide assistance, including the number of children in the family. Measures to improve the status of multi-child families will be included in the preparation of the State Family Support Programme 2006-2010, which is currently being developed by the Ministry and the Government. At the regional level, regional departments of the Ministry are taking steps to provide information training support for the development of family business and farming. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act and some other legislative acts of Ukraine take into account the increase in state aid to families with children, State social assistance to low-income families, State social assistance to disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities. In order to meet the stated targets in the State budget, the amount of the corresponding subsidy has been increased by 1 billion 370 million dollars and is estimated at a total of 3 billion 376 million dollars. Article 59 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2005 has abolished the restriction on the provision of subsistence minimum assistance to children under care or care. In addition, the protection of families whose average monthly total income does not reach the established level of subsistence allowance is ensured through the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Provided Families. From January 1st, the standard of living has been increased: as of April 1, 2005, there have been a hundred workers, 140 bracelets of invalidity, 150 bracelets of disabled persons. In addition, since January 1, more high guarantees have been placed for each child in a small and multi - parent family with two or more children under the age of 16. Local government administrations, executives of the relevant employment centres, set a quota for keeping in businesses, institutions, regardless of the form of ownership of more than 20 people, up to five percent of the total number of jobs in the workplace. In 2004, 24,000 were banned for young people who had completed or stopped secondary education and vocational training. 163 seats. I'll say the main thing, because there are still a lot of numbers and measures that the government has already done for four months of its work today, but I'll repeat that today the joint government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to fully provide social protection for many children's families and unprotected families. So I am convinced that there should be a joint effective work between the government and the Supreme Council in the preparation of the 2006 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u25	Yes, please, Raville Safiullin, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u26	Please give the floor to Stojan Aleksandr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u27	Stoyan's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u28	Thank you, colleague Safiullin. Dear reporter! Statistics show that there are as many homeless people in Ukraine today as there were in the early years of the war. This is certainly a disgrace to the state, a disgrace to a society that does not think about its future. One of the causes of homelessness is poverty. One in four is known to be poor in Ukraine. And especially poor long - term families, so children become homeless, run away from their families. One of the central slogans of your team during the President's election was the slogan "rich will help the poor." As we know, so many people have come to power now as ministers, vice-premiers and so on. Please tell me if this position of the President's program -- "the rich will help the poor"? Can you name names of rich people who are in power or business today who have provided children’s funds or help poor families or help the homeless? Or is that so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander, for a good question. You've done a very good analysis on this issue, and you've done an evaluation of your activities, especially on the head of the President of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, when in 14 years we've been given the situation that 150,000 children are being found and are now homeless and unattended. Today, indeed, I say this as frankly as possible, and the President and the government are determined that child protection is our priority. And if you remember, the government's first proposals for changes to the 2005 budget, which applied to child protection, from birth to 18 years of age. Moreover, it is clear that those incomes that were at that time did not allow for increased aid to all categories. To date, measures are being developed and appropriate supplements are being developed already in the budget, whether they are being developed in the context of the 2006 budget, which will increase both the number and the amount of social assistance that will be provided to children. Today, let us say, only at the level of the Ministry, are the combined efforts of international organizations of charitable, all-U.S. public organizations, churches, just public officials and business representatives to work out the only child - protection program that on the one hand provides for very quick, effective steps to take children out of the street today, and, on the other hand, not to allow these children to appear on the street. During the first four months, we were able to analyze the extent of this problem that has just been declared. Thus, for the first time in Ukraine, the Day of Child Protection of June 1 was not spent as a day of giving charity, but it was made as a day of unifying the efforts of all in Ukraine to create an effective national protection system for each individual child in Ukraine. So I am convinced that any national MP here can join in the same way and be obliged to join in this work. In Ukraine today there are about a hundred different institutions where orphans, children deprived of parental care, are kept. And this, I'll tell you, is one of those places where four national deputies come out. If the four national deputies take care of every institution where orphans and children deprived of parental care are brought up today, I think we'll be able to move away from the internal education system and ensure that every child has her right to be raised in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u30	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u31	It's a committee of questions. According to official data from the Ukrainian Ministry of Health at the end of last year, there were 5,000,329 children in the children’s homes. Of these, 3,457 children were left without parental care. The level of funding for a child’s homes varies from 5,000 to 15,000 a year. For most of the children’s homes, the level of funding is on average only 70 percent of the need. There are no social standards for keeping children in a child’s home. Should it not be appropriate to transfer the financing of all children’s homes, residential and educational institutions from the State budget, with the prior approval of social standards for the retention of children in these institutions? Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, the proposed proposal is contrary to chapter 14 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the cost of maintaining residential facilities, in addition to state-based institutions, comes from local budgets. According to the Ukrainian Budget Code, expenditure on maintenance of children’s homes is financed by the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and district budgets. In recent years, there has been a slight improvement in the financing of local budgets and in the pension costs of educators. Although the cost of current and capital repairs is allocated from district budgets to a limited extent, in most areas it is possible to improve the living conditions of educators and new buildings, using all the possibilities. Over the period 2003-2004, a number of measures have been taken to improve the material and technical base of children's homes, of the Internet. In rural areas, all children’s boarding homes are supported by agriculture, which provides basic food. Most of the security is, unfortunately, 40 to 60 percent. At present, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is tasked with increasing expenditure from the State budget to support orphans and children deprived of parental care in child welfare institutions. A proposal is being prepared for the 2006 State Budget project, which plans to provide for the full needs of such institutions. The President of Ukraine has given the task of financing the needs of orphans and children deprived of parental care from the State Budget and of developing a funding mechanism for the "money goes to the child" scheme, when it is financed not by a mortgage, but financed by every particular child orphan or child deprived of parental care regardless of whether she is in an boarding house, whether she has received a foster family or went to a foster home of the family type. In addition, Minmoledy Sport is initiating a reform of the social protection system for orphans and children deprived of parental care, which provides for the introduction of the only social standards for this category of children. We also consider that funding is necessary for the first few years of this direction entirely from the State budget of Ukraine, as discussed at the round table with the President of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine similarly supports this position. It's obvious that the first of the three existing state-owned homes where an orphan child is kept is a child's house, where children are raised from birth to three years. And so the first task that we have done today and before the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Youth and Sport is to provide all the houses that are needed by 100 percent, starting with the room itself, and ending up providing them with food, medicine and other necessary things to make them feel as good as possible. In addition, a sufficient number of staff with not one nanny for 12 children but enough caregivers to bring the child closer to the family system, but obviously if you go to any area, you will see and very often the child’s house is in front of the state tax administration and the attitude right now is very real. When there is a palace of district tax administration and there is a building often more than 100 years old where there is a children’s home. We're going to change this situation radically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u32	Please, Eugene Kirilchuk, Timoshenko Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u33	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Honorable Yuri Alexiyovich began the most responsible period of healing for children in Ukraine. Well, it's known that this is an important period for the recovery of children not only by your Ministry, but also by social insurance and Min APC, and Minosveti, and so on. The children are filled with camps, and I have received complaints that until now no funding has been made available, no funds have been made available. The kids are gone, and the money is gone. I know it's different, as they say to those who finance, but you're basically going to answer. Tell me, where is the reason? The ministry, the department, is it just Minfin to you, or did the Treasury not provide the money, which is why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to refer all complaints to the Ministry and we plan to use immediate action. And I've also talked about what happens to finance through different ministries: both the MNP, and the MNP, and the Ministry of Education and Science. Late today, it was certain that there was a provision for allocating, or a procedure for allocating, budget and purchasing, and a centralized purchase of child - care travel. This position is accepted, whether this order was adopted practically the day before the beginning of the healing company, so there may be some technical delays. And we'll react to them quickly. In addition, some things can happen at the level of local district authorities, where, as you know, filling or changing or reorganization is not yet complete. So, let's say representations or administrations of even our ministry today are not 100 percent assigned in every particular area, which also complicates the situation with coordination of child recovery. But this issue is now under direct control by the President of Ukraine, as discussed at the meeting that took place on Thursday. And during this week, there will be a clear arrangement for every district administrator, district government, relevant ministries and authorities to be personally responsible for what is going on in Ukraine today. So I'd like to ask again, and I'd like to contact other people's deputies, and I'd like to inform the citizens immediately of the Ministry of the possible delays in the failure or lack of quality of the children's presence in one or more health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u35	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u36	A committee on freedom of speech. Who in particular are responsible for overcoming childlessness in the State? In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Organs and Services in Minors and Special Institutions for Minors, this work is placed on the local executive branch, and more specifically on the services of minors. On June 1, they number 788 district districts. Regrettably, once again, the law is not fully implemented, and to date, the service is only 59 percent complete. In addition, the authorities involved in education, home affairs, family and youth, social services centers for the family, children, and young people are involved in solving the problem. At the central level, this work is coordinated by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The last meeting supported the Ministry's initiative to create a government body for the State Department of Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child, which we anticipate and aim to centralize the child's rights system and, in particular, the State's work on overcoming childlessness and carelessness. So that this situation, which is now at the district level of seven babysitters without an eye, would no longer continue and would be clearly defined by the only authority of the state responsible for the entire period as soon as the child became an orphan, the child became one deprived of parental care, controlled that he was with her and cared for her throughout the period until she reached the age of 18 and continued, did not finish the job until this child, an adult, a child or a young person, was given a job and would not be provided with housing. Because there's sad statistics when these children who have been raised by boarding schools, after 18 years, when they've stopped caring about them by the state, often they can't fully find a place in society and either resort to illegal activities or commit suicides. In this case, we have made it our goal to create an effective state system of child care and protection under the age of 18 and after 18 years of age until it actually creates its family and gives birth to its children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u37	Please. Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, our faction has already raised this question, so I'd like to hear your own opinion on these issues. First, you said yourself that we have children's homes, these are those left at birth in hospitals, maternity homes, and they're sent to children's homes, where they're raised to three years old, and then transferred to boarding homes to seven years old. And then they're passed on. Thus, the child’s psyche is traumatized, and it is not excluded that it fills the homeless. That's the first question. How do you look to unite in some way for at least seven years? And the second question. You've touched on homeless housing in your speech. So we have children who stay in maternity homes who lose their right to housing, but their parents have housing. So they have to get their 13.6 square meters for themselves, for that kid when she's old enough to have a place to live? What's your opinion on that, and here's yours? I am very grateful for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u39	Thank you for asking. Indeed, there is a situation where we now have three different state institutions in which an orphan child or a child is raised, deprived of parental care. Indeed, moving from one institution to another is a certain trauma, and I will tell you that there are several positive examples in Kiev and other areas where there is only one facility from birth to 18 years of age, where there are different children, and actually there is such a microfamily. That is, we today are also taking up arms, and we will try to do our utmost to ensure that the child, if we cannot provide a family for him, whether a family house or a foster family or an adoption, is able to develop in a children’s national institution in the most comfortable conditions. This is a position, and I support it as much as possible. But I'm telling you again, our priority is not a state institution, it's a family. With the child primarily in the family. We're going to look for, and we're actually developing mechanisms today both state and financial and organizational in order to encourage, create opportunities and conditions for families not to take children into custody, so that we have at least every year a state-owned, non-formal home. Thank you. As for the second question, today, as Catherine Samuel rightly points out, a corresponding bill has been drafted. And the bill has already been passed, and we will do it accordingly as a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u40	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u41	Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons: "Is the State Centre's adoption work effective?" This is indeed a problematic question -- adoption in Ukraine, and it has been raised repeatedly in recent times both in the Supreme Council Hall and in the Cabinet of Ministers, and in various public discussions. I will reiterate the initiative supported by the President and the Government to create a government body of the State Department of Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child in the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, to which the functions of the State Centre for Adoption, which is now in the Ministry of Education and Science, as defined by the law of Ukraine, will be transferred. At the same time, I have to say that unfortunately, over the last time, there has been an increase in the number of national adoptions to foreign adoptions, and today, if I'm not mistaken, 57 percent are children adopted by foreign, foreign citizens, and slightly more than 40 percent are actually Ukrainian citizens. In addition, the number of children who were adopted has decreased, let's say, if this number was 2043 in 2000, then in 2004 - 1,492 were adopted. Some of the growing number of children under care was 61,000 children in 2000, 65,000 children in 2004 - 65,000 children. But once again, these are obviously numbers -- they don't do the President's job in any way: to ensure that every child can grow and grow in the family. That's why we've set ourselves a priority today, first of all, it's a national adoption. Regarding the activities of the former and the work of the State adoption centre, there are certain complaints, and they came to me as a minister about certain abuses, but this is not the competence of the Ministry, but the competence of the relevant law enforcement authorities, who are convinced to give a final assessment of the activity and the existence of an international adoption system in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u42	Please, Leonid Vernigora, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u43	Dear Yuri Alexiyovich, you are a young minister, and you will be able to do much to eliminate childlessness, including by eliminating those insincere questions, as some have asked you. I just got back from Cremenchuk, there's a car factory. I would ask you very much to write this down right now: there's a house like this built in 40 places called "The Virgin." It was created by Vladimir Mikolaiovich Kovalenko, head of the Paradise, and by the woman who cares for it, Olena Borisovna Masli. Children today, from the basement to the basement, from the railway tracks, are passed on to each other and voluntarily go there. I'd like you to take this experience from a regional location where parents even know where to look for their children, maybe meet them together and these little cheaper ones, but the most effective homes for the homeless have to be placed everywhere, because we don't know what's more effective is building or paying for them where the children suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u44	I thank you for your information. If I understand you correctly about what you're saying, that's exactly what the system is now, when children are not violently using force methods, there are criminal police or the Service in the street, and then, according to statistics, about 20 percent of them are running back to the street, and it's a priority to create conditions and encourage, that is to say, to approach them with love, with an open soul, so that they can get there and then, accordingly, work was done to increase their knowledge of creating conditions for a full profession, so that by the age of 18, they can become full people who know and want how, let's say, create their family further. Actually, I'm happy to accept your offer. I think if I get this right, this system is actually our priority at this point in time to get the kids out of the street. Not by means of punitive methods but by a proper and effective system of encouragement for them to come there themselves. And the task, actually, of the criminal police, I repeat, in the matter of minors, is to fight the adults who created their business on children, and with them we start the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u45	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u46	Is there a need to reform the care and care system in Ukraine? If so, what is the point of such reform? Yes, time has shown that there is a need to reform the care and care system. The key is to build a clear operational mechanism to protect the rights and freedoms of each child in order to reduce the number of carefree and homeless children. The body of care and care, as the structure provided for by legislation, namely, the reincarnation, the miscinciples, should work in the interests of a particular child who resides in its territory, providing that all matters of care and care, adoption, and social protection of the child will be concentrated in one structural unit of the local executive branch, in the Service for Minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u47	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u48	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mr. Minister! Homelessness and carelessness are social orphans. Unfortunately, it is too large in Ukraine. In this regard, there are three questions. Do you not feel that the struggle is mainly with the consequences, not with the causes? How do we get to fighting the reasons, and of course it takes more than just your ministry to do that? Another reason. What are the priorities of public policy in combating homelessness? Name number one, number two, number three. And the third question. How do we measure the effectiveness of all levels of power, local and central, reducing the amount of homelessness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. As for your first question, I would have put it in the past. There was a struggle against the consequences, not with the reasons. Today we are moving, both the President and the government, to combat the causes of childlessness, that is, poverty, with disadvantaged families, that is, today is a clear priority and the President, and it is defined by the Government as overcoming poverty and protection, and caring for every child, family values, as a priority of public policy. It's all set out in all the President's public statements and it's set out in the Cabinet of Ministers program, "To meet the people." Obviously, this requires the development of new, effective mechanisms, which is exactly what we are doing today. Obviously, in three months, it's impossible to change and create and adapt them to the situation. But one step at a time, we do it today. And what happened today, during that month, yes, was the appropriate counsel: not just to talk, but to make specific decisions, with the appropriate Presidential decrees. I hope that during this week it will come out, taking into account all the proposals: both public and international organizations that were presented during the round table, and the Prime Minister's meeting, and the President's determination that the No.1 criterion for assessing the work of each head of the district government, the district government administration is a protected child in a healthy family, or the protection of the rights of the child. And this is actually the whole complex, and I think it stimulates a more responsible attitude, actually, towards the problems of the child's district manager, the city level, the village level first. Because there are children there, they're not here, they're not in the Supreme Council Hall, they're in every particular district village. In addition, the community, each local community, is directly activated because it knows each child. And he knows how to help this family. And the government's task is to react very quickly with financial and other tools, in order to give the future to every family, even if it's on the verge of extinction, that is to say, becoming alcoholic parents or drug addicts. There are still possibilities, there are tools to get them out of this. And today, why we've activated the task of identifying and taking into account disadvantaged families, it's actually linked to this to determine the amount of money that the state needs to give to them in order to break them up. The definition of the need for the number of different institutions that I talked about in my speech, which are both the centres of mother and child, and the socio-psychological assistance, the rehabilitation of centers. How many of them are needed to be able to provide aid effectively, not just on paper. How many social workers are needed, what work conditions are needed. It's that monitoring that's actually over. And today, on the basis of that data, we are shaping a new state policy on the protection of a child, a family, and so on. In fact, the priorities of their struggle against homelessness and carelessness are two: first, it is to take all children out of the street and second, not to allow them to appear there. If children appear on the street, it is only to play on children’s and sports grounds for 2-3 hours and then return to a happy family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u50	Thank you, Yuri Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik, reports. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, members of the government. Our society is struck by a dangerous disease: the diagnosis of social orphans, and it is accompanied by shameful phenomena, such as the carelessness and homelessness of children. When there are more than 50,000 families in the state, more than 105,000 children who do not have adequate care for their children, the corresponding services show 50,000 carefree children every year, and by 30,000 children get into shelters every year, 10,000 do not attend schools -- mainly results, the performance of the national family policy. A low standard of living, excessive wealth, and rising poverty could not but affect the upbringing and protective functions of the family. That's why we have social orphans. Consider: More than 90 percent of carefree teens have families. Among this category of children, over 70 percent are heavy on alcohol, up to 100 percent are smoking, and over 40 percent are using drugs. Diseases of infectious diseases that are socially dangerous are increasing among foster parents. It's tuberculosis, venereal diseases, will-infection. Physical sexual violence has been carried on by many children who are social orphans. Such contingents of homeless children are dangerous. In the context of loss of quality, not only of modern but also of future generations. And the trend towards these categories of children is threatening to reduce the civilisation of society. After all, this phenomenon is extremely dangerous to the demographic national security of the state, not to mention international prestige. And this is the result of almost 15 years of government activity. Today, we cannot accept the recognition by our governments that the efforts of the State are not exhausted and sufficiently coordinated, and that the situation of children in general and especially homeless children remains too complex and in some respects tends to get worse. There couldn't have been anything else. When every new government has failed to comply and fully utilize existing legislation. All the planning of this work was short - term initiatives and actions, which in themselves tend to have social and populist nature and are carried out for the sake of self - love of high - ranking owners, president’s wives, and also broadcast widely on television, in other media. Where's the prophylaxis? Consider, for example, the basic positions of the 2006 budget policy framework in which the government failed to identify a factor such as State support and strengthening the family institution, improving the status of the family, women, and children. What kind of work can be done to address the problem of homelessness and carelessness if, for 2006, there is simply a lack of focus on increasing state support for youth housing, developing infrastructure and providing social services, creating conditions for inclusive development and self-implementation for young people, increasing the amount of budgetary funding, extra-primary measures aimed at reducing unemployment, providing first-hand jobs for young citizens, creating a healthy lifestyle. I don't think these are the new directions I'm talking about. They are all reflected in the Government’s Youth Support Programme, and we must be able to provide funding for these goals. In particular, I'd like to take a second look at all kinds of experiments, pilot projects, etc. in the sphere of social life, which exactly reflect work with the carefree and homeless. It should be based on a scientifically based basis that is based on the leading national traditions of family education. Unfortunately, it has to be said that, unfortunately, attention is paid not to the refinements of national scientific and pedagogical thinking, but to the advice of foreign foundations and sects of non-traditional religions. After the Great Homeland War, almost every region had a children’s home for children whose parents had died. And children were brought up, and they were given education, work, housing. Then why don't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u52	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u53	I'm done, 20 minutes. So why don't we go back to that experience? When I'm in the children's homes, which are beautifully called the House Fire, and so on and I see foreign faces, foreign sects and priests. I don't think our great people Ukrainian with such traditions of family, family education can use our acquisitions? And that's why, Yuri Alexiyovich, I'm addressing you: we have to do everything we can to make sure that even those children who are carefree and homeless grow up with real patriots and Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u54	Thank you. Yes, we will proceed to the discussion. As you and I agreed, 45 minutes. But in this regard, we will have to drag something on for a break, then we will consult. Yes, first of all, representatives of factions will speak. It's a three-minute performance today. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, a faction of socialists, will be followed by Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u55	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners! We're back on the subject and we're looking at in Parliament today a very serious problem that our society has faced in the last 10 years, we're going to talk, we're going to face. And, of course, what the government and the minister and Parliament are doing today is doing everything they can to somehow influence this problem, we think that children today, children's problems are out of the public eye and out of the public eye. Of course, the declaration that we're going to create houses, the declaration that we're going to fight the homeless, it's just declared. First of all, yesterday I was a witness, and many of you, dear ones, watched TV about a terrible incident when children were used in Odessa to take blood. I was just appalled that this is happening in a state that today seems to be on the path of democratic development, where every citizen of Ukraine is under the patronage of the state. First of all, it's a simple declaration. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will do with the factions that want the good for our future -- it's for our children to bring about a program that we would really feel for every young citizen who's lost a mother without a father in the near future. On the other hand, we have isolated experiences when children are left behind. And then who cares about them? That's good, but we do have cases where they have good hosts in their homes. And if we have cases that we've known over and over again, what happened to the teenagers that were doing to the children. Are we off the subject? So what I'd like to say is that the government day, and the profile committee that planned for today, is very relevant. And the socialists -- not just the faction in Parliament, but our regional representations of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, our party organizations -- will help the executive structures of power, the representative authorities, to make a tangible step forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, Democratic Ukraine Group. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone who rightly believes that history has something to teach future generations. It was June 11, 1926, that the Soviet Ukraine announced the start of the battle against childlessness. Some five or seven years later, it was largely over. Some 80 years later, we start again from scratch, again dealing with such a shameful phenomenon. Why do the vast number of legislative acts, parliamentary hearings, and many days of government not bring positive changes? But because this problem isn't moral-lyric, it's not family-building, as the minister told us, it's deeply social, even socio-political. In its time, the Soviet Ukraine struggled with homelessness not only by creating children's colonies, boarding houses, shelters, houses and so forth, but also by increasing the economy, new buildings, new jobs in new factories and factories, a branched system of factory education and out-of-school education. I mean, in the view of Democratic Ukraine and the Social Policy Committee, the fight against childlessness should be part of social policy, and until we are even closer to creating socio-economic premeditations in the fight against this scourge. The majority of the poor in Ukraine are families with children under 18 years of age. Many families feel particularly distressed. They should be helped by the government instead of throwing money into the wind to fulfill a variety of original promises on the pink field. In the meantime, statistics show that in the Ukrainian family last year, where 4 or more children belong to one family member, there are 150 dollars a month — a level slightly lower than that of African countries — slightly less than $1 a day. How can we really fight poverty among working families when, under the cynic-demagogical slogans, the collapse of Ukrainian automobile building began when investors came out of Ukraine when, for the first time since the Great War, the domain furnaces and martins were extinguished when more than 20,000 business subjects were removed from the register, preparing millions of adults for unemployment? Do you think the children of these parents have a future? Do they feel protected? Especially in the background of a police-prosecutor saviour who's pissed off. In the industrial regions of the state, against the backdrop of the galloping road, provoked by power, against the backdrop of the steady growth of wages since the beginning of the year, and all this, please note, without war, without intervention, because of the low quality of government or the lack of understanding of the essence of social problems. I believe that improving the lives of our children can become a reality, but not in one day, and only in the complex of improving socio-working relationships and nothing here is a family-based problem. Remember, the ancients taught, "without a rich life in the people, you don't raise good qualities." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u58	Thank you. Bogdan Hubsky, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Michael Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The day of the government was initiated by the faction of Ukraine. We well know that there are now some 30,000 children, 145 000 children in shelters, and children who are wandering and beggars. It's not just numbers, it's the broken fate of our children, it's part of the future of our Ukraine. Who and for What Does Our Future Hold? We are well aware that poverty and unemployment are the primary issues. We've already introduced a number of bills, including the care of a child for the first three years, 800 dollars a month to give to a young mother, as well as others to improve the social protection of people. At the same time, in our view, homelessness is often the result of carelessness. In Soviet times, we had, as we remember, the best system of State care for children. Now, what do we have today? An example. There were 43 children’s camps in Irpine, and now there are only six. It's everywhere. And as for sanatoriums and holiday homes, there has been criminal theft, especially as we know, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Odessa, and other prestigious areas. Children’s holy health was spoiled. We owe it to you to stop this vacchanal, which is bound to restore social justice. Me and the faction of the One Ukraine Party insist that every mother should be able to send her child to rest. Every homeless child should have the right to social protection and sanitation. Next. The university entrance exams are about to begin. As always, 50 percent will study for the budget, and the other half will pay for the money. And if the parents do not have money, the child goes out, fills the ranks of the risk groups. And then there's crime, there's drug addiction, there's homelessness. A child in a safe family learns in a prestigious school, rests abroad, and becomes an automatic student. What about the path of a poor or homeless child? How can she become a student today? Chances today are zero. So in summary, I would suggest that we focus on the following practical steps. First. It's to restore social justice and return to the state property of the sanatorium, the houses of rest, the children's camps. On their base, we need to create places to heal children, day-to-day kindergartens, and social rehabilitation centers for the homeless. Secondly, it is necessary to provide 100% free of charge in public schools and vocational and technical schools to make changes to the budget, about 2 billion dollars a year. It's a pit for our children, and we know where to take this money. In particular, by reviewing illegal privatization, illegally stolen objects. The money stolen into the state needs to be returned and invested in our children. We owe it to you to ensure a happy future for every Ukrainian child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u60	Thank you, Bogdan Vladimirovich. The word is Michaela Wolintz, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Igor Šurm will be with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues and radio listeners, in our society homeless children everywhere, in the subways, in the streets, in the attics of houses, and in the basements. Unwashed, unwashed, aggressive, with smiles, being high, they're among us, part of our lives -- a category of children who don't have a childhood. They have long been thrown out of it by the unrelenting hand of one’s indifference. They are children who earn a piece of bread by prostitution and begging. Tuberculosis, AIDS, venereal and other dangerous diseases, narcotics, drug addiction is their destiny. In view of the overall decline in birth rates in our country, these children are now lost workers and employees. Tomorrow they will fill the ranks of criminals and bums. Statistically, there are about 900,000 homeless children in the country, more than 100,000 of them orphans under the age of 18. About 180,000 are children with parents, about 200,000 are children who have been abandoned by parents. Among homeless children, about 20% have no parents or home. About half the social orphans, their parents disowned them. Let's think about these terrible numbers. This is our future, our hope, our change. In my opinion, among the reasons for childlessness are the following: first of all, most homeless children are children from disadvantaged families, about half of single families, every 10 children are orphans. Secondly, according to statistics, every 7 children were found in the street because of violations of their housing and property rights. Third. The reasons for the flight of children from home are the low material wealth of the family, family problems, the social behavior of parents, alcoholism, drug abuse, violence, lack of family contact with children, increased conflict between parents, parents, and children. About 20 percent of homeless preschoolers. Medical examinations show that only 30 percent of visitors to shelters are on condition called healthy. The phenomenon of increasing the number of homeless children in Ukraine shows that the state system of care and care in our country today is not perfect. In my opinion, with a view to eliminating the childish carelessness of social restrictions. It is important: to ensure adequate wage levels and employment for the adult population in order to improve the material status of families, to ensure support for families with children, including the establishment of a criterion for the right of a multi-child family to receive social housing, to obtain free textbooks and school equipment, school uniforms, housing and utility benefits. Compare the status of a family with foster children with that of a multi - child family, and create a child - authorized service within the framework of the Human Rights Commissioner. Ratify the Hague Convention on Child Protection and Cooperation in Interstate Adoption Helping homeless children is not the only thing that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Igor Shurma. Prepare Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u63	The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party, Igor Schurm. [[united]] Now is a very good moment for me, certainly, as an opponent for the speech, because today is the day of government, and there is no one in the bed of government at all. Who will deal with homeless children if the minister refuses to listen to speeches by national deputies and proposals from factions? Where are the representatives at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers? Today, when we talk about homelessness, we should say that without fighting the causes, today’s conversation, talk, empty talk about the consequences will do nothing. Last year. We can talk about the effectiveness of today’s Government Day. It's going to be zero. It will be zero in view of the fact that parliamentary hearings this year are transformed into good government purposes. And I would like to remind you that it was the representatives of the "Our Ukraine" bloc that voted in favour of the parliamentary hearings. And today the government would have to take the basis for that proposal. He's not doing anything for today. And today's attitude of those people sitting here, it's adequate before what the President of Ukraine called them, you're varnishes. And you're homeless, because you're going to be homeless. This is also the attitude of the problem and the lackeys toward the problem. And we're talking about homelessness, we're not talking about consequences. The first thing he did when he took the position of Dominique de Will Lepen, Prime Minister of France, was discuss the solution to the problem of unemployment. And where is the moral order of the President of Ukraine for job creation? One million jobs. Without a job, the children of these parents go to the street. And 145 thousand homeless children today are not patriots of the state, and their parents will never be patriots of the state. And for the reason that there's a government wage program for cultural workers. In rural areas today, for example, in Lviv, 30 percent do not even receive a full wage for their work. We're talking today about solving this problem. Today, without job creation, we will not overcome homelessness. Today, when the government is taking steps to reduce customs tariffs, it is killing the national producer of the industrial and food group. We're going down again. Today, there is no housing loan program for young families to be stronger. Today, the Small and Medium Business Development Programme does not create the conditions for everything in the state to be okay. The investment in children is long and expensive, but it works with great efficiency. And that must be understood by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, the faction of "Ukraine" Alexander Stoyan. To prepare for John the Reaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to support the position of my colleagues, particularly Dryhogo, and Shurma, that childlessness is the result of socio-economic policies of the state in the years of independence. I don't want to tell the new authorities today that she's not doing anything. In fact, you're not going to do anything in one day, but what the minister said is, you know, so little action, and it's fundamentally not going to work out, because the issue has to be tackled in the fight against the homelessness of children in the socio-economic sphere, first and foremost. And so far, there is no stable work for many parents. If there is no steady work, it is clear that there is no way to protect your family. Second, there is a low level of pay. And the minimum wage level, and the average pay rate, doesn't even allow two working parents to support a child properly. The third argument is, why are we homeless? It's a child's social vulnerability, low social assistance. But the help that is available today cannot fully satisfy children’s upbringing, dress them, and teach them. So it certainly is. These issues must be dealt with at the level of the State. The second reason is that young families are not organized. That's what my colleagues have said. Lack of housing, lack of employment, inability to get a normal salary, leads to young families, even when they have a child, either break up or lose their child. I'd add a reason -- no spirituality. There is no proper parenting, no normal parenting, no vision, and where does our country go, how will it develop, what will it do? These are all the components that lead to this. To such an insolence, when children are simply abandoned, they are thrown into a garbage pit. Throwing them out on the streets, and no one is responsible. What does the faction of Ukraine suggest? The "Regions of Ukraine" suggests, first of all, that in view of the fact that today it is increasingly taking a good direction, such as raising children in children's homes, we should think on a legislative level of protection for those parents who work in these family-type children's homes. I mean, first of all, it's going to work, second of all, on the Pension Fund, third of all, on the social insurance of these parents. If they suddenly get sick or lose their jobs, they have to be socially protected. The next question is to make it possible for parents to get it. to provide education to children, to parents from young families. The third point, I think, of course, is to strengthen the responsibility of parents to raise children. And the last time we talk about rest, the minister here told me, I mean, Mr. Minister, 600,000 children, the Federation of Trades has been healing every year, and one third of them were orphans at the expense of both businesses and companies. So, we could do what we could. I think we need to accept these changes or additions to the law today to stimulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u66	Thank you. Ivan Rishnyak, faction of the National Party. He will be followed by Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u67	Ivan Rishnyak, 162nd constituency, faction of the People's Party. Dear Chief, Honorable Fellows, Honourable Officials! Given that forms of overcoming homelessness have long failed to meet the humanistic orientation of the state’s politics, the faction of the People’s Party has offered the government a range of urgent measures. Various reasons have been put on the streets by the poor, but they can be called the victims of "wild capitalism." This disgraceful phenomenon must be brought to an end, and then all the support is due to this initiative by President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka of Ukraine. But in what way can it be implemented? Let me explain the faction's reasoning. First of all, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine needs to create a vertical in the system of executive power from the control and enforcement of homelessness programmes, to immediately organize the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Domestic Violence, which, in our view, is one of the main reasons that drives children out. To children, and especially to homeless ones, knowledge of the prestige and economic benefits of a healthy lifestyle needs to be communicated. They need to be aware of the root causes, to have information about the benefits of health conservation, and, equally important, reproductive health. And we spend days on TV watching movies of the horrors of all kinds of violence, robbery, and rough sex. It raises deep concern about Mr. Pavlenko's statement by the minister of youth and sports about the total elimination of boarding schools, arguing that every second tutor of the boarding school is a criminal. We disagree, and for this reason the faction of the People's Party has made an appropriate statement and is counting on an understanding of the government. According to the faction, the way to do a project on homelessness is by strengthening boarding schools that have qualified pedagogical staff and their doctors and psychologists. There is also the opportunity to involve Anton Makarenko's experience with his cruel discipline, and the noble Janusz Korczak of him, forgive him for not knowing what he was doing. The gains of advanced educational institutions, such as the Buchan boarding school in Kiev, should be included. Finally, I would like to point out that without overcoming unemployment, we are destined to beat the crap out of the place. We require the government to take systematic steps to return from slavery to Ukraine of Ukrainian women mothers. We hope that these proposals by the faction of the People's Party, as well as those by my fellow national MPs, will not go unnoticed by the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u68	Thank you. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u69	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, today's meeting with the government proves beyond a doubt that the new power, both the President and the new government and the updated Parliament, is finally returning to the child and taking steps to meet the people. You can't help but notice that. In terms of overcoming poverty, I think we did the right thing when, at the initiative of the President of Ukraine, we 20 times raised aid for the birth of a child. And that immediately yields positive results. The second important step that we have taken together on this important path to overcoming poverty has been adopted by the social budget itself, which I stress we have even supported the opposition factions except for one. I think that's the way we should go. The next moment. It didn't sound today, but in my opinion, it is very important to address these issues in a way that fully respects the rights of a child, which is recognized by society, is enshrined in many international and national legal acts. Among them are many laws, including Ukraine, that stipulate the right of every child to be brought up in a family. Unfortunately, it can't always be a biological family, sometimes it can be a foster family, sometimes this family needs to be replaced by boarding houses, houses of this family type, small ones, and from this point of view what the government and the President are talking about, I think is absolutely right, and here we need to support their initiatives. Next position. I think that's a little bit of a subject here. What about society’s view of the problem? What stimulates our society? Let us consider this problem: Whether we support or root out the fight against homelessness by providing help to those children who are there without worrying about what will happen to the child. It's just that some kind of bribery comes from a child. And at the same time, I think that until we've moved on to these children's boarding schools, we can't ignore what is, what's already done. And in this part, our faction agrees with colleagues who have spoken before. And finally, I think that children can't be, and homeless in particular, hostages to some political combination. So I was saddened to hear as representatives of some former authorities who could do much but did not do nothing today but do nothing constructively. I think it's our common cause, it's a question that needs to consolidate all of Ukraine and parliament to solve it. And along with the government, and the President, at last, to prove this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u70	Thank you. Stepan Gavrish, group of Democratic Initiatives. Peter Simonenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u71	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues. After Mr. Bespalogo's consolidating speech in an updated parliament, it's hard to say anything, but 36,000 homeless children on the street make this a completely resonant topic. Clearly, the key point is the problem of poverty in Ukraine, and so far it has not been accepted at the national level and has not been implemented in its practical dimension of overcoming poverty in Ukraine and is doing what is increasing with each year the number of homeless children. Five more years ago, they were much smaller, and experts say that there were no homeless children during the Civil War. This is also a resonant topic, and I welcome Prime Minister Timoshenko's position, who said that this is topic number one in Ukraine, and I also welcome the government's position on the establishment of budgetary, non-budgetary financing, but in addition, we need to take a number of concrete steps. It's not right for experts to say that this is a topic that needs to start from scratch. That's not true! This topic has long been discussed in Ukraine in the legislative body. In due course, I've submitted a bill on family-type children's homes, which I have recently reminded the President of, and I believe that the more urgent Parliament will go to him, the more it will go to his analysis and acceptance, the sooner we will overcome the system, as it were, of old boarding reservations, where Ukrainian patriots are raised behind stone walls -- and the nation that was born with the Ukrainian flag and the anthem already in the heart. At this time, 136 family - type homes account for only one and a half thousand people at a time when 65 percent of the children in Britain are in these homes. The second problem, and I've also submitted an appropriate bill to Parliament, which is to have children who are orphans set up appropriate accounts from the moment they're born, for which the state would automatically count some of the funds to raise them in the future that they could unlock after reaching the age of 18. We calculated that in a year, the state could count them to thousands of dollars, that is, 5,000 dollars. This is enough for a child to receive a proper education not only in Ukraine but also in Ukraine. Finally, it is vital that we include in the budget the guaranteed, budget-protected lines to support the particular problems of childlessness and orphans. And finally, the last. We need to return to the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which has been so difficult in Parliament. It should now reinforce the responsibility for violence that drives children out into the street, transforms them into small prostitutes, into people who are used to commit serious crimes. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament is capable of doing so and has sufficient regulatory projects to do so in the portfolio. What's important is that we sit at the round table with the President and the government and agree to take joint steps and not make a real political pear for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u72	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the word. Get Matvienkov ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! There is no doubt that the future of the child today depends not only on the ability of the family, but, above all, on the extent to which the environment in which it lives and is raised contributes to its development, that is, the role of the State. Because today, for some children, they're Oxfords and sorbonnes, and for others they're train stations, sewers, basements, diseases, lice, crusts, junk food. This is the pole of today's situation. In fact, the problem is not resolved by the law, but through the political system, because children in the current Ukraine and the regime have become a tool and a mechanism for enriching certain structures. If the system, the Soviet system, and the need to speak with pride, gave children a measure of quality, it was not a matter of quality, but of giving to children. What did they give you? The nursing sister came to the young family every week, the home kitchen provided free food, the kindergarten accessible, the schoolroom, the Pioneer Palace, the Palace of Culture for the Development of Children's Art, the library, the cinema for 5-15 copies, the pioneer camp for every working group and free family rest, free education, the special cinema for the name of Goricko for the child, the sanatorium for sick children, the sports grounds in every microregion. Today, in Lviv, all sports grounds were destroyed and built by houses. Free food in schools. The family received free school uniforms and sports uniforms, free textbooks and cheap books. Orphans from PTU: housing, employment and future travel. It was all a system. Thus, parents were provided with work, housing and support from the State. In the current circumstances, the current power has in fact turned children into a source of enrichment for certain clans, i.e., despicables, to speak plainly. Who brought drugs to Ukraine today? The current mechanisms that try to build a bright future for themselves and for their children are certain commercial structures. AIDS, first place in Europe. Child prostitution, demobilization, venereal diseases. Instead of the palaces of pioneers, return them, for God's sake, you opened the casinos and brothels. We are saying today that the exploitation of a child is a humiliation of Ukraine because Ukraine is recognized as a country that trades children outside Ukraine. And, by the way, in the western areas where child trafficking began, none were put in prison. Therefore, respectable comrades need to change the political system. Today, the Attorney-General's Office must be child protection authorities if it cannot protect an adult and restore justice for the upbringing of a child. And, of course, the State system will only finance when another political system is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u74	Thank you. Yes, the "Industrials, Entrepreneurs" faction gives its word to Matthew Sergey. Agree to Widowhood.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u75	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear friends, well, to say that we have not dealt with this issue, the issue of absenteeism in Parliament would probably not be right. Do you know how many laws have been passed, how many laws have been adopted, including the Cabinet of Ministers? How many possible funds have been created? We heard an expanded report today, but what has this given us so far? We need to be honest and honest. Here today, it was called numbers and everything was completely different. Accounting system: How many street children do we have today, unfortunately, we do not have to date. We are all well aware that impartiality, to this day, is a time-consuming bomb. It's primarily infectious venereal diseases, it's drug addiction, it's crime. In just 3 months of this year, 747 robberies, 200 robberies, 45 assassinations, and 27 rapes were reported. You think about these numbers, these are the people who will come tomorrow to lead society and live in our society. We see that the public policy system that has been developed to date does not work in the right direction in which it should work. Let's take the main reasons. What is the reason for this category of children? First of all, it's a loss of value in the family, it's a decaying family relationship, domestic violence, parental drunkenness, freedom in all its aspects, which today is passed on to a child he sees from TV screens with propaganda and so on and so forth. The ability to earn money quickly and spend it as they deem appropriate is not adequately controlled. And then there's total poverty. Those who think that today, if we feed the children, give them textbooks and put them in clean classrooms, they'll start studying tomorrow, this category, they're very profoundly wrong. We're trying to solve the problem at the bottom -- we're creating funds, funding and so on, and so on. And the problem is much deeper, and there's a lot more to it today. We set up foundations in Mariupola -- and Good Samaritans, and Pilgrims, and so on, and normal people work there, but that's why we decide. What's the reason? First of all, these funds were given to religious organizations. They work, well, I call them, these people, good dilettantes. People who are close to religion, to spiritual values, but they're not specialists in pedagogy, that's the first. Second. The child goes there without having a clear accounting and control system, where he is. He's here today, he's gone tomorrow. There is no clear system of control in this regard. What should we do? As long as we don't go back to that system, what Peter Nikolaevich said today is that we have to set up such a system: not having a child in school is a PP for the area, for the crow, we need to know exactly where he is. Second. The responsibility of parents until the imposition of criminal responsibility for the upbringing of children in this manner. Persecution of children, for beatings and so on, and so on. The public content system of these children, even before it is forced, because today it is different, but if there is a disease, it needs to be treated until surgery. This is where children should be, these children should be isolated, isolated, working with psychologists, educators and so on. The pioneer camp system, the system of those organizations that existed, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u76	Thank you. Hennady Josephovich, head of the Human Rights Committee. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to break up the problem of boarding school graduates and what happens to them after they've been under state supervision for the rest of their lives -- from a children's home and then to a boarding school. And this young person who was being taken care of by the state, and all of a sudden he's being given panties, shirts, excuses, and 100 bracelets or more, depending on what boarding school he's finished, and they're sending him to life. [[good or bad is another matter]] He is not fit for this life. I was approached as the head of a committee by talented children. And he doesn't know where to go. No one does employment. Well, boarding school out there, maybe a couple of kids. That's a huge problem. You can do that. It's about 100,000 a year. And we as a nation throw them out into the streets and make them dirty. Today’s realities illustrate an open letter from interns in the Ternopil region to the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and other state institutions, filled with no more childish pain than despair. I quote only what actually concentrates on their main problems: "The poor have learned what power is, how corrupt officials are here, from senior to smaller, and so-called phone call. [[It's a letter.]] Likely, the same officials who robbed us and drove us out of the street without providing us with suitable socially secure housing. Many orphans remained in the state with constant drifters, who lacked a piece of bread and shelter, including "the socio-economic rise of Ukraine" which led to the acute unemployment of young orphans. [[in quotes]] We need to take care of them. I think it's necessary for the government right now, starting in the second half of this year, to develop proposals for the 2006 State Budget, which would provide for a significant increase in material assistance for graduates of boarding schools. We need to develop a system to encourage workers to create jobs for graduates of boarding schools, to provide them with accommodations, and so forth. They do not have a father, a mother, but there is a Fatherland, a homeland and a state that must once and for all become their mother, not their stepmother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u78	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u79	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The problem of homeless children is becoming a national disaster in Ukraine, as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko spoke. Today, according to state statistics, 260,000 children and some 400,000 abandoned by their parents were on the street only last year. They don't learn, half of them only graduated from primary school. Stranded on the street, they become prey to criminals, bums, and drug addicts. Among children, the number of disabled persons in the street has increased by almost three times as a result of household injuries, road accidents, or domestic violence. The infant mortality rate of newborns is three times higher than that of developed countries. Mothers have given birth, without even waiting for the 8 promised thousands, toss their babies into a garbage dump. For example, in Kirovgrad, a baby was found in a garbage dump on the day of child protection. And this is not the first time. It is shocking that children in the country are more likely to become commodities today. They are sold into sexual slavery, taken as a TV or a refrigerator for rent for the organization of a beggar’s business. A child’s begging in Ukraine is likened to a well - arranged industry where children ask for charity, not of their own free will, but of the coercion of their parents. It's worse than a disaster. Here are the consequences of the awakening and the new morality, a new upbringing that has brought about by so - called reformers in independence. It seems that an army of adults stands at the stake, and 20,000 parents are held accountable each year. And how many times in the walls of the Supreme Council have they listened to this question! However, the problem of childlessness and crime in Ukraine has not moved away. And unfortunately, so far no one has ever been identified as the chief cause of this calamity. It is a shame to hear the Prime Minister’s statement today that in order to overcome childish homelessness, the government plans to engage the world’s societies, saying, the world will help us, and we will overcome this shameful phenomenon throughout the world. Is it not embarrassing for the government to make such a statement? The world that the Prime Minister is counting on is only helping Ukraine destroy everything, and also sowing black seeds in the young souls of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u80	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, small numbers of government officials, Mr. Minister, the missing Prime Minister, who is very concerned about children, Deputy Prime Minister! I'm talking to you, although there are no last ones in the room, unfortunately. I think that when we were all in opposition together, we were just asking another government to sit here on the day of the government, to hear it. But until the minister was sent. I'd like to ask, what, there were no homeless people in Ukraine today who said that in just 14 years? It was homeless. But during the criminal regime of Kuchma, it intensified because the reasons for doing so have deepened. It's a general decline in the standard of living, it's unemployment, it's the necessity of getting paid, it's a drop in morals and everything else, it's total total corruption that's not overpowered right now, because we have the most disgraceful Attorney General who, without your consent, is sitting and ruling today, we have the illegals of all the other officials he appoints. And today I would like to tell the government what to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Did you say now, have you planned how many stadiums are planned to build, how many gyms, how many ice fields? Look, Lukashenko built an icefield in every district center. Just about a million dollars. All of it! It's today. How much they take for some jobs! They're taking it today! Next. We need to change the pay system of teachers and especially the first and middle classes to finance their activities in order to create normal conditions of learning. Children’s homes need to be opened to a different type of family. The list of professions taught by these children should be changed to become prestigious. And it's over. I'm addressing the President, I'm addressing the head of the Kiev City Administration. You and I have the children's Kyiv Palace of Children and Youth, where they are now taking the land. Minister, I'm paying attention! They're taking the land now. There are no references to the President. Here's the address of these parents, here's a lot of them, they're all wet. It means real. And it's already written there. It's written "Lira 2000" and it's already announced that you're renting your office space and so on. How long will the onset of all of this be? How much will we struggle with children breathing glue, sniffing and using drugs, running away from this reality?Oh, my God! I suggest, let's go back to the tech groups, to the ice palaces.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u82	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Comrade Mironenko, I didn't give you my word. Time is up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, we will. Victor Andryovich, I didn't give you my word! There's no time, there's no time. Look, zeros already. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u83	In fact, the current Government has declared Communist methods of addressing the problem and has indicated a systemic approach, but it is not systematic. And it can't come because it just promises in the name of future elections. A system-wide solution to this problem involves providing the means of all the programmes that are needed, and to that end, I certainly agree with Peter Nikolaevich, a nationalization of the strategic sectors of the economy must be ensured. We can come to this only by means of elections or by the insurgency of the people, who are convinced that people are already convinced, that the orange coup has been deceived, that the power of the oligarchs has been preserved, that the capitalist will be preserved and that the people will continue to suffer. I believe that it is useless to ask the Government to do so. I address the people of Ukraine. Let us at least take an example from Bolivia, which has provided nationalization through rebellion in its State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u84	Sorry, I'm not a reporter. You ask me later, there's a minute left, he's on. Dear colleagues! Let's figure it out. First. I guess we've been talking about these problems before and recently, literally, we've had parliamentary hearings here, they've been among these problems. And I think each of us will agree that the official figure of 36,000 homeless is far from real. I think she's in a higher order. And that's because, despite our one more disaster, that's literally what's happening to me right now is what's said to be the hottest, most recent data from our static central government for birth and mortality. The natural population growth of January-April this year continues to have a great balance, as accountants say. It was born in the country during this period, I am without a thousand, 138 thousand, and died 285. 138 and 285. It would appear that this is the data from the Central Statistical Office. The number of children would seem to be shrinking naturally, but the number of homeless is increasing. And this trouble, as the speakers here said, as it may not sound so bad, but this trouble for us, this disaster has come to us with the years of independence. And it's clear that there's enough work to do here and there's plenty to do. Of course, there are those who have said that we may need the Minister to report that we should not only mention this on June 1st, but perhaps it is time to announce not only one day of child protection but time to announce a five - year child protection. In order to address these infamous problems, which are hardly for the sovereign, independent social, democratic state that we have officially declared in our own, we have officially declared in our Constitution. And we will expect the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth and Sports to report to this maximum effort, along with other interested authorities, including Parliament. I think that, with the exception of the problem that's also raised here -- the trafficking of children that still needs a certain legislative settlement, the whole other set of issues related to the child's problems, the protection of it, the other issues in this area, we've already settled legislatively, we need to find only the funds to implement them. And in conclusion, because there were fair, completely fair remarks here, and the last speech by Yuri Carmazin, I'm just going to give you information for those who are watching Government Day, and he, as you know, is going on live, and I'm going to inform you that the government has officially sent to us on Government Day. And you'll figure it out for yourself. A list of cabinet members who were to be present at the Government's Day to consider the issue of childlessness in Ukraine and how to overcome this phenomenon: Tomenko Mikola Vasilovich, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine; Pavelenko Yuri Alexiyovich, Reporter; Zvaricz Roman Mikhajlovich, Minister of Justice; Bilozoz Oksana Volodymyrnýn – Minister of Culture and Tourism; Crvenkovski Evgen Alfredovich, Minister of Transport and Communications; Poliščuk Mikola Ephraim, Minister of Health; Žebrovski Boris Mikhajlovich, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Rosenko Pavel Volodymyrovich, First Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Romanuk Sergei Andryovich, First Deputy Minister of Economics; Moskal Gennaday Gennadijovich, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs; Matvichuk Vladimir Makarovitch, Deputy Minister of Economic Affairs; and Vice-President of the Ministry of Finance. [[He was, he is, because his next question is]] Well, the rest are said to be lower. You look at the government stand, and you'll come to a conclusion. Yes, dear colleagues, the first question of Government Day we have discussed with you. A break of 30 minutes is announced. We'll start work in 12 hours 48 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u85	We're continuing our work. We have to consider with you today the second issue of increasing the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine. As agreed, it is suggested. The information reporter has 15 minutes and 20 minutes to answer written and oral questions. The profile committee's presentation is 10 minutes. And let's take 40 minutes to debate. Thus, I invite you to speak to Health Minister Polishchuk Mikol Efraemovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. On June 26, the world’s public will determine the International Day against Drug Abuse. The United Nations has instituted this day to demonstrate the unity of the world community in the fight against drug abuse as a sign of a common understanding of the need and action on this social evil. At the end of the 20th century, at its UN General Assembly, discussing the issue of drug abuse itself, she noted that there was a clear need to change the emphasis on drug activity, these. is common in various countries during the last decade of the twentieth century. The wave of popularity of drugs that came to North America in the '70s, Western Europe in the '80s, and in our part of the world, Eastern Europe, in the '90s caused the need to understand exactly what needs to be done in society in order to stop the rapid development of this relatively new phenomenon of mass drug use. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, there are more than 85,000 people registered for drug abuse in Ukraine’s drug institutions in the year 1.01.05. By the mid - 1990s, more than 95 percent of drug users lived in cities. Since 1993-1994, there has been a tendency to increase the drinking weight of rural people using drugs for nonmedical purposes. Today, the process of increasing the number of drug addicts is equally characteristic of urbanized and agrarian areas. At the same time, the Dnipropetrov region remains an exceptionally high prevalence of drug use in the traditional region. In the region itself, the city of Curve Horn and Dnipropetrovsk differs at the highest rate of growth. In the city of Krivi Rig, the rate of increase in reported drug abuse is the highest in the country. The second group of territories with a relatively smaller but high prevalence of drug use is Odessa, Donetsk, Mikolai district, and the city of Kiev. Other areas include a third group where the prevalence of drug abuse is lower, but there is an increase in the number of patients. Thus, during the past 14 years, the number of people with drug problems seeking medical treatment has increased from 22,000 to 22,000. 466 in the '90s to 85,000. in late 2004. It is evident that only a fraction of those with drug problems are referred to for the necessary help, treatment, and rehabilitation in our country, as is the case worldwide. Attempts to really assess the prevalence of drug abuse in Ukraine by experts at the Ukrainian Institute for Clinical and Experimental Neurology and Psychiatrics and the Scientific and Clinical Rehabilitation Centre for Chemical Addiction are estimated at about 200,000 people in the country who are already ill and dependent on opiates. [[Kharkiv]] [[Kiev]] [[Mac and Heroin]] At the same time, practical observations show that the number of people who occasionally use drugs but who are not yet addicted is no less than 40 percent of the estimated number of people who are already ill. Thus, there are some 80 thousand inhabitants in Ukraine. individuals, opiate users. The total estimated number of Ukrainians using nonmedical opiates in 2003 can be estimated at up to 280,000, more than 550 per 100,000 inhabitants. The total number of users of all types of drugs is about 500,000. Age-long analysis of drug addicts shows that almost all of them are people of active age, and more than 78 percent are under the age of 30. The average age of drug users in Ukraine decreases annually by an average of 0.1 to 0.15 years. Individual calls for medical assistance in connection with the drug abuse of adolescents in the early 1990s, in the late 1990s, have changed to a systematic appeal of dozens of adolescent patients to provide them with drug treatment. About 60 percent of drug addicts are male, and the ratio between women and men is two to one. The young age of drug addicts provides a general low level of professional training. So the number of people who do not have a profession in various areas of Ukraine varies between 50 and 77 percent. At the same time, at least 38-45 percent of drug users do not have a permanent or even temporary job. Of course, professional problems are one of the main factors behind high levels of social disappropriation of drug users. According to Minmolodysport, there has been an increase in the number of inactive drug users, three women, and half - dozen. The available statistics and scientific estimates of the world’s recognized methods show that the number of drug users of various types of drugs in Ukraine will increase from six to 11 percent annually. At the beginning of our country’s drug problem, more young people were involved each year. For the last 3-4 years, we have seen that Ukraine has been experiencing processes similar to Western Europe and North America, when middle-aged people often also become drug users. As a result, the average age of drug users in Ukraine, who had decreased annually, began to grow. I would like to point out another simplification that is being used. We're used to saying one word at all: drug abuse. But we need to talk about "drugs." There's more than one phenomenon, and they're very different. For example, the user of opium or self-made scrapping is a representative of one group of people who use stimulants, mostly different characteristics of behavior and other levels of social adaptation; the user of inhalation drugs are, of course, representatives of another category that we qualify as children on the street. It is easy to understand that these different contingents also need different techniques of work. For leading societies, one of the indicators of success in drug work is, not the number of drug users registered, but the number of drug users eliminated. In this regard, I would like to introduce you to some numbers. The most optimistic estimate is that the number of drugs used annually by Ukrainian users is 500 tons. We may not be able to take this assessment into account with you, but we can develop our estimate for a hundred thousand militia-registered drug users. Once again, we're going to get a small number. More than 160 tons of narcotic raw material — poppy straw — is found on the illegal Ukrainian drug market every year. If you combine this figure with the number of poppy straws that were removed in 2004, according to the power output, it is about 30 tons. It is easy to estimate that this is much less than was actually used to make homemade opium in Ukraine. At the most optimistic estimate, no more than five to eight percent of all drugs in this class are eliminated by law enforcement agencies. Of course, under such conditions it is difficult to talk about the possibility of real prevention, since so far, for virtually all areas of Ukraine, poppy straw remains a major problem. So that's where the obvious challenge comes from: we have to make sure that the number of drugs that are removed from illegal circulation increases sharply to at least 40 to 50 percent of their actual quantity. The effectiveness of direct action on illegal supply should be calculated, not by the number of drug addicts arrested, but by the number of dozens of tons of narcotics removed from the drug ring. When we consider the problem of the impact on individual demand for drugs, we should take into account that this problem is directly related to the internal psychological problems of humans, and this is where prevention comes first. There are now completely normal targeted prevention programs in schools where both teachers and children and parents are involved at the same time. These three groups of people create a triangle that is essential for the prevention program to be effective. In order to teach children how not to become drug users, we need to first teach parents, because their simple theoretical knowledge that drugs are dangerous and harmful is not enough. It is important for parents to know what must be done to achieve the most important goal of drug prevention — to prevent the first use of drugs by a child. A person who has used drugs for the first time and who has not done so is qualitatively different. Whether the first most dangerous step has already been taken, or if it's crossed the line, that's the main goal of the school's prevention work. Another major problem in the social sphere is already related to another issue. Over the past year, more than 30,000 people have received medical, drug treatment because of the problems caused by drug use, but it is only the beginning of what needs to be done. There are no such things in the world. which could be taken and altered by drug behavior, which means stopping the use of drugs. Work. which leads to a change in drug behavior when you go back to normal life in virtually all the countries of the world looking like this: a small proportion of medical interventions and a very large proportion of socio-psychological, rehabilitation programs. Today, according to the Ministry of Youth and Sports, there are 19 centres for the resocialization of drug - addicted young people in Ukraine. Less than 1 percent of those who needed further resolidation after medical treatment were able to receive similar help. It turns out that almost all those in need of socio-psychological rehabilitation in the country can't get it. Appropriately, after medical care, drug addicts directly turn to the same environment that they have come out of, without any new social skills, without new behavioral skills that are essential in principle for society to be able to expect real results. Some preparatory work has already been done. For example, the methodological recommendations for this work have already been approved, involving experts from several ministries, including the Ministry of Health, religious representatives, and other organizations that have already accumulated the experience of rehabilitation work. Work is being done on standards of activity in this field. Yet, much more must be done, including financial ones, to create a real network of rehabilitation centers throughout the country in order for a drug addict to have a wide variety of and quality choices, where after medical care he would necessarily turn and get the help he needed, not a pill — a legend that we have ever imagined. And another very important thing. To work fully in the drug industry and in the leadership of the state, parliamentarians and local administrations need specific information about the real state of things. We need a monitoring system that allows us to start to track down what's going on in the drug and alcohol sectors in our society, and that's the least of what's needed. A serious challenge is to create an early warning system for drug and alcohol problems. What does that mean? We've already said that classes of narcotics, such as stimulants, are gradually ousting out traditionals for our country. This means that in a drug situation, you can now predict a series of extremely complex and qualitative changes. Such changes in the use spectrum will cause significant differences, and other appropriate actions will be needed. We need to monitor the drug and alcohol situation and analyze it and provide a timely, scientifically sound forecast for society so that adequate action can be taken at the right time. In conclusion, budget funding is needed for the national drug and alcohol observatory next year. This is also our shared task, for it may be better for us to know that without complete, honest information, virtually, no effective policy is possible. To conclude, only a modern and systematic approach to the drug problem will result. the consequences. In the world, many examples of how countries have managed to move far enough in a positive direction against drugs. First of all, these are actions focused on the European continent. There are many positive things in the United States. We are now open to full communication and are able to bring about a positive world. Our joint efforts in the field should certainly lead us to control what is happening in the drug field. And we can save the lives of thousands of people who are still alive today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u87	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. Yes, please sign up for questions. In the meantime, answer the letter. 20 minutes. Mikola Efremovich, in writing, please. Are there written references?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u90	First question of the One Ukraine Party MP: what are the measures taken by the Government to reduce the number of drug addicts? In accordance with international treaties, 240 narcotic drugs and 23 precursors are controlled in Ukraine, which are defined by the list of narcotic drugs of precursors approved by Cabinet of Ministers of May 6, 2000, No. 770. With regard to the 50 particularly dangerous narcotic drugs for the reason they are used in medical practice, there are definite measures of a prohibited nature. To develop the only methods of research into drugs and psychotropic substances that meet international standards. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has established the Coordination of the Interministerial Council on Judicial Expertise, which has been attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health, the Committee on Health Control. Kyiv and Kharkiv Research Institutes of Forensic Research.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u91	Please, Sergey Zizhkov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u92	Sergey Zizhkov, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister, the drug "Tramadol" leads to drug addiction. Visitors to many discos are extruded by this particular drug. The price in the black market is given to the merchants. What are the measures taken by the Ministry of Health regarding the free sale of Tramadol? Is there any understanding of what the Ministry of Internal Affairs is doing to test the trade in tramadol in pharmacies? And another question. Social base, unemployment, and poverty are not the main factors, unlike the previous issue that we have considered in widespread drug abuse. Please tell me, the commercials that exist in films, what other forms are there that are conducive to the spread of drug abuse, which state should stop its attention in order to stop their influence on young people?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u93	Thank you, distinguished national MP. I want to answer you right now about the trampoline. You know that tramadol is an analgesic, a fairly strong analgesic that is used in intense pain, including in patients with cancer. At the same time, tramadol also causes drug addiction. I can tell you that I'm now in the middle of a medical examination. For this week, I think it will be signed by the Minister of Health that the tramadol will be treated as a drug that will be given special control prescriptions. And we're going to do it, we're going to do it this week, it's going through legal expertise now. It's about advertising. I think you all know how bad people are, how bad they are for us and drugs, how bad they are for alcohol, and how bad they are for tobacco. And I'm counting on all of us with you to accept the changes in advertising and stop advertising this evil. But without the Supreme Council, without your support, we won't do anything about it. As an MP, you know, three times he laid out the tobacco law, which included advertising. The first reading was going very well, and on the second reading he did not go through. As a result, I will ask for the support of the national MPs to also advertise the scourge of the evil that is now in Ukraine to ban both external and radio television, especially in the time available to the general public.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u94	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u95	What has been done by the government and is planned to prevent production in Ukraine, import into its territory, and distribution of narcotics in Ukraine. I would like to say that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the circulation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, their analogues and precursors, the circulation of narcotics, psychotropic substances, precursors included in list one, the table of four censuses in Ukraine is only allowed for medical use or for scientific research, expert or operational research activities or for educational purposes in order established by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the relevant central executive authorities. The Ukrainian Law on the Licensing of Certain Economic Activities, such as Development, Production, Production, Production, Storage, Transportation, Acquisition, Import, Release, Destruction of Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, Precursors, and Cultivation, Use of Substances, Plants containing Narcotic Drugs, are subject to licensing. I would like to say and point out to the people that in 2000, the government of Victor Yashchenk proposed that the development of a new state policy on drugs and alcohol be proposed. She had been reconciled twice at the Ministry of Health, and twice she was stopped and not passed by people. It's about the alcohol business. As a result, we are thinking of turning to that question and asking the Supreme Council to support us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u96	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u97	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to a comrade in the Novak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u98	Please, Vladimir Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u99	Dear Mikola Efraemovich, I know you as an objective person. But what I'm saying is, after listening to your information, I can't understand one thing: the amount of drug trafficking in Ukraine is increasing. The growth of areas, areas sown with poppy and hemp is recorded annually. Today, the drug process is virtually out of control. On the other hand, you find that the drug situation in Ukraine has tended to stabilize. The number of drug users registered in the last two years remains practically one, and the number of patients with drug problems diagnosed for the first, third year in a row is decreasing. There's a leak coming out. What kind of statistics is that? And the second. I think there's probably no concept of government policy in Ukraine after all. Here's the National Coordinating Board to fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u100	Thank you for the interesting questions. I'd like to say that, I told you before, we're going to re-establish and develop a policy on alcohol and drugs, and we're going to re-establish the one that was developed in 2000. And the fact that this has not been done since 2003, I think you realize that it's not just my fault, but it's my fault and all of us, including the people's deputies, that's what happened. Regarding the prevalence of drug abuse and the data available, not only is there one Ministry of Health, but there are many other departments. These are both the offices of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Health registers and the Ministry of Health conducts a medical process. And I stressed that the number of people treated for drug abuse is high, but because there is no comprehensive approach to such rehabilitation after treatment, it does not, of course, contribute to the decline in the number of drug addicts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u101	A letter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u102	Question of the Communist Party MP: "As has been known recently in the face of the trend in the number of persons with a dependence on a material and technical base and. The drug foundation has been cut down almost three times. What measures are being taken by the Ministry of Health in order to prevent the reduction or consolidation of local drug institutions and the creation of sufficient medical units within these institutions?" The MOH’s position and offer are the only reasons that the vast majority of areas have managed to preserve the drug network. Such efforts have been halted in the Montenegrin region since the new government, in the Dnipropetrov region for several years, gradually destroying a number of drug departments, and in a highly drug - related city where the Curve Rig has been destroyed by a city’s drug dispenser for unknown reasons with one of the psychiatric institutions. By 2005, the Ministry of Health and Health, jointly with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, had conducted a drug investigation in the Dnipropetrovsk region and separately in the city of Krivi Rig. Appropriate proposals for urgent measures to improve the state of narcotics are addressed to the head of Dnipropetrov’s district administration, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, and to the head of the state administration of Krivi Rig.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u103	Please, Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u104	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", constituency. We are discussing today not a problem - we are discussing a disaster today, and we need to be aware of it, and I am very grateful that you are linking this problem with alcoholism. Indeed, these are two sides of the same medal. And this problem will never be solved by the Minister or the Ministry - the problem must be solved by the State, not by words, but primarily by the system. I am very upset that I do not see the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Culture today in the debate on this issue. Only together can this problem be solved. I'd like to hear from you how much money you need and how much your ministry has received. That's the first question. Second question. The idea of advertising itself does not solve the issue. You have to change the situation on TV at all, because three seconds of the roller coaster makes less than one hour film. And most importantly, your attitude toward the forced treatment of alcoholism and drug abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Thank you for asking. In fact, I completely agree with you that this is a problem for everyone, not just the ministries -- it's completely everyone who understands what a disaster in Ukraine today -- drug addiction, alcoholism and tobacco, including. I want to tell you that every step, even a three-minute roll, it can in a child's mind, in a young person's mind, and it's drug addiction that is very often young people, and alcoholism, can bring a lot of negative things. And we're advocating that there's social advertising, that there's advertising that shows what's in the country and how to deal with it. Of course, you know that access to social advertising is extremely difficult today because the media are mostly privatized and everyone is trying to work for profit. Because of this, I reiterate that today in the Cabinet of Ministers we view this problem as a complex one and we will be developing just such a concept of common policy that brings everything together. And at the meeting, I would like to say, to emphasize, the President of Ukraine said that the responsibility for these issues would be on. The first ones in the region will be the bearers. I think here, apart from the first person, we all have to take responsibility for this. Thank you. So there's a relative. It should be done with caution, but you do understand that there are laws, there is mental health care, and there is coercion. I'm a proponent of the fact that in disease that poses a danger to society, there should be compulsory treatment. But this needs to be reconciled by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u106	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u107	Let's move on. "A year's fixed--a party. The National Party's deputy faction - crossing the territory of Ukraine of the Balkan and Afghan drug and raw materials routes contributed to the transformation of Ukraine into a transit state. Since the drug business today has far behind the proceeds of arms trafficking, banking schemes, prostitution, is there an understanding at the governmental level of all the dangers of this phenomenon? What is Ukraine's involvement in international operations against the spread of this plague?" Between 13 and 20 September 2004, the Ministry of State Customs, together with the State Customs Administration of the State Border Service and the Bank of Ukraine, conducted an annual interstate operation "Canal" aimed at the implementation of State policy on countering illegal migration, smuggling and smuggling. ensuring a proper barrier to the penetration of Ukraine’s drugs On the average, 3,395 domestic workers were involved, 418 border guards, and 373 customs officers, and 363 joint operational groups were formed. I would like to say that 633 citizens — 614 citizens of Ukraine and 17 nationals of the SND — have been detained for illegal drug activities. During the course of the operation, 60 drug groups were eliminated, 468 pounds [468 kg] of narcotic drugs, including 141 kg of poppy straw, 320 kg of marijuana, 545 grams of opium, and over 35 grams of heroin. In the course of the operation, law enforcement agencies strengthened their monitoring of foreigners ’ entry and stay in Ukraine. As a result of action taken, 148 people were called to administrative responsibility, and 20,000 dollars and nearly $1,500 were removed from the offenders. In view of this, an international deterrence operation was initiated to counter the smuggling of heroin of Afghan origin, the law enforcement agencies of the United States, Turkey, and the countries of Europe. This document documented 19 drug transfers across Ukraine’s state border, 3 of them at airports. Eleven criminal cases were violated, 21 drug dealers were detained, and 16 kg of narcotics and psychotropic substances were removed, 12 poppy straws, 3.7 kg of marijuana, 180 grams of amphetamines, 6 grams of heroin, and extractive opium. So I would like to say that in 2004 more than 520 drug trafficking and psychotropic substances were detected by strong structures in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u108	Please, Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u109	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Mikola Efremovich, I'd like to ask you this: the world in different countries is different, for example, in the same country, in Spain, especially Portugal, there was a time when there was no punishment at all for drugs, but there was a time where we could go, and there was an injection or something. In Southeast Asia, they shot the other way around. How do you feel about it if, say, those who have already been caught twice have been identified as a criminal, if convicted, we do not have a shot, so to life imprisonment? That's one thing. The other one. I don't know, I don't know. You know, in principle, the drug is released from drugs for six months. If this is the right information that I know so much from earlier information, then what do you think if.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Leukyanko. I’d like to say that I’ve seen a lot of sick drug addicts, and I’ve seen diseases that have arisen in the face of drug abuse. And they're really miserable sick people. I absolutely share with you my vision that drug dealers, distributors should be punished very severely. As to how much it should be. It seems to me that both Parliament and the government, and we all have to talk about what it should be, it should be very, very strict actions. And I'm surprised that sometimes, in the struggle for human rights and for the liberation of a human being, they come forward and ask for the release of a drug distributor. But a drug addict is a person who needs to be treated. Of course, it is extremely difficult to cure a drug addict. As a result, I said that there should be treatments for a long time, both in medicine and then in rehabilitation. And in that sense, I can say, pretty good results show, including the church. It takes everyone, both formal and informal, to heal people. The younger the child tries drugs, the faster he develops addiction and the corresponding disease. I was literally in Children's Hospital number one on Saturday, where about 30 children between three months and seven years of age are HIV-infected and AIDS-infected, left with HIV-infected and drug-addict mothers, parents, infectious drug addicts. One of them left two children a year or so later. Of course, people like that have to be applied, I think, strictly. And we should show our humanity in the prevention and prevention of it, not in the promotion and protection of drug traffickers, drug dealers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u111	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. No, it's all right. Sit down, please. From the committee, the head of the Subcommittee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u112	Mikhail Sithina, People's Party faction, 74 constituency, Carpathians. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government. Fighting drug abuse is an extremely difficult duty of civil society, even for the richest nations. In economic conditions. It is not easy for government authorities to resist the onslaught of drug abuse. Despite this, the drug situation in Ukraine has developed a tendency to stabilize. The number of patients registered in the last two years remains at virtually one level. And the number of drug - related patients diagnosed for the first year and the third year in a row is declining. If the figure was 22 per 100,000 in 2002, it fell to 13.9 in 2004. However, Ukraine continues to be one of the high - drug countries. The number of drug - related patients registered on January 1, 2005, is more than 85,000, but you understand that this is official data. Clearly, only part of the real contingent that seeks the necessary assistance, treatment, and rehabilitation is being accounted for. A total of more than half a million users of all types of drugs may be identified by experts. Of particular concern is the distribution of narcotics among children and adolescents. The average age of drug users in Ukraine decreases annually. Children’s, youth, and student environments are the most vulnerable to the risks of consumption. The spread of drug abuse among this population category has become an epidemic, especially in the youth environment. Consider: 1 out of every 10 schoolchildren and students uses drugs. Overcoming drug abuse or even its essential limitations are extremely important to ensuring a favourable environment for society’s development. Ukraine still lacks a concept of government policy on alcohol and drugs. In December 2003, the Ministry of Health reported on the completion of this concept at parliamentary hearings on the socio-economic problems of HIV-AIDS, drug abuse and alcoholism in Ukraine. However, it has not been accepted to this day. There is virtually no coordination of measures in this area and of the National Coordinating Council against Drug Addiction at the Cabinet of Ministers, which has virtually eliminated this work. Dear colleagues, for help. The last meeting of the Coordinating Board was held on July 11, 2003. And in this regard, her activity provides that meetings should be held not less than once a quarter. The question is, What does this body do? How effective are such methods of work, and is it needed at all? At the same time, however, a number of problems in the fight against drug abuse are not chronically resolved, and there is no current monitoring of the drug and alcohol situation in Ukraine. As a result, we have no clear idea of the actual state of the problem and the necessary information basis for making full political decisions. An early warning and response system for the alcohol and drug situation in Ukraine is not in place. An analysis of trends in Ukraine shows a steady increase in drug smuggling, as well as an increase in domestic illicit production. Annually, there is an increase in areas sown with poppy and cannabis, which are used to produce opium, hashish, and marijuana. The second year is the implementation of State policy in the area of combating illicit drug, psychotropic substances and precursors for 2003-2010, which was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Order of June 4, 2003. However, in the absence of specific quantitative guidelines for such measures and the State’s control system, it is difficult to judge the effectiveness of law enforcement work by removing drugs and related substances from illicit circulation. According to the report, 26.5 tons of narcotics and psychotropic substances were removed from circulation. Is that a lot or a lot? Given the actual volumes of drug use per year, more than half a million drug addicts, I don't think it's too high. With regard to problems in helping patients, there is no doubt that attempts to destroy the region’s drug service must be stopped and that further cuts, retraining, or unification of Ukraine’s local drug institutions must be banned. It would be useful to increase the positive experience of work combined with the program, and the socio-psychological and medical rehabilitation of patients with drug abuse and their relatives, which was developed by experts at the Kiev City Drug Hospital, Sociotherapy. Among drug specialists in other regions with high prevalence of drug abuse. This is primarily the Dnipropetrovska, Odessa, Mikolaiivska and Zaporozhi region. Yet, treatment is just one of the ingredients of this process. The specific problem is that it only becomes medical at a certain stage. Basically, it's a psychological problem for young people who find themselves in drugs to solve their problems. After a statement from the drugstore, these people are back to their normal lives, and they need no longer specialized medical and psychological care, but systemic socio-psychological work in institutions and social services, whose development is the Ministry of Ukraine's youth and sports tasks. The network of such facilities is in place in Ukraine. As the minister said in his speech, 19 centres of socialization have already been established to provide systemic assistance to drug addicts. But this is not enough, their numbers should be much higher, and the aid available not only to the inhabitants of large cities but also to the population, especially the rural area. On time and on the issue of improving the quality of assistance in these institutions, the solution of which is directly dependent on the introduction of state standards in the field of drug rehabilitation and their psycho-social assistance and rehabilitation programmes, which the Ministry of Youth and Sports has been working on in recent years. And I would also like to take a separate look at the basic primary measures of prevention, which, unfortunately, is given very little attention by the State. Society lacks coordination of education strategies with policies, services, families, local communities, media, and other healthy lifestyle strategies. It is known that single and distinct shares and the distribution of teaching materials have little effect on a potential and already a real drug addict. Preventive action packages should cover all areas of preventive work, from the beginning of drug use to the reduction of its negative effects on society, including information, population education, early intervention and counselling, treatment, rehabilitation, prevention of relapses and social reintegration, while ensuring timely assistance and access to appropriate services for different populations. The promotion of a healthy lifestyle must go beyond school and predominate in the media, where there are powerful public - minded values. Public control over the information materials currently printed in individual publications is needed on central and local television channels that openly promote the use of alcohol and tobacco, violence, pornography, and other negative aspects of life. As an object of our attention, youths need to find themselves in an environment where everything is pierced by the spirit of the fight against drugs. Such an environment should be the entire society that will contribute to the growth of young people in the pursuit of a full and healthy life - style, a desire for self - realization, and a measure of success. Dear colleagues, the committee has introduced a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the strengthening of the fight against drug abuse in Ukraine, which has been prepared as a result of the consideration of the issue and will be further developed by taking into account the discussions and proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u113	Thank you, sit down, please. No questions asked. It's only a question of a report from the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, we have 40 minutes to discuss the problem. Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u114	Dear Lord Chairman! Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, Ukraine has turned from a country that has mostly been used to transit Afghan and Balkan drugs into a drug-consumer country. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on December 31, 2004, there were nearly 125,000 people who allowed nonmedical use of drugs. And given the longevity of this environment, we can assume that the actual number of drug addicts already exceeds 1 percent of the total population. The significant differences between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, and sociological research also indicate that drug addicts’ mistrust with government medical institutions is preserved and that the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are deliberately overestimated. The former management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has deliberately distributed indicators in separate priority directions that have nothing to do with objective reality. Yes, in 2004, the number of drug crimes detected was 65740, 14.5 percent more than in 2003. At the same time, the number of documented drug sales increased only by one and a half percent, i.e. the increase was ensured by the criminalization of ordinary consumers for storing drugs for their own needs. In individual regions, the number of criminal cases committed per year was equal to or even higher than the number of persons in charge. It should be noted that during 2004, there was a 15 - percent increase in the number of units involved in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. At the same time, their efficiency decreased by 9 percent. So the fight against the drug business turned into a fight against drug addicts. Most of the drug patients were in prison instead of hospitals. This shameful practice, which has claimed thousands of lives of Ukrainian citizens, must be held accountable. There is also a problem in the Ministry of Health system. With regard to the treatment of drug addicts, the last few times, the former authorities did nothing to increase the number of specialized outpatient facilities. In some regions, there are between 50 and 70 beds, even more people with drug problems. It seems that the old authorities in the MOH of Ukraine have done everything they can to simplify the legal circulation of drugs. For example, a drug like Tramadol, an abuse that leads to drug addiction, has been almost unpunished through the drug network. The only excuse for the IMF can be that. I know there's still no single system for countering the drug business. Internal Affairs personnel are forced to stop their work and pass it on to the BSS at a time when the channels of sale are coming out to foreigners or to foreign structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u115	Thank you. Can't hear you, microphone's off. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u116	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Today, Ukraine certainly has another very strong problem associated with the fight against drug abuse. And, of course, what the government is reporting here today, and the minister has been talking about these problems, they run into some statistics. Today, if you take statistics, in Ukraine 160,000, or more, drug addicts. First of all, statistics are today, as they were everywhere, not objective. Today, about 2 million drug addicts in Ukraine are confirmed by independent institutions. And it really is. If you look at the reasons that today is the cause, of course, maybe a lot of reasons, but one of them is essentially how much power has lost control over this issue over the past 10 years, these are billions of dollars. There are so many interested people in this direction that drug abuse in Ukraine will flourish. Moreover, in our view, Ukraine has become a good consumer and a market for narcotics, and it has been very easy to go to Ukraine, especially because of our customs it was possible to do everything: both weapons and atomic bombs, and all of that, not to mention drugs for which huge transport efforts were not needed. Natalia Lukyanova, director of the Fund for the Prevention of Chemical Addictions and SPIDs, believes that the cost of lowering programs will be talked about, drug damage, and now 90% is not financed by Ukraine. So the question is, who needs to fight the drug abuse of Ukraine, the HlV-infected, Ukraine, or those institutions that fight? 90% say that people from abroad, not their own government, not their own President, Parliament and others. The faction of Ukraine’s Socialist Party insists that today’s government day should benefit the President, the Prime Minister tomorrow, for the next 10 days to respond to today’s, today’s events, that problem. Or it's a clear statement to the law enforcement authorities, the B.S.A., the D.A. To be concrete and then we will realize that today will benefit our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u117	Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi, Group Democratic Ukraine. Prepare Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u118	Thank you, Jaroslav Suhi, the city of Zaporozhye. Respectful colleagues, the very fact that the government’s future efforts to combat drug abuse will be reported by the minister of health, tell us how far orange authorities today are from the most pressing problems that are now seriously threatening the sovereignty and integrity of the Ukrainian State. Not mythical separatists, not the thick oligarchs that someone is going to sink fat out of there, but the drug abuse is taking more and more away from us every day, maiming young people, 100 times more than Chernobyl and Afghanistan combined. The Prime Minister or at least the Deputy Prime Minister would be here to report. Because drug addiction is not just a health problem, it is scary at the scale of the future disaster, social, genetic, and political distress. It is no longer clear that the extent of drug trafficking in Ukraine has reached a level that poses a serious threat to national security itself. Whole urban areas and populated areas literally turn into zones of alienation in our eyes. And the scariest part is that in a wide, well - organized, branched network of oil companies, Ukrainian universities and schools are increasing. Thus, the future of the Ukrainian nation is laid on the scales. What do you want to do? First, one little trailer. Dear colleagues, I propose to cancel the days of the government with such an appearance of government officials. It's a disgrace to ourselves, it can't be. First. What do people say? People say that law enforcement is underworked, they usually show small distributors and those kilograms in the reports of amphetamines and other narcotics that nobody cares about because they don't show up as the organizer of these narcotics. After all, it's not the IMF or the BSS, they're never going to be unemployed, and they're never going to be as grateful to society as they are, I know it by themselves. And that's not the main thing, it's not the problem of dealing with drug trafficking, because you and I know other cases, the cases of the strangely lenient attitude of judges from different institutions towards those who have been detained and brought to justice by police at risk of life and health, and then these people are released. Amendments and additions to the Criminal Code should therefore be made immediately, which would dramatically increase the responsibility for the spread of drugs, especially for involving minors. The other one. Absolutely inactive ministries of the humanitarian block. Here should be the apologists of "grindjoism," the necessary art actions, youth festivals, sports and entertainment theatres of anti-drug use, the need for brilliant high-art videos of social advertising. I'm sure the Supreme Council will agree to allocate funds for this kind of effort to commercial television channels and the government should not concentrate, and the main drug abuse is an expression of the senselessness and hopelessness of young people in market conditions. So once again, we're going to talk about the need to strengthen social policy in order to minimize the social impact of the transformation of society, the need for a comprehensive approach and suss.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich’s challenge to Kabminu’s address is fair, but the hall also needs to be looked at. Please, Sergey Shevchuk, faction of Block Timoshenko. Prepare Vadim Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention not so much to the issues of prevention and to the warning, which is understandable and logical, but to the other question, to the large and heavy contingent of those who have not been helped by our prevention because it was ineffective. Sadly, they are now isolated into a socially isolated, divinative group of exiles, which is growing each year. In addition to the traditional illegal practices that are severely punishable by the Ukrainian Penal Code, this group of individuals has acquired not only signs of social degradation but also physical degradation, such as tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, and venereal diseases. Each of these diseases is defined by Ukrainian legislation as a socially dangerous disease that threatens the health and life of the surrounding, so - called well - being citizens. I'll mention at least the phenomena of AIDS terrorism, or the deliberate infection of other people, or the deliberate involvement of children of wealthy parents, or children of different levels of government. How can we deal with those today besides repressive action? Are there any other recipes? In many parts of the world, drug replacement therapy has been introduced for a long time — a regulated assignment of drug substitutes under the control of the drug service for the purpose of socializing, to control, to alleviate the suffering of such patients, whose lives we know are short - lived. However, the very idea of surrogate therapy causes a storm of objections, objections from the point of view of the average citizen, but not understandable to experts who are called upon to stop the epidemic of numbness. The experience of drug services in a number of regions of Ukraine in recent years has shown that substitution therapy may be an additional reserve of influence on a number of allegedly incurable drug addicts. And in a situation of failure, you just can't ignore that extra reserve. Of course, it requires clear discipline, supervision, and strict control over the circulation of surrogacy drugs. But this is a question of healthy people, specialists, police personnel, the Security Service, who together can say yes to drug abuse in Ukraine, we've taken advantage of every measure of influence we can have today. I believe that the Ministry of Health should not wait, not take the position of an observer, but rather exercise some courage and confidence in drug professionals in the matter of surrogacy. And I would also like to make an appropriate thesis on the draft decision on today's issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u121	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, faction of Ukraine. He will be followed by Igor Šurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u122	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. I don't understand why we got one question into two parts. After all, childlessness and drug abuse are twins. It's the same thing. But, of course, it's better than four hours than two hours. Well, that's what happened. That's why I want to say one thing. I fully agree with the statement and view of this issue with my colleague, Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoleevich. After he spoke, there's practically nothing I can do on this stand. Because everything he talked about was true. So I'm going to add a little bit of myself. What are children? Let's just think about it. Children today are the people of Ukraine tomorrow. You'll have to think about what question we're considering today. Today we are looking at the future of our country. What happened was good or bad, it was already there. But what happens is what we're talking about today. Of course, I'm offended that my favorite city has been told a lot today. This is the first and last time Krivbass will be spoken of like this, the town of Curve Horn. But I think that the new governor of Ehanur's Yuri Ivanovich, and the mayor of the city, the executive committee will take action, and yet this city will no longer sound. Because the reasons for it to be the worst and the region of Ukraine are not. It's a city where wages are, where there's a normal working class, everything works. That's why? That's why? We have to answer anyway. Why is there such a thing as drug abuse? I think everyone, before that, was acting as a drug, which is the whole consequence. This is the drug treatment facility, it's all an investigation. We need to see how Cosma Prutkov is deep: why does all this happen? Why did we have both TTOs and BGTOs before school began, at a very different time, and before school, 15 minutes of physical exercise? I mean. Even then, children knew that it was necessary to do this. Second. There was no unemployment. For a week a man does not work; they come to him and say, Why? Now what? Shand dances, it's okay, the whole country is dancing and singing. So what do we want from you? And what I'm saying is, it's really a child sport. If the athletes don't have what they're letting go, and they don't work, because the roof leaks, there's no instrument. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u123	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u124	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The very fact that Ukraine is one of the world’s leaders at the rate of the spread of drug abuse forces us to give a firm answer today: Will today’s day be beneficial in real ways to overcome drug abuse or not? I think we have more negative trends than positive trends. I fully support what Jaroslav Suhi said. Why? A year ago, a committee of profile initiated parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council. I remember that crowded hall. Scientists were speaking, representatives of public organizations were speaking, and national MPs were speaking. Order for 23 Supreme Council posts, a guide for the government. Today, the government will find reasons to do so. That's what it says in the Supreme Council's decree, which was voted on by former opposition representatives of our Ukraine's bloc, they're in power today. There are things you don't have to spend a penny on. I am addressing the minister of health. The 11th paragraph said, "In order to ensure the full-fledged training of drug doctors, the Ministry of Health has been tasked with re-establishing the internet in the field of drug medicine. Paradox. The Minister of Health issues Order 81, which bears signs of anticonstitutionality, whose purpose is to all students in the village! And today, when we talk about combating drug abuse, when we get the task of creating conditions for the preparation of a drug doctor, nothing is done to date, we continue to print orders that carry anti-national content. The Ochmatdit facility of the Ministry of Health, whose efforts have been made by the Social Democrats to bring this order to an end today, is commended. The president understood the problems of the children. Let's not do substitutions. If we want to create normal tasks, we need those normal tasks to be created by people who don't break the law. Today, the minister violates the Constitution, makes up for the position of a national deputy, and combines the position of minister and issues questionable orders. And I'd like to tell everyone. If another order is put into effect, which is secret to the processing of health facilities and health-care providers will form a state, they will never see to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u125	Leonid Isaiah, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Catherine Fomenco.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u126	The faction of regions, the city of Harikov. Respectable comrades! Of course, there is no time to make a statement, so yes and if that statement is necessary. The whole world does not find the problem of such drug abuse, which is said to be shared by the most intelligent, most worthy scientists and organizations, at last by political figures. I would like to express my point of view on three, in my view, not entirely thoughtful or, more simply, unresolved issues. They're different in importance. Drug abuse, as has been said today, is a disease that develops at a young age. Teenagers and young people are known to have less motivation to be healthy than adults, but among young people, the issues of success, prestige, attractiveness, well-being, friendship, companionship are very relevant. That is why anti-drug prevention in the adolescent youth environment should be the goal of creating an unpopular, unfavourable, unattractive image of a drug addict. [[I'm punching.]] In the minds of young people, the axiom must be claimed: the drug is a voluntary disability, it is a failure. I don't understand. Special attention should be paid to uncovering the myth that the lifestyles of young people's role models are pop music, artists, football players. Remember, there's more to Maradon than there is to the Pacific. Thus, the use of drugs is inextricably linked. Is it not clear to anyone that when a popular young person uses drugs, it is no different than a deep creative crisis and a possible personality breakdown? And we have those heroes. It is therefore necessary to develop the existing network of institutions to promote youth creativity and the possible sensitization of children and adolescents. The “Regions of Ukraine” finds that local governments, together with public organizations, must develop and implement special programmes to prevent drug, alcohol and nicotine addiction in educational institutions, clubs, youth resting places. It will result if a large number of these institutions are fully funded by both the State and the producers of alcohol, tobacco products, because not all parents have the opportunity to send children to all these circles and so on and so on. The next question is briefly: it's a state programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u127	Thank you. Catherine Fomenko, People's Party faction. Behind her is Ivan Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u128	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected members of the government, respected voters, the second Ukrainian Chernobyl became HIV, AIDS, and drug addiction. And today, the IMF has 116,000, and international viewers have 2 million. Please tell me, did anyone think, ‘ Why do you have to run the numbers? ’ Who counted how many drug addicts we have in Ukraine? And I thought it might be in vain to call the second Chernobyl. Because our country already has a terrible world when it was covered, when all these numbers were decreasing when they were counterfeiting. I want to give you a very good example: I went to my district, I had one of the agricultural areas. This problem has already reached agricultural areas. For example, one of these statistics is that of 2002 - 13 drug addicts, 2003 - 29, 2004 - 40. 2005, 5 months - 46. In geometric progress, we have a growing number of patients. And you know, when I tried to find out, 25 years old, he died of an overdose. And when I tried to find out officially: How was the cause of death identified? They said it was alcohol poisoning. And I thought, that's why 116 today has an official figure, and 2 million are the ones that we actually have in the state. So today, first of all, we have to recognize that this is a problem. It's not just a problem, our country is on the verge of a drug disaster. If we get into this disaster, dear, we can't get out of it, because only the US spends $40 billion a year on this problem, it's one and a half national budget with local budgets every year. If we fall, Your Honor, we will not be able to get out of this problem. First. And the second. If we are to realize that we are, in fact, on the verge of a drug disaster, we need to take a series of very national steps to overcome this problem. First. Develop and approve the 2006-2010 National Programme. Above all, to find out the funding mechanism by making the general budget of the State budget a priority in overcoming drug abuse. The other one. Prepare an annual report to the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council on the status of the treatment prospects for drug addicts in Ukraine. Third. Develop and implement social support mechanisms in all components of the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts in Ukraine. You know, I've been preparing for this performance, the average age of a drug addict for 21 years. You see, I thought that this was my son’s age, that God did not give anyone such a tragedy in the family, because it is not a Ukrainian family problem, it is a problem of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u129	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u130	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues and voters. Today, we have heard many unpleasant, painful, harsh words about how negative phenomena, such as drug abuse and childlessness, bring us closer to national tragedy, threaten the security of the state. Regrettably, objective reasons and the distant and negative effects of these phenomena are being silenced. At the same time, I am glad that more and more colleagues of 14 - year - olds, in power and near it, have ruined the socialist system of education, education, and health care, and are now seeming to see. Let's eat, let's see. What should we do? As the predecessors have pointed out, we really need to recognize the extent of this threat, because it is not hundreds of thousands, but several million of our fellow countrymen, their families, their families, their families and loved ones, who suffer from childlessness and not just drug abuse, but the drug abuse of a society that is not accidental. Secondly, we need to rely more fully on our country's experience and science in this matter. As for science, we have much knowledge and experience. Disadapted children, medical and social rehabilitation of drug addicts, prevention of juvenile delinquency. Today, there is a need for re-thinking and creative development of socio-prevention, treatment-recovery and correctional work, especially the need for radical political, legal, financial and organizational measures to help eliminate the causes of drug abuse, homelessness, begging and other negative phenomena. As for the institutions to do this work, we had enough of them. And most of all, today, it's not the final adoption of children's, medical, defence and sports institutions, it's the preservation, retraining and not the hope of the children's towns that six of us are recommending the West to create, but to preserve what we had and to ensure their normal functioning. With regard to the legal principles of this work, I would like to ask the government to finally consider the Social Work Act, which would be a framework for solving many other legal issues in this very relevant area. And finally, the obvious truth is that in a sick society, there can't be a healthy generation. He usually needs a fair, humane social relationship and an appropriate social and legal and cultural policy. That is the complex approach that needs to be addressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Every year in Ukraine, drug addicts commit more than 10,000 crimes. More than 80 percent of drug addicts are not working anywhere, and most of them are not learning, so it is clear that the only way is for them to get the next dose. This disaster did not pass through the city of Kirov. For example, in the private sector of Kyrovgrad over the past month, more than two dozen apartment thefts and murders were committed. The drug industry is in a frenzy, since drug sales are linked to 1 out of every 5 crimes. Last year, more than a thousand illegal drug crimes were detected in the territory of Kyrovgrad. Thirty - two centres of illicit drug production and use have been eliminated. Eight cases of drug theft have been detected, including those who sold morphine to those who had been treated for the same crime. In the area, 39 criminal groups and one organized criminal group were detected and eliminated, and two drug laboratories in the cities of Svetlovodsk and Alexandria were discovered. It is also a terrible problem today that drugs have become widely distributed in educational institutions. In two weeks of this year, police officers discovered 45 illegal drug traffic among students and students. As a result, 11 criminal cases were committed in the area. Both in Kirovgrad and throughout Ukraine, this tribulation is taking seven steps. Thus, prevention of drug abuse among children and adolescents is of particular concern. Experts today claim that special programs are needed to help the sick. Similar programs would allow drug addicts to be eliminated, both physically and psychologically. But in the absence of funds, public authorities are responsible, it is impossible to do so. But perhaps not in the cost of the issue, but in the way that the nations are dealing with it. Or maybe it's for someone's convenience. They find the money to buy movies that show up on television 24 hours a day, eating young people’s souls. So the authorities should also think about preserving the gene pool of the nation, not only on the Maidan of Independence, but every day, as it was in Soviet times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u133	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine”, to prepare Politya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, distinguished government officials. Drug abuse, of course, is a social problem. And we needed to listen to this issue today by not one minister of health. Because unfortunately, this ministry doesn't solve everything, especially in this situation, when, in all the 1990s, the material and technical base, the drug facility's bed fund, they were reduced by 3 times. And it's scary, because somehow we think it's better to treat people like that in prisons, that we better spend money there. That's the wrong idea. I'd like that thought to come to the government, to the President, absolutely everyone. Now, let's talk about cutting down drug institutions. I'd like to point out that and now they're continuing in a number of areas and I want to say that, along with the fact that the government's got a terrible legacy, it's still mixed up in the tails of a lot of drug problems. I have exactly the problem that one of our colleagues stressed today, it's about selling analgesics like tramadol, Tramalgin, like clopheline and other things. We're done! We have the Donetsk public and representatives and the Party of Protectors of Homeland, other organizations, evangelical Baptist Christians, even with Bishop Sergey, have been running pharmacies that sell tramadol and tramalgin to people. Because there are about 60,000 people out there who use these things. But you should, Mr. Minister, call your deputy, the name Fishchuck, who has his own business interests, you know, in the pharmacology business, to say, the next day, there's no place to sell these drugs. But there is a need for free will. I urge you to do so. In Odessa, there was one pharmacy and two pharmacy kiosks, which are in municipal property. It's all handed out. So let's change the policy of this. Let's do the cheaper and the drugs, and let's go back. We'll make state pharmacies, and let's make municipals, this is the most profitable business. The state gave it away. What's the big deal, ladies and gentlemen? It's not just that. So I'd like you to think about it, just after Odessa, 16,000 HlV-infected people, and actually 3 times more, that's 50,000 in one city. This is a more serious threat to national security. I'd like a comprehensive government to consider this problem at a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u135	Andrew Polit. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u136	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the government! With regard to the future of our children, about the health of our society, we cannot but focus on the problem that has plagued Ukraine for 15 years. Today, there are 85,000 people in drug institutions alone. It is worth adding to this indicator those who are out of sight and who are not included in the official data of the Ministry of Health and, unfortunately, there are many such people in Ukraine. 15 years ago, this figure was 4 times less than - 22,000. They don't give birth to a drug addict, they become a drug addict. There's no need to confuse the concept of drug addiction and drug addiction. Addiction is a state of human health, a predisposition, and drug addiction is a social phenomenon. The causes of drug abuse lie on the surface, not in the nature of society itself. The fight against drug addiction is the creation of living conditions for people, especially young people, in which its full self-fulfillment would not be possible. Its full self-fulfillment would be possible in any sphere of society. It is not a secret that young people are most likely to resort to drugs from lack of demand and hopelessness. They are looking for an opportunity to get away from problems that, unfortunately, are not in a position to solve themselves today. Today, many youth social organizations are working in Ukraine, which have declared in their programmes and issues to address the social problems of young people, including the organization that I represent, without any doubt, a wealth of experience in addressing these challenges. As we implement our many public programmes, we strive to involve young people in sports, in creativity, in camps where young people have the opportunity to rest fully, to learn the skills of public work, to participate in meaningful meetings and interviews on the topical issues of Ukrainian life. I think that the revitalization of youth social organizations is one way to take young people away from their leisure time on the street. Such efforts by youth organizations must be supported in every way. The 2006 budget already provides for increased funding to support the programmes of youth social organizations. But most of all, it is a solution to the urgent problems of young people: work, housing, wages, full rest, leisure, and these are the circles that have been discussed today, and which, unfortunately, are not available to most young people today, sports sections and much more. It is their indecision that is the main cause of the social phenomenon of drug abuse. And no reallocation of funds from one budget line to another would solve the problem of drug abuse in society without changing the socio-economic priorities of the State's development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u137	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u138	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen! I am now in charge of the commission of the Temporary Special Commission on AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Drug Addiction, of which I am a member. In February last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine held parliamentary hearings on "Social Economic Problems of HIV AIDS, Drug Addiction and Alcoholism in Ukraine and the Problems of Their Resolution". We approved the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings, but none of the recommendations concerning drug abuse was made, stressing none. Now, and it's symbolic that our hearings coincide with the day of the fight against drug addiction, which humanity will celebrate on June 26 and find that nothing has been done by what our legislative body, at parliamentary hearings, recommended, is very unfortunate. The traditional system of medical care for drug addicts focuses on the introduction and use of medications, detoxification, and acute treatment. So far, socio-psychological assistance remains unwarranted, which predominates and is the main cause of further breakdowns and relapses. In Ukraine, there are only individual psychosocial rehabilitation programs, social organizations that work through donor grants and international agencies, or charitable donations. In recent years they have accumulated a good life with drug addicts and have, even theoretical work. The state network of socialization centres is practically on paper. And so, on behalf of the commission, I'm pointing out to the Government that the spread of drug abuse in Ukraine is becoming an epidemic, and we need to intervene immediately in the situation with all the authorities, the President and the Government, and to deal with this, first of all, social problem. And just before you treat your own societies. And personally, as a member of the faction of Ukraine, I'm going to add a recipe: the cure known: the second edition of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. And to the draft ruling, it seems that the government's work should be considered unsatisfactory and secondly, to provide for the pre-financing of these important problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u139	Thank you. We finished the discussion. Please, two minutes, Mikola Efremovich. What questions were there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this important discussion and I would like to emphasize that we have inherited this. Not this, not the present government, nor the present authority is to blame for what is today. And I'm surprised that some factions, as they say, have been following them for three or four years that have led Ohmatdit to a state like that today, who did, when they want to put order there, seem to be a lot of land to rent at low prices. And I want to make things right. The one who makes the noise, for whom those who have done it today are now acting as obese. The Ministry of Health, after issuing the 81st order, did nothing wrong. The 43rd article of the Constitution says that training and retraining of personnel are carried out according to social needs. Today, the social needs are precisely in the preparation of the village’s personnel, including doctors of general practice. I'd like another one of those ohmatdits, and 30 percent of them are serving there, including physical therapy, adult population, 50 percent of Kiev's children, and absolutely not the third or fourth level of aid, but the first level of consultation and assistance. And no one was going there or going into the territory to harm the children. Absolutely, I can assure you of that, and that's how it's going to be. Now it's relative. I would like to say that the issue of drug abuse is extremely painful and the issue of alcoholism is extremely painful. It's also the consequences of that power, that's 10, 12 years, or 13 years of foolish government governance, and absolutely no idea for social programs. The present government and authorities are directing their efforts toward social programs. And, I think, along with you, we will overcome this evil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-14-m0.u141	Thank you. So, your honorary colleagues, we have really discussed with you the extremely vicious problems -- and related to childlessness, and the question that goes beyond that, even though the speakers here pointed out that they were connected. Without a doubt, they are linked. But the problem of drug abuse is far more widespread than child abuse, for it includes large amounts of other types of society. I would like to support the optimism of the minister of health and express my confidence that, indeed, if we have no longer been temporary governments, because to this day these were temporary governments, and every government that came to Parliament had every reason to say that we are not responsible for this, because we have just begun to perform our duties. In a year we're listening to this question, the new government says we're not responsible. So let's make a wish that this government isn't temporary, and in a year we could ask him how these programs are being implemented, so they don't have the ability to say, it's not ours anymore. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break till 4:00.
