ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. They registered in the session hall with cards of 397 national deputies. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Ludmila Davidov, Peter Kuzmenk and Boris Rajkov. Let us welcome our colleagues, and we wish them good health and success. And now the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on October 18th, yesterday. 13 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, four laws and two decrees were passed, five bills were adopted on a basis, and four bills were rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions, with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'd like the factions to file a statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come to the secretariat and have been properly formulated. People’s Deputies Asked About Ukraine Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the President of Ukraine about the catastrophic situation on Ukraine’s roadways, which borders with national disaster. [[10:05:50]] For 231 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:12]] For 251 Decision taken. A group of national deputies to the President of Ukraine for excessive concentration by the central authority of financial resources to the detriment of the regional authorities. [[Wasilev, stanjan, lesčinski]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:43]] For 135 The decision is not taken. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the transfer of the Institute of the Dried Armed Forces from the city of Odessa to Lviv. [[KINGS, KINGS, POLISH, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:23]] For 222 For 202. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:43]] For 234 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine for the exacerbation of interfaith conflicts in Ukraine and for the actions of local law enforcement authorities regarding the religious communities of the village of Rokhmanov in the Shum district and the village of Stank Buchak in the Ternopil region. [[PASTOR, SIMON, CARNAUH]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:24]] For 221 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:46]] For 232 Decision taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on stabilizing the work of Ukraine's fuel and energy complex, preventing the destruction of businesses and deepening energy crises. [[Kravchuk, Gavrik, Kluevev]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:20]] For 249 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:09:42]] For 247 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the inadequacy of the transfer of appointments and payments of military pensions to the Pension Fund. [[Demjohin, Kadenuk, Rahanski]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:11]] For 252 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:10:32]] For 247 Decision taken. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the illegal opening and operation of branches of the Russian Federation’s higher education institutions in Ukraine. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kyiv District Government Administration, on the situation that took place in the relationship between the leadership of the State Administration of the Skurir region and the inhabitants of the villages of Chubinzi and the Tabors. Anatoly OF KORČINSKI to the Prime Minister on the closure of the Lenkovetski District Hospital in the Kielmenecki Region. Katerina SAMOILIK to the Prime Minister for not allowing the closure of the Yellow Central District Hospital of Mikolayeva. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the construction of the Ivanov group water supply in the Hersonian region. Mikhail BAUERA to the Prime Minister for the payment of the debt for the construction of the school in the village of Spristenki Glubecký district of Cherniewice. SERGY RATSCHNÁKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Transport and liaison with regard to the decommissioning of district motor vehicles. Alexander HUDIM to the Prime Minister on the illegal sale of property and land by the Ministry of Defence. Sergey SLABENKA to the Prime Minister for the improvement of living conditions in the town of Volodymyr-Wolinski, Volinsky district, which lives in the famous houses on Dragomanov Street. Mr Stanislav STRECK to the Prime Minister for the non-requirement of compulsory removal of part of the revenue of state and casino enterprises. To the Prime Minister, Vladimir YAVORIY, on the threat to the international image of Ukraine, the task of material damage to the state caused by the withdrawal of 40 military vehicles from the infantry of domestic production sold to Georgia. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the non-admission of classes at the School of Education No. 43 of the city of Mikolayeva. ROBERT to the Prime Minister in connection with the movement of the nursery of the village of Orenda, Yalta. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the decline of the gardening sector as a result of inefficient customs and tariff policies and insufficient State support. SLABENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on how to list objects financed by State budget subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development of regions, the implementation of prejudice measures and the prevention of technological disasters in housing and other social property accidents and investment projects. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister on financing arrangements for the conversion of the Chernobyl AES into a safe facility and preparations for the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister for preventing the use of mass power cuts by the Luganskkoblnergo leadership. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Bohoniki, Winnicki district, Winnicki district. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for compensation from the State Budget for the expenses associated with the granting of benefits to various categories of Ukrainian citizens who have carried the private business “BAC” of Lubna Poltava County. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the illegal actions of the local authority of the city of Kirovgrad concerning the “Mrija” hairdresser. Anton KISSE to Prime Minister, Head of the Government of the closed stockholders association “Ukrprofvodnica” regarding the State resort “Smoker”. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of high-value medical equipment to the central district hospitals of Zinkowski and Velikobogachan region of Poltava. The SASA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the reconstruction of cleaning facilities in the city of Novomirgorod of Kirovograd. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the benefit of the disabled by telephone. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of suitable premises for the Yellow District Court of Kharkiv. Igor LASTA to the Prime Minister on the conditions for the supervision and upbringing of children of Ukrainians adopted by foreigners. Mr Jaroslav Fedorczuk to the Prime Minister about the wrong actions of employees of the Ministry of Industrial Policy. Anton KISSE to the Prime Minister for the transfer of the property complex of the military town No. 5 of the Balgrad garrison to the property of the territorial community of the Bolgrad District Council. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister on the unsatisfactory state of implementation by the Government of the Law on State Budget 2005 in the part of financing the construction of pipelines and gasification of settlements in the Poltava region. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for delaying the issuance of State acts to land the inhabitants of the village of Dmitrashkovka in the Province of Vinnitsk. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the granting of the Tavria car to the disabled of the Great Homeland War II group of residents of the village of Mlini Lovichwiecki district of Poltaw region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister in connection with the emergency situation of the public education school in the village of Salkovo Heivoron district of Kirovograd. A PANASOVSKO LEG to the Prime Minister for anti-market trends in the state’s wholesale electricity market and inflation processes. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister for the calculation of the budget of Rowenka Lugansk Region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on water supply issues, sewage treatment and waste disposal of the city of Truskavec. [[Gladys, hapocha, Chevchuk]] Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for the construction of a multi-story complex on the streets of Hmelnické Chasse and Ljaly Ratushna in Vinnice. Yuri BOJKA to the Prime Minister for the rescue of the unique Odessa factory in the SND for heavy cranes. Mr. KRUKA's Jury to the Prime Minister for the protection of the economic interests of the State. Mr Paul TALČANA to the Prime Minister on the granting of the status of the National Historical and Cultural Reserve to the memorial museum of the garden of John Kozlowski. Groups of National Deputies (KRAVČUK, GAVRISH, KLEYEV) to the Prime Minister, acting as Attorney-General, Head of the BSC on stabilizing the work of the fuel and energy complex in Ukraine, preventing the destruction of industry and deepening energy crisis. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the problems of foreign investors – exporting producers in the customs territory of Ukraine. [[Gladys, hapocha, Chevchuk]] Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster with regard to the financing of the shore-building work on the River Tereswa in the Zakarpat region. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister on the social situation in the village of Novodnystrovsky Černinovetsek in connection with the lack of funding for the needs of the city from the State Budget. Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister for the transfer of military towns in the Volinsk district to municipal property. Mr. Andria KLEJEVA to the Prime Minister on the preservation and development of the titanium industry. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Prime Minister for the payment of the debt for the construction of the school in the village of Koryukowka, Chernigiv region. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLENKA to the Prime Minister for financial support for the implementation of European scientific and technical programmes. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the construction of a school in the village of Solotvino in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place around the hostels of the former Cation factory in Hmelnicki. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister to ensure the implementation of the Programme for the Environment and Socio-Cultural Development of Deported Citizens in Eupatoria. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister on the elimination of debt on the payroll of employees of the Kerchen Shipbuilding Plant “The Gulf”, increasing the number of jobs, attracting the responsibility of those who privatized the plant and did not fulfil their obligations to the labour force. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, for the revision of the project documentation for the construction of a high-pressure pipeline to some villages in the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kiev. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister on the allocation of funds for the completion of the reconstruction and construction of clean-up buildings in the city of Złotonoša Cerkaske oblast. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister regarding the development of a telephone network of individual rural communities in the Herson region. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister for the preparation of the village of Jubilee, Lugansk, for the heating season. Katerina FOMENKO to the Prime Minister regarding the improper implementation of article 51 of the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2005. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the pipeline and the gasification of the Tachiv district of the Zakarpat region. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the centralised payment of the added value tax by the State Enterprise Energoat. Anatolia Rachánské to the Prime Minister on the decision to build the Crimean Maritime Transport and Industrial Complex “Donvuzlav”, which threatens the destruction of the All-U.S. Children's Health Institute of the Eupatoria and the environmental well-being of the entire resort Crimea. MICHAEL SHERSHUNA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTERS ON THE CHANGE OF EXPENDITURES IN THE FIELD OF PHYSELF AND Sports. MICHELLE TO THE OFFICE OF THE MINISTRY FOR DISTRIBUTION WITH THE FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE SUBSIDITION FROM THE GOVERNMENTAL BUDGET FOR 2005 TO THE LOCAL BUDGET FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF INVESTIGATION PROJECTS. Mr. Paul Silent to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko about the construction of a monument to John Frank in Colomia. Mikhail Kosiv to Deputy Prime Minister Vejacheslav Kirilenko for the establishment of the Regional Institute of National Memory in Lviv with the aim of implementing the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on additional measures to perpetuate the memory of victims of political repression and famine in Ukraine. Jury CARMAZIN to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the National Bank on the facts of unlawful possession of property through abuse of official office, forgery, corruption by the management of the “Our Bank” shareholders, which has caused material damage to the open-ended shareholder company “Resistance of the Armouring Plant”. Olga HINZBURG to the Attorney General regarding the intervention in the court during the election of the Conotope City Head of the Suma Region. Igora ŠKIRI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the violation of the law by the national MP Mikola Rudzkowski and head of the Chernigov Observatories. Sergey LARINA to the Attorney General for refusing a criminal case. RAISES OF THE wealthier to the Attorney General for illegal detention under the custody of the MP of the Donetsk City Council and for fabricating a criminal case against him. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on the unlawful destruction of the public utility “Potebservis” of Smil of the Cherkas region. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Attorney-General on the illegal actions of the Kamensko-Dniprovovsky Prosecutor’s Office of the Zaporozhye Region. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General for bringing the former prosecutor, Kyiv Kuzmin, to justice on a parliamentary request for illegal construction of a house in Mariin Park. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Attorney General for improper reaction by the head of the District State Administration to a request for an end to the political persecution of members of the media. Vladimir ZUBANOVA and Taras ČORNOVOL to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, Head of the Odessa Regional Administration for the Investigation of the Crimes of the former Minister of Transport and the Liaison of Eugene Reddenek concerning the transfer of the container terminal of the Ilchiv port to the private enterprise “In the years to come”. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General's Office to provide information on the living conditions and upbringing of children adopted by foreign nationals of Ukraine. [[GORBAL, COMAR, KLEYEV, AND OTHERS]] Larissa VACHANKO to the Attorney General on the investigation into traffic accidents. Alexia Remenjuka to the Attorney-General, Minister of Justice for the illegal verification of the activities of the Ukrainian Political Party “Parties of Putin’s Politics” and attempts by the Ministry of Justice to prevent her from participating in parliamentary elections. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, The Ministry of Health in the face of a dangerous environmental situation that threatens the life and health of the population of Koryukowka in the Chernigiv region and the environment. Eugene Filindash and Mikola of the U.S. Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on gross violations in the educational and administrative activities of the Rector of the Kyiv University of Technology and Design. MICHALI KRAVZENKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the violation of constitutional rights for freedom of association in political parties and public organizations by officials of the Ministry of Interior in the city of Donetsk. Vladimir PETRENK to the Attorney General’s office, the Minister of Defense, for the investigation of the death in the car accident of military officer Voronka, a native of the Suma region. Ally ALEXANDROVSKY to the office of the Attorney General regarding the inactivity of the Kharkiv District Attorney’s Office for the protection of the rights of workers of the Chuguyiv branch of the Kulinichov Hebrocombinate. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General for the anticonstitutional decision of the Odessa City Council Executive Committee to ban the traditional demonstration of workers on the anniversary of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney - General for the pressure exerted on the head of the Tivrov district of the province of Vinnitsk and the deputies of the village council by the head of the Vinnitsk district council and the deputy head of the government for the purpose of forcing action on behalf of the commercial structure. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the negative situation caused by the illegal actions of the management of the closed association “Malva” and the guard company “Bezan”. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General’s Office for the continuation of political persecution in the Donetsk region. Mr. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Attorney General’s Office, Defence Minister, for the cessation of political persecution by the military commissioners of the Donetsk region. Groups of people's deputies to the Attorney-General's Office to provide information on the possible involvement of the Minister of Culture and Tourism in corruption. [[LARIN, CHILD, CORSACKOV]] FIXA to the first Deputy Attorney General on the misconduct of the Head of the Bahchisarai District State Administration and the Chief of the Bahchisarai District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mr. Matvienkov’s first deputy attorney - general regarding the investigation of a criminal case in Mariupoli, which led to the death of a Blacksmith citizen. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of the obstacle and on 15 October 2005 in Kiev for a peaceful demonstration dedicated to the 63-year-old Ukrainian Insurgency Army by Communist Adepts and citizens of the Russian Federation. Alexander CARENKA is responsible for the performance of the Attorney-General's duties of unlawfully receiving, purposelessly using and carrying out other financial abuses with money received as credit to the Bank of Credit-Dnipro and Krukgazbank by the Rector of the Suma National Agrarian University. Anatolia GREZJEVA to the Attorney General’s Office for the establishment of the cause of death of a student of Luhansk’s higher school of physics, Vitalia Jarchenka. Dear colleagues, if you're not interested in listening to parliamentary questions, let me not read them. Or, please, calm down. Andrija DERKAČA to the Attorney -General’s office regarding the obstacles to the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to obtain and distribute information by an organized criminal group, with the participation of the judge of the Kyiva Pilpenko District Court of Justice. Group of National Deputies to the First Deputy Attorney General, Head of the Sevastopol City Public Administration for Corruption in the Public Transport System of Sevastopol. [[BLACK, ALLOSHIN, WAR]] To the Attorney General, Tamari has been pro-adopted regarding the status of adoption cases. LILIA GRIGOROVIC to the Deputy Attorney General on the violation of the citizen’s constitutional right to housing. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General's Office for the involvement of the heads of the Luhansk Authority in the work of the employers' organisation. [[DESTINUE, GUREYEV, MATHVIENKO, AND OTHERS]] Alexander CARENKA’s responsibility to the Attorney General for the illegal activity of the Rector of the Suma National Agrarian University of Ladika, who violates the constitutional right of citizens to receive free education. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General’s Office on the legality of building a multi-story building on Kurbas street in Ternopol. GREGORY OF CALETNIKA to the Attorney General’s Office, Head of the Ternopil District State Administration, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the persecution of political beliefs and the illegal release from office of head of the Culture Department of the District State Administration of Ternopil. Mr. Mikoli KATERINCHUKA, acting as Attorney-General for the violation of the Constitution, the Law “On Citizens’ Appeal” and the order of the DPA “To Organize the Personal Admission of Citizens” by the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine Kyrieyev. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the office of the Attorney General for the criminal responsibility of the leaders of the JEC and officials of the Montenegrin City Council for for forcing the citizens of Chernigov to pay for the services of these companies at higher prices. Oleg TJAGBOKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the violation of the oath by the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee in connection with the emergence of the “God and Russia” boards and the verification of the possible illegal financing of the political party “Soyuz” by the Russian Federation. Anatolia KORCHINSKI to the Minister of Transport and the link between the groundless delay in the leadership of the Chernobyl Railway Depo in the employment of graduates of the vocational and technical school. The U.S. Department of Veterinary Medicine of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. THE Ministry of Health, Vladimir JAVORIY, on the facts of large - scale abuse, the purpose of long - term falsification of medical documentation for the provision of disability groups to healthy citizens in the region of Lviv, and the involvement of those responsible. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Ministry of Finance on the coming of State aid subsidies and subsidies to the population budget of the Poltava region. Vitalia MOYKA to the Ministry of Defence for the free transfer of the territory of the former military town No.26 to the municipal property of the territorial community of the town council of Cherniewec. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Defence for the Burning of Military Cities No. 2 and No. 21 of the town of Nizhina Chernigiv. Igora SHAROVA to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the legislation of former Attorney General Piscoun when the post of Prosecutor of the Kirovgrad Region was reduced and the introduction of the post of Prosecutor General, Prosecutor General of the Kirovograd district, the restoration of the rule of law and the renewal of the position of Prosecutor of the Kirovograd region. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison on the fact that the National Deputies were not admitted to the Hall of Official Delegations of the International Airport Borispil. [[THE KEY, MOCROUSOV, KUZUMENKO]] Sergey ŽIŽKA to the Ministry of Defence on the liquidation of the Ministry of Defence's debt to the State Enterprise “Harkovy Bronze Repair Plant”. Vladimir DEMOJINA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the situation that has arisen around society with limited responsibility “Position of Persons with Disabilities”. Jury BOJKA to the Foreign Minister for the examination of diplomatic channels to confirm or refute Russia's involvement in supporting the party that placed the imperial slogan “With us God and Russia” on the run-boards within Russia. ROBERT to the Ministry of Health on the right to suspend the appointment of the Rector of the Crimean State Medical University of Georgievsk. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Ministry of Defence on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from military service in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. A group of national deputies to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the threat of halting the supply of natural gas to Ukraine and the possible emergence of an energy crisis. [[SULKOVSKI, CORSAKOV, COMAR]] VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Ministry of Health regarding the abolition of Minister No.360’s order to implement medical prescriptions. Igora SHAROVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in relation to the violation by the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd region and Deputy Chief of the Directorate for Combating Organized Crime of this Administration by the Commander of the Law on Combating Corruption. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Ministry of Finance concerning the 2005 increase in the city of Poltava in the funding limit for compensation payments for the transfer of individual categories of citizens on the basis of State subsidies. Alexander TKALENKA to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the emergency situation that took place in the village of the Partisan district of the Hersonian region in connection with the unsatisfying state of toxic chemicals. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Ministry of Education and Science, Head of the Donetsk district administration for the restructuring of the district’s principal education and science administration. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the use by the local authorities of internal affairs in illegal activities in the village of Rohmanov in the Ternopil region. [[SAMONOV, KARNAUH, SAMOFALOV]] Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Minister of Agricultural Policy on the results of the work on speeding up and ensuring the legality of the distribution of property of the former “Progress” College between the “Progress” agro-firm and the “Lebedin-1” association of the Croat region of Montenegro. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the reasons for the support of the anti - Ukrainian left forces in the conduct of the Russian imperial Sabbath in Kiev on October 15, 2005, accompanied by a massive violation of Ukrainian constitutional rights. MIKOLI CATERINCHUKA to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of medical equipment to the Kalinov Central District Hospital in Winnitsk. Igora ŠURMI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, on the inclusion of the professions of “phythysiatr”, “phritisiatr” and “phritisiatr” in the list of 2 productions, jobs and occupations, jobs with harmful and difficult working conditions. VICTOR MIRONENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the non-privatization of the Kerchen Ship Repair Plant. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the Restoration of the Disrupted Rights of the Disabled Group I. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the facts of the continuation of political persecution in the Donetsk region. [[SAMOFALOV, LARIN, ZUBANOV]] Mr Vasil Gladys to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the establishment of the location of the Director of the Agricultural Society “Lana Ukraine”. Jury DYDENKA to the Minister of Justice for numerous violations of legislation, prejudice and abuse by individual judges and prosecutors during the proceedings of the State Shareholder Holding Company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the assignment of environmental expertise and the use of measures to eliminate air pollution in the Bershad region of Winnitsk. Petra TLOČKA to the Kiev City Head for the purpose of removing from the list of monuments with the aim of destroying the architectural and urban monuments, building No.37 on Red Army Street, and ignoring the housing rights of residents. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the city’s Kiev head for the safety of residents on the street of the Red Riding Hood region. Jury CARMAZINA and Mikiko SAKIRKA to the Odessa City Head, Head of the Odessa District Administration, Deputy Attorney General, Head of the State Tax Administration for the lifting of the Odessa City Head's illegal order of 23 February 2004 No178-01 and the arbitrary embezzlement of the immovable property of the Communion Company “The Import Market” in favour of the former Odessa City Head Bodelan commercial structures. Mikoli Komara to the head of the State Committee on Water Management for the repair of hydrotechnological structures near the villages of the Redwater and the Stupka District of Constantine. Vassila HARA to the Head of State Department for Religious Affairs regarding the involvement of the State Department in religious matters in efforts to establish the Patriarchate Courtyards in Ukraine. Larissa LARISHANKO to the Head of the State Tax Administration for the determination of the place of payment of taxes and congregations at the place where separate units of tax payers operate and for the verification of the standards of payment by budget operators. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Kiev City Head for information on the settlement of differences in housing and utility tariffs between 2001 and 2005 between the Kiev City Housing and Exploitation Organizations. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration on the bureaucratic attitude of Sumi authorities towards citizens' complaints about the work of the Sticky Food Shop. Mr. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Head of the Cherka District State Administration for allocating funds for the completion of the gasification of the village of Velika Jablunovka in the region of Cherkas region. Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Foundation of Holding, Head of the Herson Observatories, Prosecutor of the Herson District, regarding the unlawful actions of officials of the City Council of Scadovian on the establishment of ownership rights to a city pharmacy for the benefit of the Open Shareholder Society of the “Croat Iron Combine”. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the SBU on anti-constitutional and anti-State activities of a number of political parties and public left-wing organizations, which have consistently demonstrated their anti-Ukrainian essence, which once again occurred during the celebration of the 63rd anniversary of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. [[O. BONDARENKO, JAVOYSKI, I.]] Anatoly of the Writership to the Head of the Lviv District State Administration, the Chairman of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Blessed Metropolitan Vladimir, the Holy Patriarch of Kiev and the entire Russian-Ukraine Pilaret, the Head of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of Cardinal Lubomir Guzar, on the verification of the rightfulness of interference by the local authorities of the city of Radehova of Lviv, in the market “Trgovitsa”, which has a negative impact on the activities of private enterprises in the area. Jury CARMAZINA to the Head of the Poltava District Public Administration, Minister of Internal Affairs, acting as Attorney-General for the violation by a group of interested persons, with the participation of the employees of the law-enforcement bodies of the founders and members of the working group of the Poltava Agro-industry sector of the Lubenski Ryagroud for entrepreneurial activities, work and property. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the head of the Department of Cultural History and the historic environment of Kiev for the preservation of history and culture in the city of Kiev. Igora ŠKIRI to Dnipropetrovska District Prosecutor, Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov City Prosecutor's Office for the violation of legislation by the Raju Senior Prosecutor's Office regarding the TOV “Ilitash-Tur”. VICTOR BORSCHEVSKI TO THE DNIPROPETRORIC PROPOSER ON PAYMENT DEBT TO THE SECTORS OF THE JIVILINA TO THE CITY OF NOVOMOSKOVSKOVSKOVSKY DNIPROPETRO. Georgia BUYKA to the prosecutor of the Donetsk district for the collection of debts on the salary of a citizen of Smetanina from the maintenance of the residential and utility business of the city of Torrez Donetsk. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Bank’s Elimination Commission “Ukraine” for the transfer of the premises of the City branch to the Bank “Ukraine” in the Ivano-Frankiv region to the school of art. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the head of the Department of Environmental Safety of Kiev regarding environmental compliance with the city’s construction. MICHELLE’S Odessa City Head’s vanquish on the initiative of entrepreneurs operating in the territory of the Lesser Town of Odessa. Mr Mikoli KUKARCHUKA to the Prime Minister for the connection of the gas pipeline built by VAT Volinsksement. WOYUSHA to the city’s Kiev head on the legality of building in the historic center of the city at the intersection of the streets of Honchar and Jaroslav Val. Igora ŠURMI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of an extraordinary sanitary and epidemiological situation in the city of Morshin Lvivsk, due to the lack of funding for work from the reconstruction of KOS "Canalisation and Clean Buildings". Alexia MALINOVSKO to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Cherkas region with regard to the verification of information at the Cherkas-gas company. Leonidas Vernigor and other national deputies to the Prime Minister for the Realisation of the Property of VAT “Photo”, which has occurred with numerous violations of legislation. Stepan HMARI to the head of the State Property Fund, Minister of Transport and Liaison to the Attorney General's Office for the verification of information on the illegal transfer of the container terminal of the Illyshiv Seaport to the private firm ‘Ukratranskotiner’ and the use of measures to prevent the division of the entire property complex of the state-owned enterprise and the modification of its owners. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the absence of a public response to the intervention of the Council of the Federation of Russia in the internal affairs of Ukraine. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Prime Minister for the lack of official information on the November opening of this year in the capital city of Kiev of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. So, reverends. Oh, Sergey's sorry. Georgia Skudara, I'm sorry, to the Attorney General's Office for the consideration of the statement in the citizen's letter to Sergienko concerning the facts of the misconduct of members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kramatorské Donetské region. Thus, honourable colleagues, 170 parliamentary inquiries have been made. By factions: the faction of the Communists of Ukraine – 35, the “Regions of Ukraine” – 25, the People's Party – 9, “Our Ukraine” – 15, Block Timoshenko – 11, SPU – 10, the Ukrainian People's Party – 8, SDPU(o) – 12, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 10, “One Ukraine” – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 8, “Reforms and Orders” – 10, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, we've already used 45 minutes to make parliamentary inquiries. Now, maybe 45 minutes to get to the show, right? Yes, Victor Terrence is invited to the presentation. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u2	Victor Terrence, Yulia Block Timoshenko, "Fatherland" Party. Dear colleagues, as early as summer, the government of Yulia Timoshenko has taken steps to substantially raise the salaries of teachers and introduce a fairer pay on the new tariff grid. To this end, an additional 1.4 billion dollars were allocated in the 2005 budget. And the teachers didn't expect their income to increase significantly in September, but on September 8th, the President signed the Order on the resignation of the Government of Timoshenko and the increase in wages did not happen. So maybe Kiev doesn't see what's going on in the regions and in the places, maybe they don't know what kind of salary a rural teacher gets. But, of course, in order to know and introduce the post of vice-premier from regional politics. But Mr. Immortal is now engaged in other matters, he is assigned to run the electoral company Our Ukraine. And by the way, it's another parallel to kuschmism, because Janukovich's electoral company was occupied by another vice-premier, Andrew Klovev. And the next day, after receiving the high office of head of our Ukrainian electoral company, Roman Petrovich held a press conference and told teachers for a long time, and you and I, under which slogans, will go to the elections to use the symbolism. That is, he acted toward his new iposa, which he considered to be the main one, and now he is not interested in teachers. But did Timoshenko’s decision to raise salaries to teachers have been financially strengthened because the most influential oligarchs who had not added billions to the budget outside Kuchmi were forced to pay taxes. And so if this decision to raise wages is now being questioned, then it is questionable and to pay taxes by oligarchs, and this is confirmed by the President's recent friendly meeting with Victor Pinchuk, Alexi Poroshenko and other friends of the people, whom we now have to love very much in the President's memo. [[the father of Peter Poshenko]] And during this touching act of merger, the President has long urged the oligarchs to pay taxes, and Prime Minister Yehanurov has said that there must be a way out for each oligarch, in other words, according to the terms. However, dear friends, to pay taxes, there is a law before which all are equal, and if a private businessman fails to pay the tax, he will be found in court, put in prison, but the richest of our Burats must be persuaded to act under the Law. And so it turns out that the structures that have to monitor the payment of taxes either fail to meet their obligations, or it is necessary to bring the tax system into line. The law should work the same for everyone, and the approach here should be the same. Only then will there be order in the country, and teachers will have wages that are worthy of their high - minded but at the same time very difficult to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u3	So from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko will speak. Please, Yuri Ivanovich, and prepare Igor Alekseyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u4	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! On October 14, the Ukrainian patriotic community celebrated the next anniversary of the national-liberal movement known as the UN-OPA movement. The Ukrainian rebel army was created in 1942 as a national self - defense against captives. In its first address to the people, the Ukrainian Insurgency Army set its main goal in the struggle for Ukraine’s own constituency. The exclusive focus of the U.S.A. on gaining Ukraine’s independence is also evidenced by the fact that the sacrificial struggle continued after World War II ended. Thus, the inventions of Communist propaganda regarding the cooperation of the UPA.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u5	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u6	With the Nazis as well as the myths of the gangster terror, the archival materials that opened up to the public after the fall of the Communist regime were completely refuted. Hitler’s German regime, not the UPA, cooperated with Hitler. Because it was the Communist regime that signed with the Nazi regime of Molotov-Ribbentrop's shameful pact. Criminal actions against the civilian population were carried out, not by UPA soldiers, but by NCAF special forces. All these facts are documented by the work of a special government commission. However, the problem of UPA remains unresolved today. The practice of other countries is clear where authorities work for peace and harmony in society, and such problems no longer exist. In Spain, there is a great cross over the common grave of Republicans and Franciscans who fought among themselves. As early as 1991, Poland had passed a law that had killed the Krayov Army and the Ludova Army. In Russia, which is so often liked to refer to in this room, there is no white or red anymore, and for the sake of national reconciliation, the new authority worships the remnants of the despot king, as Michael the Third Communists were told. In Ukraine, everything is the other way around. Over the years of independence, the authorities have not only adequately underestimated the contribution of UPA to the struggle for Ukrainian statehood, but they have not solved the moral and ethical and social component of this problem for the few who are still alive. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u7	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u8	requires the President and the Government to acknowledge the fact that without the UPA there would be no State of Ukraine. The Ukrainian democratic community insists on justice for those who have given their lives for the Ukrainian present, as evidenced by about two million signatures collected by our party in all areas of Ukraine and Autonomy of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u9	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u10	We call on fellow MPs to work together to eliminate this immoral political barricade created by the totalitarian regime for the disunity of Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u11	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u12	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, come on, I'm asking you in a normal environment, allow each faction to express its position. Igor Alexeyev of the Communist Party of Ukraine has his word. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, respected citizens of Ukraine. Last Saturday, a cynical attempt was made to conduct on the central street of the capital city of Ukraine manuals for fascists, soldiers of UN UPA. But without even looking at the enhanced security of the special forces of the socialist minister, this attempt was ruined. I would like to thank the true patriots of Ukraine, the veterans of the Soviet army, the young ones who came on this day to the Christian to honor their war brothers, their parents and their grandfathers, the real liberators of Ukraine. Because of your courage and heroism, the Fascist tail parade did not take place. Thank you, true patriots of Ukraine! We Communists are accused of being destructive, saying we do not want reconciliation with Ukrainian society. We claim it's a lie. For peace in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, UPA soldiers who did not commit crimes against humanity, i.e. they did not kill, cut, bury their fellow countrymen alive -- they were referred to as participants in hostilities. But we are definitely against comparing traitors, murderers and rapists with liberators. In the Nuremberg trial, humanity has always condemned Fascism and its “dual ” nationalism. As crimes against humanity, skilled thieves of fascists and UN-OPA soldiers. We are trying to give an example of reconciliation in Spain. Yes, there was reconciliation between those who were on different sides of the civil war. There was no such war in Ukraine. The Ukrainian RSR, as a state, took part in the war on the side of the Anti - Hitler coalition. And right after the war, Ukraine was the founder of the UN. By the way, in Italy and Germany, fascists are also not rehabilitated and the descendants of Mussolini and Hitler are not allowed to march solemnly on the streets of Rome and Berlin. Therefore, there is nothing to do with the Fascist “pompacs” in the center of Kiev. They did not release him, and they did not shed blood for him. The government has, as we know, ruled on the comparison of traitors to liberators of the Ukrainian people. That's why the Communists warned that there was no waiting for the power of socialist nationalists. It is only the naive people who hope that this authority will not “fall upon the throat ” of those who have won a great victory with their blood. Here we go. You, Your Honorable Liberation Soldiers, you who have done heroic work to provide the front with everything you need. To your offspring, children and grandchildren, the authority once again "swoke in the face". We brought the signatures: here's 2 million. 843 thousand. signatures from all regions. And I'm showing one of the signed letters so that people with names don't think there are some "reviewers" that fit that, in fact, are signatures signed by people with names. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u15	We invite Mikola Noshchenko, “Go, Ukraine!” Prepare Larissa Usachenko. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u16	Mikola Noshchenko, 160th constituency, Sumstina, Volodymira Litvina National Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, voters. First of all, I want to thank the faction leaders very much for the faction leaders who supported our proposal to include for tomorrow before the Supreme Council's decision not to raise the price of natural gas for the population. I hope that when we talk about the electorate, we will support this decision. It's different. The faction is concerned about the state of the local budgets that are now practically balanced. Reason. Part of the regions with a view to balancing the income and expenditure of the respective budgets are artificially increasing income. For example. In the Nedrigail district of Sumski district, this is an increase of 74 percent in budget expenditure in 2005, Lipovodlinsky in 45, Burin region in 36, Mid-Butski in 27. This forces circuit executives not to do their job in the second quarter, but to do so in a practical way: administration, Minfin, treasury with an outstretched hand to cover the budget holes. In the fall, the budget committee, the national deputies, is added to this circle. But it's like who gets it. Now, for example, in the areas indicated, the salaries of budget workers are not only not to be paid, but even counted. The problem is, and she has understood the general public. Therefore, according to the mandate of the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, in Kiev, Sumskia, Chernigiv, the commissions worked together with the Minfin staff and the Committee on Budgets and confirmed that the situation was complex. What was the government team supposed to do? To be taken into account in the consideration of the Act on amending the 2005 budget. However, the protection of the highest financial uniform includes heavy artillery — the Prime Minister himself. We were impressed by the letter signed by Yuri Yehanur to the Supreme Council on October 3, which denied the general problem of local budgets. The bill on support for the local budget is proposed to be withdrawn. The truth is later under the pressure of the Supreme Council, and it is suggested that the local budgets be allocated to 300 million that do not solve this problem. We consistently support local executives, the need to form budgets from the bottom up, which we believe will have a practical impact on the activity of the rural, rural and urban communities, but this is in the future. Today, with the aim of avoiding systemic errors in the 2006 budget, we insist on a government-sponsored council with the participation of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u17	Larissa Usachenko from the faction "Our Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Prepare John Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u18	Larissa Usachenko, Victor Yushchenka faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, statement of the faction of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" in connection with the lifting of parliamentary immunity. The parliamentary faction of the Party The People's Union "Our Ukraine" stresses that the constitutional principle of equality of citizens before the law has the highest priority. This was confirmed twice by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on December 23, 1997 and February 26, 98. He acknowledged the unconstitutional position of the individual laws of Ukraine, which gave state officials immunity. The "Our Ukraine" faction insists on the complete elimination of the parliamentary immunity of Ukrainian national deputies. The State has created the right conditions to protect people’s defenses against the possibility of unlawful interference with their activities, as well as to carry out their official duties. In order to reverse the rule of non-touchability of national MPs, we will initiate appropriate changes to the Constitution. We also claim that the implementation is unacceptable, and in fact the restoration of the outdated rule on the parliamentary integrity of members of the local council that existed before 1998. The Constitution of Ukraine does not provide additional guarantees of immunity for members of the local councils. The faction "Our Ukraine" expresses its full support to the President of Ukraine for accusing him of the law in the Constitutional Court. We find any political speculation about the need to preserve parliamentary immunity unacceptable. All citizens must be equal before the law and be able to cover themselves with parliamentary immunity from criminal persecution for crimes committed. Ukraine's Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils stipulates that the Public Prosecutor's Office should consult, and therefore the prosecution's representatives, who stop criminal cases without recourse to councils, act unlawfully. We demand that this practice be reviewed immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u19	John Boki is invited from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, today I am speaking out of this rostrum not only as a politician but also as a journalist with many years of work to abuse the newspaper The Force News. This newspaper is known to be the most popular and most massive subscription in Ukraine, and I have the privilege of working with it. I remember that in 1999, in the presidential election, Kuchma’s regime, which was faithfully served by so many people in this room, provoked the newspaper against the law. A circulation of 3 million copies was released three times by a fake edition of the Village News, which was distributed by Krašta without a known publication. This fake boasted of Kuchma and printed all sorts of nonsense about Kuchma’s chief opponent, Alexander Moroz. In 1999, the bushmen used such counterfeiting completely, and in 2000 they attempted to close the newspaper. In 2004, Kuchma’s regime was not falsified. But now, in parliamentary elections, the Qutshmi parties are once again using an old arsenal of subjugation that is not compatible with freedom of speech and democracy. The 114th edition of the newspaper Silesian News of September 30, this year, became an object of provocation and outright rape. This issue of the newspaper, under the orders of the state-owned firm “Krošta”, was inserted into the newspaper of the National Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Litvina, which contains a dirty pascville against the leader of the Socialist Party Alexander Moroz and the party itself. This provocation, as it was in 1999, was an example of the cynical and illegal use of administrative resources, which was also used by members of the People’s Party to influence the leadership of Ukraine and led to the commission of officials of official crime. Why did the appointed officials resort to an illegal affair planted in the village news of their slanderous newspaper, because the leadership of the People's Agrarian Party is now important to divert from society the establishment of the purchasers of the murder of Georgia Gongadze. Everyone in Ukraine knows, and the report of the Grigory Omelchenka commission confirmed who organized the crime. And when it became clear after this report that the People's Party is launching an attack on those people who first claimed the involvement of the Eagles of Kuchma in this crime, although to someone and its leaders well-known the circumstances and motives of dirty, shameful history. On behalf of the Council, on behalf of the Socialist faction, I protest against provocation and the use of illegal administrative resources, and we request the Attorney-General's Office, we ask European law enforcement organizations, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to evaluate provocations against the Forced News. If there is no sound in democracy in Ukraine, the organizers of this dishonest provocation should be responsible for the law. Please consider this application an official parliamentary request from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u21	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir Mazurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u22	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The descendants and followers of those who starved Ukraine in the 1930s and destroyed more than 10 million Ukrainian citizens; the descendants and followers of those who, in the 1930s, exported to Siberia, who, in the 20th year of the Great Yellow Socialist Revolution in the North Sea, drowned the barges, which were made up of prisoners of the so-called liberation, were placed under the walls of those who met them with bread and salt; the descendants and followers of those whom they met in Galician in 1939; and who, on the second day after the so-called liberation, were put under the walls of those who met them with bread and salt, shot, shot, shot, killed, killed, killed, killed in Biberca, the small town of Biberca, where the Encavedas were found, the Bolsheviks were boiled alive by Ukrainian patriots. Only in a small period, beginning in September 1939, after June 1941, when World War II began in Galician alone, disappeared untraceablely, destroyed, murdered, exported to about a million citizens. And this whole Bolshevik mess that has survived to this day shows its teeth now in an independent Ukrainian state. We are the arrogant accusations of Ukrainian patriots defending Ukraine from two. From the fascism of brown, from the fascism of Moscow red, these descendants today are unable to recognize those who fought for the Ukrainian state. As far as Fascism is concerned, history knows that not the bandits marched in Brest with the fascists, but the Red Army troops under the Communist Party. And then until the trial of the crimes of communism takes place, it's up to our Justice Department, the Attorney General's Office, to remove these anti-government anti-Ukrainian organizations. The Ukrainian state, I think, Ukrainian parliamentarians have to ask this question on the Council of Europe, because fascism is brown and red still lives. The Ukrainian rebel army, the patriots will be recognized. They're already declared Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u23	Vladimir Mazurenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u24	Vladimir Mazurenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[Joint]] From history to reality today. The Democratic People's Party of Ukraine's Socialist Republic declares a deliberate deviation of power from the pre-election pledges for the final withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq. [[Joint]] The phased withdrawal of Ukrainian peacekeepers on 15 October, as indicated by the President at the outset of the rule, was subsequently adjusted to an uncertain end of the year. Today, however, the issue of the withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from Iraq is already evident. Most of the troops are hopelessly awaiting their return home. The Presidential promise, as always, remains only a promise. Today, even U.S. and NATO allies are withdrawing their contingents from this eastern country. Or at least they were determined with exact dates of withdrawal in the near future. And Ukraine alone is not taking real steps towards a solution that is indeed a sobering issue. Moreover, a statement by Ukrainian high-ranking officials has brought society to a standstill, as it indirectly shows the tendency of the authorities to reconsider their positions in the Iraqi problem. That is how we appreciate the proposal made in due course by the Minister of Defence of Ukraine: to leave Ukrainian troops in Iraq indefinitely as instructors. Ukraine seems to have decided to withdraw its troops from Iraq last, even after the United States. The faction of SDPU(o) states that the completion of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq is one of Ukraine's top foreign policy tasks. Any attempt to delay the resolution of this issue is seen as a betrayal of our own people as a betrayal of the country's interests. We find it unacceptable for a State that calls itself democratic to use the presence of the Ukrainian continent in Iraq as the main argument for Ukraine's progress towards NATO. Moreover, the burning desire of the State to join NATO as soon as possible is not in line with the views of most Ukrainian citizens and is contrary to the provision on the off-block status of the State enshrined in the declaration of independence. This statement warns the authorities of the faction of the SAPU(s) that it does not give out tangible promises in the negotiations between Ukraine and the Alliance, especially in the light of the most recent decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Ukraine's accession to NATO completely alters the country's geopolitical situation and thus another way for Ukraine to become a member of that international organization, as through a popular referendum. And that is a fact from which power has no right. The faction of SDPU(o) is protesting the cynical actions of the authorities that have decided to bargain for the bright future of NATO with the lives of our soldiers. We request that the Minister of Defence of Ukraine be informed in Parliament about the status of the withdrawal, timetable and implementation of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Reform and Order” faction. Please prepare Victor Slaveti.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u26	On behalf of the Reform and Order faction, telegraphic style. First. I am absolutely convinced that we should stop teaching children’s cubes with 37 years of air. We just got off the phone with Leonid Macarovich Kravczuk, and I think we've come to a very normal conclusion. We need to, and we're going to be preparing a bill about national-liberal contest participants in the near future. And this will be a special law for these people. We'll do without the voices of the Communists, I have no doubt about it. The other one. With regard to the integrity of the deputies. The faction of our initiative, we have now submitted to the Constitutional Court, gathered all the signatures, this document registered, let the Constitutional Court consider, if it does not consider, the faction will join the Bill of Vasil Onopenk on the annulment of parliamentary immunity. And most of all, why did I come up here? I am very bitter and ashamed as a Ukrainian, that my new authority today seems to have committed a completely immoral act for which I personally think that many of you are ashamed. 15 years ago, Ukraine was terra incognito, some colony they were looking for on the map doesn't know where it is in Africa or anywhere. Ukraine was then found out about a state where a journalist could be killed and no one would eventually find out, a state that could sell weapons to some one regime, a state where corruption, a state where the president's family holds all the property in Ukraine. Then we were informed of how a wonderful, romantic, and good people were able to reach Midan. What will they say about us today? I mean, Rasula Guliev, a recent speaker in Azerbaijan, America gave him political asylum, she didn't give this asylum to Lazarenko, or to Sterbay to anyone, and she gave it to him. A state that knows what it's doing. Why did Ukraine get involved in this filthy conspiracy absolutely? To plant a plane in Simferopol and today to arrest it and hand it over to the Azerbaijani authorities. I'm sure it's a fatal mistake. What will the world think of us? Yesterday, however, Julius Timoshenko, who was in opposition, traveled around the world and was nowhere to be stopped. No one arrested her anywhere. I am absolutely convinced that a final decision is to be made today. I don't know who made the decision, whether it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the president. I don't know who did it. But what has hurt my state, my nation, which has risen into the orange revolution, and today, it turns out, is unable to protect the same revolutionaries as it was yesterday alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u27	Victor Slauta, faction of “Ukraine”. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u28	Respectable citizens of Ukraine. Slauta, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Today's state situation has witnessed economic illiteracy, a complete lack of a strategy for Ukraine's economy. The most acute is the agrarian theme. Specific support for the APC by the government of Yanukovic, for example, in 2004, three and a half billion, and the adoption of laws by the Supreme Council, about fifty, was positive. In 2004, income increased, profitability increased to 15%, practically debt paid on wages, and people became convinced of their own strength. But how much it took to hate the village to avoid using the established base in 2004, to tear everything apart with lies and populism. At present, the previous government has destroyed the agrarian sector, the financial situation of the farms, including farming, is catastrophic. The market for grain, sugar, and government purchases have been blown up. The market for oil crops is already on the move, with 800 bracelets of sunflower. Experts forecast barter in the village again, feudalism. And everything needs to be done by law, because some ministries are impressed by the approach they take. The famous law on State support for agriculture, co-authored by Mr Terjohin, ignored it itself. And these are the same rules of the game that last night we had an agrarian minister, and markets for products abroad. At my second job in the Ministry, I was tested by an effortless ambassador without lunches the most powerful democratic state in the world: "Why don't you, Minister, take our crumbs? What about our beef? And when will the earth be made to pass away?" That's diplomacy, I think! This is a democracy! And our M.E.S. seems to be just the problems of the UPA and the Russian language, and that's all. And Minfin is deaf to the village. In the 9-10 district farm administrations in the area of 20-30, there are 250 specialists left in Minfin without a proper salary and, above all, a material and technical base. Their authorities simply don't hear them, so they have to lead the last goat, and at the walls of the Supreme Council, at the threshold of a successful government. The faction backed up yesterday, and today it will support all the country's bills for the benefit of the peasants. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists that 12 billion people be budgeted in 2006. for the development of the APC and 5 billion For the development of the social sphere. We suggest double the cost of agrarian science, which is now on the sidelines. If not, taking into account the problems of miners, local governments, no one will vote for such a budget. In general, dear friends, this situation in the economy can be quickly rectified by “hirrowing” the government of Yanukovic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u29	Mikola Onichuk from the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Prepare for the Truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u30	A statement by the factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs. “The faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs expresses concern about the situation in the Lugansk region, where the officials of the Lugansk Regional Public Administration were not hidden and could be said to have brutally intervened in the activities of employers’ organisations and prevented their statutory tasks from being carried out. Yes, on October 11, 2005, in order to address health problems and to develop ways of overcoming them, it was planned to hold a district branch organization in the field of health care in Luhansk. However, the scheduled congregations did not take place because they were prevented from being held by officials of the district government. Thus, members of the organization, the chief physicians of the Lugansk region that morning, on the same day, were sent a telephonegram that canceled the scheduled congregations, and it was forbidden for medical personnel to come there. The faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs draws attention to the illegality of such actions, the violation of the provisions of the Law on the Organization of Employers and the requirements of the Convention ratified by Ukraine, No. 87 of the International Labour Organization on the Freedom of Association for the Protection of the Rights of the Organization. The faction notes that in a world co-owner, similar actions are first-class as crime, and are actually a lacuna to determine the level of democracy in society. Unfortunately, this case is another manifestation of a very stable administration virus by the heads of the Luhansk District Administration, which has led to another tense socio-political situation in the area, and which the President has already been paying attention to by his orders since April 3, 2005. The faction calls on the President, the Prime Minister of Ukraine to respond to this fact and to make decisions to ensure the effective functioning of social dialogue and civil society institutions. Dear colleagues! I also want to inform you of the following at the faction's disposal. During the roll-call vote yesterday on the introduction of a moratorium on the privatization of a package of shares belonging to the State in the statutory fund of VAT, the Krivorizic State Mining and Metallurgical Unit of Crevorizstal, number 8263, 82.-1, there were no national deputies in the session room, members of the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs, such as Antonyev, Burjak Alexander and Sergei, Vernetennikov, Gorlov, Matvienko in connection with their exercise of parliamentary powers. In addition, we are bringing home the Supreme Council Secretariat that the national deputies of Vasadze, Kuzmuk, are now on a mission and yesterday that Stanislaw Long is in a hospital. In this regard, we report that the voices of the designated Ukrainian national deputies in support of the bill are such that they do not produce legal consequences. We also refer to colleagues who represent the faction in the Supreme Council, who are next to us and with our jobs, to comply with the requirements of part three of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is voting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u31	Yes, Sergey Pravdenko, Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko from the "One Ukraine" faction. To prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. As professional politicians, you and I are well aware of the reason why the idea arose at the legislative level to give the MPs of local councils the in touch. But if we follow that logic, we need to give the members of the election committees the same degree of in touch with each other, and so on and so forth. I mean, it's not a panacea, because it's going to have to be distributed further, and on the other hand, it's going to have to be put to the other side about. lists to be persecuted, morally destroyed, and so forth. We just have to follow legislation. Therefore, our "One Ukraine" faction believes that now that the Law on the Status of Local Council Deputies has already been signed by the President, it has become effective as a result of 229 thousand. In fact, individuals have become outside the influence of the law enforcement system, and we consider this to be a very dangerous situation. This is a mass indulgence to lawlessness. What rule of law can be referred to when a quarter of a million citizens are singled out in a single caste of untouchables? And this is when according to the IMF, more than a thousand of them are now being charged with official crimes that have harmed the state for more than 18 million dollars. That's right. And we think it's incomplete statistics. Remember, we already have a sad experience of touching everyone without excluding MPs. It was then that the local councils became a haven for criminal authorities of different levels, and we are again on the same rakes. We all made a mistake by voting in favour of this law, and that must be acknowledged. All sociological surveys clearly show that society does not accept the status of the immunity of members of all levels, including our status with you. Parliament's adoption and the President's signing of the corresponding changes to the law has an extremely broad negative social resonance, which we stress. The Supreme Council had no right to extend the list of untouchables, and the Constitutional Court had to confirm that. But the solution to this question in the Constitutional Court may delay indefinitely. So we have no right to wait. Therefore, the faction of the “One Ukraine” party requires urgent inclusion in the agenda and consideration of bills aimed at overturning the inviolability of members of the local councils. We urge you to correct your mistake and make sure that the local councils do not go to the local councils for indulgence for crimes committed or not yet committed, but for the sake of hard work for the benefit of your region, city or village. The "One Ukraine" party sees the very principle of not touching the MPs, including the Ukrainian national deputies. The law should be the only one for all, not citizens of the 1st and 2nd classes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u33	Igor Jeremeyev, faction of the People's Party, please. The next Prowsky with more than 15 signatures is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u34	A statement by the faction of the People's Party. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The MP of the People's Party, on October 5, stated publicly that it would not vote in favour of the 2006 budget proposed by the government if the requirements of the People's Party were not met in the 10 per cent allocation of all expenditure on agrarian financing. That's at least 14 billion dollars. 12 billion are offered to target economic programs and 2 billion are proposed for social development. We also offered a mechanism to invest these funds in the village economy. It's supposed to be an address subsidy to manufacturers. The farmer’s bull was nourished — take 3 bracelets from the state for a pound [kg] of meat. He sells milk, or he sells milk, and the state sells 40 or 50 copies per liter. In agriculture, a hectare of crops needs between 100 and 200 dollars of subsidies. We find such adjustments to the budget project absolutely appropriate and moral. We need to help the President fill in a concrete context of his decision to support the People's Party's Initiative and to announce the following 2006 Year of the Village. The members of our faction have been in virtually all regions of Ukraine and the conclusion is clear: there is a need to radically increase the funding of the transfer by the local budget. 10.7 billion dollars is the Chinese minimum needed for hospitals, schools, kindergartens and social programs. Today, public service tariffs have to be raised by 30 to 50 percent. One reason is the total deficit of local budgets, which have become hostages to the social population of central government. In November-December, in most areas, there will be nothing to pay to teachers, doctors and other social workers. The faction also insists that the 2006 budget replace one line of the article “Capital investments” with specific roads, gasification facilities and other new buildings to which the budget will be allocated and approved together with the budget. We suggest that in areas where there is no gasification, electricity payments should not exceed 12 copies. Optimize the budget project in its present value is quite a matter of fact. To this end, the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, has proposed the establishment of a full - time parliamentary government task force, and this group has already been established. At the same time, the Committee on Budgets supported the constructive proposals of the factions of the People's Party in its conclusions, which we should endorse tomorrow. So we have to appeal to the government again with a warning: the faction will not give a vote in favour of the 2006 draft budget if our requirements that the Budget Committee has supported are ignored. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u35	Mikola Porowski, please. It's from the Postfaction Group. But I'd ask that the Postfactions, if they want to speak, be united next time in a group or faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u36	Mikola Porovski, Republic Christian Party Honorary fellow MPs, Ukraine consumes over 70 billion cubic feet [70 billion cu m] of natural gas annually. Gas consumption is increasing year after year, as gasification of urban areas, utilities, and businesses is increasing, and gas costs are increasing, and gas imports are increasing. Ukraine's economy is critical to the import of gas from Russia, Turkmenistan. And the entire segments of industry can be destroyed by an increase in the price of imported gas to the level of world prices that will eventually happen. Ukraine’s gas payments from Russia and Turkmenistan from 2006 to 2015 are expected to amount to no less than $50 billion. These are the accounts of the experts. Today, we are faced with a choice: either to pay such huge costs -- $50 billion for gas imports in the next 10 years, or to pay relatively small amounts for measures to reduce gas consumption, energy conservation and energy efficiency in industry, utilities and individual consumption. [[Think of the number!]] Ukraine needs primarily a national national gas reduction programme aimed at reducing the use of gas by increasing efficiency, cogeneration, replacing natural gas by increasing the efficiency of its combustion, cogeneration, the use of its own resources, methane, waste gasification, and turbines. Such a reduction in gas consumption program was adopted by the Wastebasket Government and operated from 96 to 2000. It was carried out by 27 percent and was not developed for a further period of time. I appeal to Prime Minister Yehanurov to ensure the immediate development of a national gas reduction programme by 2015, as well as to extend the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 751 on the Programme of Measures to Reduce Natural Gas Consumption to Full Use. We need to re-orient the system of economic stimulation of district gas supply organisations by providing incentives for gas efficiency indicators, and we need to establish the personal responsibility of gas transport managers for the loss of highways. We have a loss of almost 8 billion cubes a year, and we can save up to 20 percent of that volume. This is the agreed position of the non-fractional group. I'm asking them to consider the MP's appeal to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u37	Honorable national MPs, two of our colleagues, demand the right to speak in connection with a dissatisfaction with the reply to parliamentary requests. The necessary documents have been drawn up in this connection. Igor Shurma, please prepare Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u38	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] From a response that Rybauk sent: “I am not currently vice-premier on matters of European integration, to which the questions of European integration have been raised. And the question you have raised about the report on the position of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine is not within the authority of the head of the Ukraine Secretariat, which I now hold. In fact, it's not even a write-off, it's an open abuse of power over the right and the Supreme Council, and a society to control that power, to demand effective activity, to track budget spending. For 8 months, Mr. Ribauk served as Vice-Prime Minister, and for 8 months he was provided with a structure of fifty people, and finally for 8 months as a VIP person, he was flying around, making admissions at a state expense. And when it comes time for society to show the results of its violent activity, what it has accomplished is to say: “I am no longer the Deputy Prime Minister, I will not be responsible for Euro-Integration” and, more specifically, “I don’t want to.” In view of the fact that the post of Vice-Prime Minister for Eurointegration is now completely eliminated, society will never know: why was it created? The only thing left to do is to draw inconsolable conclusions. The crew was created solely for their good friend and was a banal attempt by the President to employ him. Or the refusal of the vice-premier of the question of Euro-integration in the new cabinet is a testimony to the President's recognition of his own error. In any case, society must know the value of presidential mercy, or of presidential error. This incident with Mr. Chief European Integrator of Ukraine gives us every reason to say that today we are dealing with the cynical technology produced by the authorities to avoid responsibility. A high - ranking official now needs to change his position in order not to report on the results of his activities. What's interesting is both the interpretation and the Constitution, the report on the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, or any member of the Government, is the prerogative of the Supreme Council, as far as today's, not the former Cabinet of Ministers, or a member of the Government. To remove doubts about the seriousness of the intentions of the course, I was hoping to get an answer, not waiting, and there is reason for doubt. Eight months later, the post of Vice-Prime Minister for European Integration turned out to be unnecessary. Why? What's behind this? Not the competence of the Fishman? Probably not, since you have no right to say it. Or is it something more serious? As for Ribauk's answer to my question, I'm convinced that they have to get to know her in society as a whole, both public organizations and lawyers. Therefore, the decision of the faction of the SDPU (o) according to the quota is to publish a document in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. As ansons: The answer is completely consistent with the already formed image of the head of the Presidential Secretariat. Please take a look, and first of all, please contact the President of Ukraine, because this is the report and his work, and please consider my statement as a request again. We want to know what the money was spent on at Rybauk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u39	Anatoly Rahansky is invited to attend because of his dissatisfaction with the response to requests from the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u40	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency The Eupatoria of the All-Ukrainian Child Health Center. I have been asked about 10 MPs during 2001-2005 – to prime ministers, defence ministers Kuzmuk, Marchuk, Škidchenka, Gritzenka for the failure to pay off the construction organization NP-28 of the city of Eupatoria, which employs 2,000 people in debt at the amount of 5 million wages for work, conducted in accordance with the instructions of ex-President Kuchma, twice the ex-Minister of the defence of Kuzmuk for the conduct of the NP-28 construction work at the airport. As well as building housing for military personnel in various regions of the state. By the way, the NR is 28 cities of Eupatoria directly subordinated to the Ministry of Defence, but all the prime ministers, defence ministers, like single-cell butterflies, are cynical about all my requests and say that the debt will be repaid later. Is that when they leave work? I think in this case they're fighting their own people. Not counting for four years 5 million dollars for work, workers are not paid wages, they do not pay taxes to the pension fund, to the courts of all institutions, they are obliged by the Ministry of Defence to pay off the debt, but the government, the Ministry of Defence, does not respect the judicial branch of government. What is Ukraine's introduction to NATO and the WTO we speak of as we struggle with our own people? Many ministers have been taught or trained abroad. I don't think you're being taught how to fight your own people, or maybe they're teaching you, I don't know. My colleagues, my constituents have ordered me not to vote in favour of the presidential, government draft laws until you pay off the debt of 5 million HR-28 dollars in the city of Eupatoria. As a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, 110 times from the rostrum of this Assembly, defending Ukraine during the January 2006 session, I will be critical of this fact. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister, as well as to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to bring the executing magistrates to justice for failure to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Justice in the amount of $4 million,982,000 of the NR-28 of the city of Eupatoria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u41	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the speech is over. We spent an hour of thirty - five minutes. I would ask my distinguished colleagues, when we speak, to respect our own decisions taken by the Supreme Council. That's first and foremost. But when you make a decision, you can't make a vote, and the next day you're going to burn yourself. I would like to say that we have observed that the Supreme Council is not wrong, not trying to please someone, but let's think about Parliament. Another moment that I can't respond to, I think some colleagues have chosen not the best way to fight with, in fact, the Head of the Supreme Council and the head of the party. Not the best way. And I think hysterical is a sign of fear. Sooner or later, we will have to answer everything to the Ukrainian community. I'd like to say, fellow honourable colleagues, you can't keep trying to carry the flag behind the wind and swim in any way as a matter of fact floats. You can't swim all the time because it swims in all the styles you know. And I would like to say to you, dear colleagues, don't guess today, run to the future. And you won't be able to shrink and act in such vile ways. Allow me to establish the truth. I want to make a public statement here. I have a similar attitude to the Gongadze case as Alexander Alexander Frost to the terrorist act in Bloody Rose. It's absolutely the same thing, and don't try to take the votes out in that way today, not the right way. And I'd like to ask you once again, dear colleagues, that you can't fight for a place on the list. For there is more, if there is no just judgment, there is God’s judgment and let us think about what we are talking about all the time. Thank you, we're done. We don't have a replica, because I didn't name a last name. Let's move on to the question, and then we'll talk out of the procedure. We have an announcement to make -- information about the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the work of the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Boris Illich, how much time do you need to do this? 20 minutes? Boris Ilchi asks for 20 minutes, no objection? Thank you. Right before we take a break, we're going to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, from October 3th to October 7th this year, there was another PARE session in Strasbourg, which was attended by a permanent delegation of the Supreme Council composed of national deputies: Gladys, Heads, Carpov, Klimpush, Kostinka, Kostinuk, Olijnik, Rybak. We were provided with our work: First Deputy Head of Communications, Tretak, Deputy Manager, Korniyczuk, Senior Adviser, Krilovecki, diplomats of Ukraine's permanent representation in Strasbourg, led by Shevchuk, for which we thank all of them. The following questions were raised in the agenda of the session: Compliance with Ukraine’s obligations and obligations, development policies as a positive means of regulating migration flows, forced disappearances, women and religion in Europe, education and religion, the functioning of democratic institutions in Moldova, forced and child marriages, and so forth. The Assembly elected the new Commissioner of the Council of Europe from the human rights of the representative of Sweden Hammerberg and the Secretary of the PARE of Spain, Sorinas. During the session, the opening ceremony was held in the Palace of Europe for the work of the Lviv artist Martinyuk, where the president of the Vanderlinden Parliamentary Assembly spoke, and Olijnik and Shevchuk also spoke. The full report of the delegation and the course of the session shall be submitted in accordance with the order set out. We are, of course, interested primarily in the subject entitled: “Observation of obligations and obligations by Ukraine, but that hearing has taken place on the threshold of the decade since the accession of our nation to this noble family. The rapporteurs generally commended Ukraine for its responsibilities and obligations to the Council of Europe. Volven believes that the post-election period is too short to require significant results. At the same time, she expressed concern about the powers of the Attorney General’s Office and the constitutional position of the imperative parliamentary mandate. Severinsen believes that the documents adopted at the session will serve as a road map for Ukraine’s democratic transformations. She emphasized that reforms should not be hindered by the political struggle that is now taking place in the country. The spokesman is also convinced that persons involved in manipulation during presidential elections should be brought to justice. Regrettably, she noted that there was no significant progress in the Gongadze case and expressed the expectation that the perpetrators of the crime would be exposed and punished. Considers future parliamentary elections as a harsh test of Ukraine’s democratic maturity. Hoffman Yushchenko believes that he is a firm supporter of the values that the Council of Europe chooses. She pointed out the importance of functioning in Ukraine as an independent court, which is the foundation of the rule of law. Vander Brande urged Assabella to support Ukraine in all its responsibilities. [[BeirutCity name ……]] Among the negatives of MPs, he referred to the problem of corruption, which had become an epidemic, of lack of progress in the Gongadze case. Oscina shared her concern about the situation of Russian in Ukraine, the deputy reported acts of protest in Crimea caused by local authorities to translate all Russian schools into Ukraine. [[Russia]] She also recalled the newly adopted Civil Procedure Code, which provides for the conduct of the judiciary exclusively in Ukrainian. The above, she thinks, is contrary to the spirit of friendly Russian-Ukrainian relations. Christodoulidis welcomed the efforts of the Ukrainian Parliament to fulfill its obligations and assured that PARJE would play an important role in the democratization of Ukraine. [[Cyprus]] Slutsky stopped at positive changes that were not reflected in the draft resolutions, including the recent memorandum between Yushchenk and Yanukovic. [[Russia]] Moreover, as he contemplates, the document avoids political pressure on opposition, corruption of the new authority, and the closure of Russian - speaking schools in Crimea. In the debate, Yuri Kostenko called the orange revolution the result of a 16-year struggle against national democracy for the right to live in a European house. The speaker believes that the Yushchenka presidency has established real freedom of speech, removed political censorship, and the standard of life becomes public control. At the same time, he criticized imperfect legislation that enabled the oligarch clans to acquire large assets, almost halting judicial and prosecutorial reforms, and so on. Responding to calls for pressure on Russian language in Crimea, Yuri Ivanovich recalled that in the peninsula a third of Ukraine’s population was essentially absent from Ukrainian schools. Hank Hawk, Gruberg, Tevdoradze, the Ukrainian delegation also made several amendments to the resolution aimed at speeding up the transition to the post-monitoring dialogue and clarifying some of the positions of the documents. [[United Kingdom]] [[Hungary]] [[Georgia]] Our colleague, Bogdan Kostinyuk, who successfully pierced and defended our amendments, must be noted. I also took part in the discussion, noting in particular that today's hearings for us are special since the 10th anniversary of Ukraine's accession to the Council of Europe. During this period, Ukraine has done much to meet the organization’s high standards, the vast majority of its commitments being made. But there are inexcusable delays in the investigation of Gongadze, Alexandrov, and the beating of Jeliaszkiewicz. However, I must admit that the criminal burden of exposing and punishing customers and direct killers of Guy Gongadze goes beyond all the limits of cynicism and inhuman cruelty, especially with regard to the mother of a journalist. In society, there is a growing belief that this is happening without the deliberate approval of the prosecutor’s office. The discussion resulted in the adoption of appropriate resolutions and recommendations. In the documents adopted, the Assembly welcomes Ukraine’s achievements in fulfilling its obligations and obligations to the Council of Europe and calls for continued democratic reforms despite political confrontation. It is stressed that the 2006 parliamentary elections will be an important test for the new authorities and the possibility of moving to post-monitoring cooperation with the Council of Europe is being considered. Parliamentary hearings on the Gongadze case are recommended. For me, resolutions and recommendations should be made public in the press, at least in a detailed lecture, so that the public at large will realize that the responsibilities must be fulfilled. I have also been able to participate in the debates on the report “SDR and the World Economy”, particularly when I observed that the death of the first firefighters, as well as the death of thousands of their brothers, as well as the temporary extinction of innocent lives, has taken place on the conscience of those who have concealed the truth about Chernobyl. Regrettably, even today some individuals are trying to find the truth about national tragedy, and mentioned that on September 6th in Vienna there was a meeting of the Chernobyl Forum, where a part of the participants supported the UN's conclusion that for almost 20 years the consequences of the CHAES disaster were exaggerated, I quote: “For the widespread national masses of concerns about the irradiation of Chernobyl were exaggerated. People in disaster-stricken regions, with little exception, live normally.” That's what Calman Miszeys from the United Nations Development Programme talked about. He even dared to accuse the governments of three countries affected by the disaster of saying, "They have built an industry on this accident." We simply have no right to abandon such blasphemy without proper reprisal. In almost 20 years, so-called scientists cannot allow themselves to be immersed over the graves of deadly radiation, over the thousands affected by Chernobyl. This is where Anatoly Warfolomiyovich, who has always asked this question every session of the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, there was no response. During an official visit to PARJE, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhajlovich Litwin, spoke before the parliamentary forum. He outlined Ukraine’s approach to upholding the principles of the rule of law, ensuring the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, European values promoted by the objectively balanced position of the Council of Europe, pointing to the civilizational maturity of the Ukrainian nation as evidenced by the 2004 presidential election, stressing that the PARE resolutions on Ukraine are perceived by society as guiding its further progress. To the conviction of Vladimir Mihajlovich, the democratic nature of the change in Ukraine, the political maturity demonstrated by the Ukrainian society, the commitment to European values and principles of democracy is a valid argument for moving to post-monitoring cooperation, highly appreciated the role of the Supreme Council in ensuring a legal solution to the deep political crisis caused by the Presidential campaign, noting that the 2006 parliamentary elections should mean the passing of the point of non-return and assured the Assembly of real, guaranteed democracy. Finally, the head of the Supreme Council answered the parliamentary questions. Both the speech and the response of Vladimir Lithuania were at a level worthy of the speaker of the European state. All of this was duly appreciated by the representatives of the Council of Europe, President Van der Linden, the genius Terry Davis, who invited the Chief of the Supreme Council. One word, the hearing took place in a constructive, considerate atmosphere, where we held on to dignity, as was the case with the representatives of Ukraine. The success of the discussion was facilitated by the active activity of all members of delegations on committees, political commissions, and the prior reconciliation of law with reports by Hanna Seaversen and Renata Wolvin. Now postscriptum. To this day’s PARE session, I have not deliberately responded at home or in Strasbourg to the unfriendly experiences of some unbalanced persons so as not to advertise their intentions of planting a poisonous family of disunity among our peoples. Meanwhile, jumps are becoming more aggressive, especially with a host of language problems. Whatever you say, this delicate, childish and dangerous sphere will always have subjects to create tension. And we neighbors, not without mistakes and mistakes, but the wisdom of politicians is not to sharpen, but to take away the pain and solve even the most confusing knots on a mutual basis. Regrettably, some members of the Russian delegation have moved on to applications for the Council of Europe session, accusing Ukraine of suppressing Russian, where would you think? In Crimea. This is already bordering on the jadeness that is built on the misinformation of the members of the assembly. For example, in a similar statement addressed to the People of Crimea, I quote: “It is not only Russian but also Crimean Tatars, Jews, Greeks, Armenians, Poles, Bulgarians, Moldovans, Gypsies.” As you can see, the Ukrainians are not even mentioned, even though they make up a third of the population of Crimea, where the only all-U.S. newspaper on all-criminal scale is barely smoldering if it has no longer faded out, where the intention of opening a Ukrainian school has met severe opposition. So who do we have to protect in Crimea? However, we do not ask these and similar questions in a European forum, but we try to resolve them on a mutual basis. Although we have every reason to appeal to the same Europe when we are in extreme positions: why there is no Ukrainian school in Russia, where millions of ethnic Ukrainians live and work, or any Ukrainian newspaper on the whole. But we don't take it out on the world people, but we want to solve the problem face-to-face. Yet, it seems that someone does want us to follow this course with the apparent consequences of disunity. The fact that such lovers will never be able to strain the barbed wire between the hearts of the Russians and the Ukrainians is axioma. However, the official Kremlin will not be interested in those who, and whose motives, compromise Russia on a European level. In this regard, in order to avoid any misinterpretation, I turn to Russian in their native language, which I have loved and cherished since childhood. Many brothers in Russia, I ask you very much to check the authority of those who, on your behalf, try to sow seeds of enmity between our peoples. Those who are not concerned may think that. And in truth, the Russians. Therefore, let our dear neighbors be friends of the nations without mediators. My honor, thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u43	Thank you, Boris Illich. Dear colleagues, who are not yet familiar with the PARE resolution last and the PARE material, I would like to request the secretariat to distribute to all national deputies, as well as to transmit for publication in the Voice of Ukraine. Is there no objection? None. Shall we take a break or not? Dear colleagues, perhaps before the break we would consider accepting two applications, since the anniversary is about to be redesigned at the right time. Is there no objection? Then I'd like to immediately ask Oleg Grachev, the first deputy head of the committee, to express the position of the committee on two of these documents. It's a draft decree, registration numbers 7640, 7641.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, on October 5, this year, the committee considered the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the Supreme Council's statement on the 60th anniversary of the United Nations. Ukraine, as one of the founding States of the United Nations, gives exceptional importance to the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of international peace and security by considering the organization's participation as an important factor in its foreign policy. Ukraine wants this most authoritative international universal organization to be raised to a qualitatively new level and freed from unnecessary politics, becoming pragmatic and open - minded. Ukraine will no doubt be actively involved in the international process for the implementation of sustainable development policies with a view to addressing the challenges of environmental protection and the economic growth of humankind at the global level. The adoption of this decision is based on the need to draw the attention of the world community to the historical and perhaps modern role of Ukraine as part of its active participation in the work of the organization, to address the acute socio-economic problems of science, culture, education, the spread of ideals of peace, democracy, justice, and to demonstrate our State's willingness to make every effort in the United Nations to achieve the social, economic, environmental and spiritual progress of mankind, to participate actively in the search for the best possible ways to improve the organization's activities and improve its effectiveness. The spread of the foretold statement will have a positive impact on the expansion of cooperation between Ukraine and the United Nations. The committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a committee-worked decision, in which the statements took into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the members of the committee. The completed project is in agreement with the author. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u45	Please, Sergey Gmira, ask me a question, please. Maybe we should vote and accept the document. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u46	Thank you. Of course, this document should be accepted, but here's the question. What about the fact that the authorities today are actually proposing to violate the fundamental principles of the United Nations? All documents, when established by the UN, from 1 January 1942 to 1945, when the UN was proclaimed, state that every country and every political force that opposes one of the United Nations is against all the United Nations as a whole. In these circumstances, there is today a cry for recognition by the warring party of the UN-OPA. This is a gross violation of all the documents on which the United Nations is built. I think that in adopting such a decision, we must, at the same time, as Parliament, declare that we recognize all the principles proclaimed by the UN.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u47	Thank you, Sergei Petrovich. You're absolutely right, and in the statement I spoke about, that's exactly what's being stressed. With regard to the specific formation of UNO-UPA, all similar formations around the world belong to, say, the categories of collaborators. And that's what I think it's all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u48	Two more questions. Please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch and then Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Unlike our colleague, who raised the subject at all, Ukraine was known to be among the founders of the United Nations. Ukraine is well represented there and, by the way, our colleague in the sessional hall of Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko, was the Head of the UN Assembly, which means that the world recognized Ukraine and highly appreciated it. And we've always followed the UN's underlying documents. Therefore, I think we should not, perhaps, make any additional commitments that no one demands and everyone knows that Ukraine is a worthy partner of the United Nations, other countries. And does it not seem to you that, if you are offered additional commitments to Ukraine and prove that the grass is green and the sky is blue, that it would be a humiliation of Ukraine’s possible national dignity?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u50	In your speech, Boris Jakovitch, as it were, there is no question. So I'm going to hold back from commenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u51	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u52	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists First. Indeed, the determination of the trumpet to accept, but once the discussion began, there is obviously a need to discuss this provision. Based on the logic of the Communist faction, the Soviet Union must also be ruled out by Russia of the United Nations for its alliance with Hitler in 39 C.E. So it's better to reject these questions. But I am concerned that this regulation does not reflect the new trends that apply to the UN. It's about the restructuring of the UN, as we see it, the fight against terrorism, the treatment of globalization. These new trends that are now staring at the UN, we're not talking about this. And I wanted to complete this decision in the discussion. As a result, I feel that it may need to be accepted and processed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u53	It's already a workable decision, where to work on it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u54	This decree has been finalized. And if you look at the second point, I think there's a way to count what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u55	I think Gennady Josephovich will judge us as former president of the UN General Assembly. So Gennady's Josephic microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u56	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! During the 60 years of the United Nations, the United Nations has done a great deal for mankind, but the major achievement of the United Nations has been that it has prevented the end of World War III. We were here, here she is. And we were watching from the Baltic Warming, how Soviet and American rocket launchers were approaching each other. But the UN has done everything to prevent the war. I propose both decisions to accept, the observation by the scientific and expert administration that we cannot assign the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to extend it as a statement, it's groundless, it's ignorance of the procedure, all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u57	Microphone, please, microphone. It's all right, isn't Gennady Josephovich, you're all set, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u58	Thank you, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, since this document has already been finalized, since on 24 October the date, I am putting to the vote, honourable colleagues, well, all the motives have already been given us, I am voting on the approval of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 60th anniversary of the United Nations. Registration number 7641. Please vote. [[12:06:49]] For 321 Decision taken. I am voting for the approval of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree to mark the 60th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations in Ukraine, registration number 7640. [[12:07:17]] For 333 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, before recess, please listen to the announcement. During the break, I would like to ask you to receive materials at the registration tables for consideration of the State budget for Ukraine for 2006. That's the first one. The other one. At 4:30 today, the conference room will meet with the NATO North Atlantic Council, headed by the Secretary-General of NATO and the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, with the participation of ambassadors accredited to Brussels. The faction leaders as well as the heads of the professional committees are invited to attend. [[I emphasize, faction leaders or authorized, but one by one. one representative]] They know. I'd like, your honor, to be at this meeting for a dialogue. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u60	We continue the meetings, we move on to the Ratifications section, the ratification issues. A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 173 of 1992 on the protection of workers' requirements in the event of employer insolvency is under consideration. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Tötkin Vladimir Ivanovich Please. Get ready for Dryma. Vladimir Ivanovich, within three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u61	Respectable national MPs, the resolution of the problem of paying off wages and the corresponding protection of workers' labour rights for timely remuneration for work guaranteed by article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be achieved without the repayment of debts from the wages of employees of bankruptcy enterprises. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the International Organization Convention No. 173 since 1992 on the Protection of Employees' Claims in the event of insolvency will enable the employer to join the convention and demonstrate his willingness to comply with international standards in order to ensure the protection of employees' requirements for obtaining an indebted salary in the event of the employer's inability to pay. The draft law stipulates that Ukraine is under an obligation to comply with the requirements of chapter two of this convention. Convention rules specify the minimum amount of wages and other eligible employees from the employer who may be granted the status of a privileged loan and set the minimum amount of paid wages to be paid to the employees of the bankrupt employer. Subjects to the convention are central and local executive authorities, other bodies or officials involved in the process of liquidation of banks, according to their competence. The implementation of the above - mentioned draft Ukrainian law will not require additional expenditure. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes Alexandrovska. It's nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Ivanovich! You have rightly observed that wage guarantees are, in fact, local authorities, but limited to a certain amount of guarantees. You know, do you read that it's fair? A lot of people who have to deal with depraved businesses, businesses that have stopped actually have to work thousands of bracelets, there are tens of thousands of bracelets, there are voters calling me. We are ratifying an agreement here, a convention that allows for the limitation of this amount to be paid. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u64	The convention provides two solutions to this problem. The first path proposed in this bill is to support the second part. The second part provides for the granting of a privileged payment in the course of bankruptcy and the execution of such procedures. And it's defined, really, the minimum amount that is at least three average wages at the time of bankruptcy. The Supreme Council has accepted the change before. As we prepared this bill, we prepared in parallel changes to the law on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy. You remember, article 31, when translated, granted a privileged payment, a salary, a privileged payment status, and three average wages transferred from the second order of payment at the bankruptcy stage to the first. Part two. The third part of this convention provides for the creation of guarantee institutions that compensate employees of enterprises that are already declared bankrupt, so they can't in any way pay off the amounts they owe, and then this guarantee institution works. We have a bill that has been drafted, but this has to do with extra effort on the payroll fund, because we need to build this fund. We suggest that we create it at the expense of the employer and at the expense of the state budget. But when a bill on a single social tax is being drafted, we've postponed the job a little bit, but if there's political will, you can also accept a third of the convention, which provides compensation for those workers who don't work anymore, that is, those enterprises that are already declared bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u65	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u66	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, of course, this convention must be supported, I think we will vote, there is no doubt. I have a slightly broader question. Vladimir Ivanovich, we have returned to the topic several times in the past years, we, I mean both Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers on the repayment of the total payroll debt. Last year, the Cabinet of Ministers was quite active in this work. The entire programme had been adopted, all relevant decisions had been taken and, in all cases, the topic had turned to the best. Unfortunately, this year, the subject awakens, and I have also made a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers, a truth that has already gone by then, to this day, and then to a former power, about that. For example, coal miners are beginning to have wage debts. I have a broader question: is there today the Cabinet of Ministers' programme for the payment of salaries throughout the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u67	Well, this work is recognized as a government priority and a past, and an active government, so mechanisms for implementing this problem. They are, this is monitoring compliance with the legislation on the payment of labour by the State, namely the State Labour Inspectorate. This is the involvement of law enforcement agencies in this matter, in view of the fact that criminal responsibility has been established. Any, last year, you remember that, in fact, there were allocated loans to pay off the debt, and there was an irrevocable allocation of 90 million to repay the debt owed to the farmers of the bankrupt rural farms. This year, no such funds are available, although a certain amount of the Supreme Council's decision has been allocated to pay off the debt to coal workers -- this has slightly improved the situation, but the main problem is that this year, current wages are being paid poorly, let's say, yes. And it's hard for me to say what kind of program it should have some kind of filling of funding sources, and so it's based on controlling authorities and the responsibility of employers for not paying their wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u68	Thank you, Volodymyr Ivanovich, sit down. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhi, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the issue of protecting the rights of a hired worker in part of the timely and full payment of wages, in the case of recognition of a business by bankruptcy or the restoration of its ability to pay, is not new for Ukrainian legislation. You know that this issue is regulated by the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor’s Payments and the Law on Paying for Work. I would like to remind all the MPs, first of all the majors and the national MPs, who, according to the decision of the faction or the party, have a political fixation on certain districts. Remember the letters, and the complaints of the people about the inability to get debts on wages, even if people had not just court decisions on their hands, but also executive sheets. From year to year, this fibula was carried out, and in this sessionary room, we repeatedly passed bills to try to eliminate this despair and despair. And here's Bill 4205, remember, these are the two bills, the honourable colleagues of Alexandrovsk and Simonek, and the Suhog bill we put on the committee in one. He is working today, making changes to Article 31 of the Pay for Work Act, and to this day this question is resolved to make this process irreversible, or irreversible. We must and must ratify the International Labour Organization Convention No. 173. And another observation. The point is that we have repeatedly referred to this convention with you when we tried to implement such a bill in this session room. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to overcome the veto, and here's this bill that I was just talking about, it's been adopted in a new edition and it's working today. One word about how and how this is for major MPs. I am again. The complaints that continue to come to our address that this ratification that the ratification of this convention gives us? We have the ability at the legislative level to provide a person or to offer a person the following protection of the employee's requirements, because it introduces a new term. The term is called privilege. What privilege is this? With regard to other creditors who have a business that is bankrupt, the number one creditor now becomes a human wage, so our state for ten years when, if this ratification is not denounced, it assumes such a commitment and protects the pay by virtue of a privilege. The employee’s salary requirement is no less than three months. What are we talking about? We can talk about social justice or injustice, because people's debts are collected in a few years, but today we're talking about one part of this convention, so we're doing a process of the privilege of pay in a number of creditors of a particular bankrupt enterprise with pay number one. So what we talked to you about and what we fought for in this session room is happening and will be confirmed by the ratification of the convention. I invite you and the committee has decided to support the ratification of this convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u70	Shall we discuss it? Yes, dear colleagues, there were nine national deputies. If you take one minute, will you bet the ones who signed up? You want to bet? Please, Vitaly Shibko, follow by Eugene Gorenik. Microphone, please, Shibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I want to emphasize that this is a necessary accession to the convention we are already doing very late. It's too late because the bankruptcy that took place in our businesses took place today in a dense, deaf corner. What am I talking about? We now make a commitment to privileges. So we, as you've heard in this report, are still not coming to guarantee agencies. And what privileges mean, you've just heard the speech of a colleague of the Dry One. Here you can add what you do for work on weekends, and the weekends, and so on. That is whether, today, those bankrupt businesses that we have are able to work under this convention. They can't. So we can already cross out what happened. And we accept and join the convention only for the future, if there is, indeed, such a situation. For this reason, we can only join the convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u72	Please, Eugene Gorenik, the microphone behind him, Basil Nadraga.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u73	Eugene Gorenik. Of course it's necessary to ratify this convention and I don't want to repeat that it's too late and, unlike the examples that have even been in the royal Russia, when employers who couldn't pay their wages have been shot and something here among our new oligarchs doesn't see it. And in the event of bankruptcy, we have the opportunity to watch them go to Mercedes, and they don't feel any discomfort. So you have to ratify, but you don't have to get out of control, except for the privilege of ratifying part three, which is the very guarantee of payment. I don't know if it's possible to put this into the text of today's ratification, but it's obviously the kind of fund and insurance we need to make so that our employees can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, please follow him, Mikhail Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u75	Vassili Nadrag. I have already expressed the position of the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, as part of this convention, I will not repeat. Here's what I'd like to say. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, in considering this issue, we must clearly understand that this is only the beginning of the road. Because, once again, last year, debt was repaid on salary, and the Cabinet of Ministers was centralized, on the whole of the State. Regrettably, this year's work has failed. And second moment. I would still like to understand and ask the relevant committee the question and the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, when will we do our utmost to adopt, including this convention, and part three, which provides a full guarantee for the protection of wages for workers in respect of their payment? Therefore, from this point of view, I believe that today we must clearly realize that, by adopting this convention, we are only at the beginning of the road. And based on that logic, the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania will vote in favour of the convention, firmly convinced that the State-wide debt-recovery programme should still exist today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u76	Mikhail Volintz. Behind him is Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u77	And now the situation is that the employees in bankruptcy are unprotected. I have a large number of employees' appeals on the grounds that employers thus, in compliance with the requirements of legislation when an enterprise is declared bankrupt, meet the demands of other creditors, and the demands of employees remain unsatisfactory. The International Labour Organization Convention No. 73 on the protection of employee requirements in the event of the employer's incapacity specifies the minimum amount of salary and other appropriate remuneration paid to the employer who may be granted the status of the privileged loan and sets the minimum amount of remuneration payable that may be paid to the employee of the bankrupt employer. Ratification of the convention will help to resolve the problem of paying off the wages of employees in their liquidation and will allow the national legislation to specify the terms for which payment of salaries and other labour-related costs is guaranteed by the State. It is also worth noting that ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. He's got Alexander's Alla.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, this subject in Ukraine is so painful that it affects about half of our citizens with these indemnities and indemnities. As a result, I am absolutely convinced that Ukraine, as a member of the International Labour Organization, should ratify this. That is why I call on all the hands that we have to insist on the buttons so that we can vote for it. But, Adam Ivanovich, I'd like to, because there's nothing I can catch up with anymore. We are well aware of our resourceful people, especially our officials’ instincts. And I have such a warning that there will also be adjectives here that will invent or commit artificial bankruptcy or something to normally count with people and not to be brought to trial at the expense of, let's say, the same state. It's very important. We can't intervene in the convention anymore, because this is an international document, and this is just a protocol commission from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u80	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Behind her is Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u81	Respected colleagues, ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention for the Protection of the Claims of Workers in the event of incapacity of the employer is of the utmost importance. But what I want to say is that the real mechanism of artificial bankruptcy, it's already gone through Ukraine, and today really a lot of people in the agricultural sector, in agriculture, in general, have been thrown out of the machinery complex for non-remunerated wages. The Convention is necessary. On the other hand, there are some problems that the Convention does not solve. We have already heard that the amount of debt to be paid is expected to be limited. I believe that we must ratify this Convention today, but demand that the Government continue to work towards joining the third part and considering guarantees of full repayment of wages debts, because the reform that we are reaping today in Ukraine reaps the fruits of people who have been deprived of their wages, we must solve this problem with you. The third part of the Convention should therefore be ratified by developing appropriate mechanisms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u82	Thank you. Mikola Nightshenko, please, microphone. You don't? Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u83	I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u84	Yes, there is. Who is responsible for this misinformation? Talk to me, Mikola Petrovich. Spoiler microphone, please. Enabled. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u85	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymira Litvina National Block. I want to focus on another participant in this discussion, this is the debt of the employees of the institutions, the institution that was founded by the state, these are ministries and offices, they're district government administrations. Many utilities have bankrupted, eliminated, and worked through the full procedure, the court procedure for compensation for their fees. Thousands of court decisions are not being implemented. What I'm saying is that we already need to involve the possibilities of government and local budgets. Now for the Convention. The faction will vote in favour of ratifying the Convention as the first step in applying civil European norms in the relations of employers and those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u86	Yes, please, Vladimir Cherniak microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u87	Honourable National Deputies, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Yuri Kostenko, will vote in favour of ratifying the Convention for the Protection of Workers' Claims in the event of the employer's inability to pay. Joining this convention is a step towards eliminating workers' invulnerability from their employers. The problem is that the employer is obliged to pay the wages of the company’s bankruptcy. The point is that it's a financial bankruptcy, it's a rehabilitation of businesses, it's a recovery of businesses, but it's not for workers to suffer. This is a requirement that needs to be kept in perspective. And if this convention isn't all done, I think we're going to go to Ukraine on the way to solving this problem, on the way to pay the wages, if even the enterprise went bankrupt. In fact, it's on its way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u88	Yes, the discussion is over. All who desired to do so had the opportunity to express their thoughts. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 173 of 1992 on the protection of employee requirements in the event of employer insolvency. Registration number 0301. I'd like to give you 300 votes. [[13:04:57]] For 302 Thank you. 302, decision taken. Overturned by two. A draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 131 on the establishment of minimum wages, with special consideration for developing countries, is under consideration. Registration number 0302. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich Tjotkin, Deputy Minister. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on a bill for the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention No.131 on the establishment of minimum wage, with special consideration for developing countries. Ukraine wants to become a market-economy country, so national legislation on minimum wage should correspond to these market ambushes. National legislation on the establishment of minimum wages is fully in line with the rules of this convention. First, as required by the convention, the legislation on pay for work, State social standards and State social security has established criteria and conditions for determining minimum wages. The minimum wage is determined by taking into account macroeconomic indicators, economic development, subsistence minimum, average average wage, labour productivity, employment level and other economic conditions. Second, there is a procedure for setting minimum wages. The minimum wage is laid down in the State Budget Act for the corresponding year following the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In doing so, it is ensured that consultations are held to determine the minimum wage of employers and trade unions. Thirdly, there is a procedure for regulating the minimum wage depending on inflationary processes. According to article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, the minimum wage may be revised by amending the National Budget Act of Ukraine depending on the index of consumer prices and tariffs for services under the old collective bargaining agreement. The minimum wage at present is not part of the organization’s wages; it is not directly related to the formation of a tariff system of wages; and it serves as a protection against poverty. However, since January 1st of the following year, it has been legislatively established that it will provide only a share of the wage and thus be part of the organization of wages. In order to ensure the effective application of all minimum wage regulations in Ukraine, a government body has been set up – the State Department of Oversight for the enforcement of labour legislation in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which also fully complies with Convention No. 131. Please support this bill as part of its ratification of our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u90	Thank you. They're willing to ask. Please sign in. Please, three minutes. Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u91	Turn it on, yeah? Dear Vladimir Ivanovich! Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Say, please, since Ukraine will be recognised as a market economy state, that is, a mature capitalist state, what is the ratio of the minimum wage to the minimum wage of the middle European? That's the first question. And the second question, as you think, when we start in our speeches, I mean the government and the ministers, is to mention that we should not only have European tariffs and European prices, but also European wages, because we always forget, the European salary, but the Guinean salary. Please, I very much ask you to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u92	Well, me now. I just don't have data on Europe, the middle. In individual countries of SND there are, and I also want to confirm this thesis, which, in fact, our minimum wage is far behind the minimum wage in Europe, but in some countries different approaches. In some lands the minimum wage is not a determining factor in setting or shaping wages. It's just a certain guarantee and, well, for example, if we have a minimum wage of 111 dollars, 111 dollars, 590 dollars or 111 dollars. In Russia 237 — twice as many — in Kazakhstan 207, that is, comparative data. And in Europe, unfortunately, I don't have that kind of data with me, I'm just not ready to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u93	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u94	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party Dear reporter, we are considering a law on the ratification of an international labour organisation convention on the establishment of a minimum wage, with special account taken of developing countries. What are some of the features of Ukraine as a developing country? Is it lying power or political repression or corruption or yesterday’s economy? What are the characteristics of our nation in this issue of ratification, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u95	The specificities of our state are that unfortunately we cannot yet fully ensure the social standards that are set out in the plan that the minimum wage should not be below the minimum wage. Now it's 72.3%. Proposed by the budget on. In the 2006 budget project, 80 per cent of the minimum wage in terms of living minimum is achieved. And the position of the government is that you need to gradually, taking into account macroeconomic indicators, to get to that level. It was predicted in its own time that we would reach this level in 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u96	Thank you, sit down, please. Jaroslav Suhiy, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, a brief comment on the previous convention. I thank the committee for supporting her. Regarding lateness, colleagues said, I would like to remind you that for three years in this session hall, we have tried with you 14 drafts that would make the first pay for other liabilities. Just the last bill, as we adopted it in May, signed by President 4205. So, of course, the late government response was, but the Supreme Council kept its hand on the pulse of time. It is proposed that the Committee ratify International Labour Convention No. 131 on minimum wage. The nature of the bill and this convention was reported here by Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Policy Vladimir Ivanovich Tötkin. This is about setting a minimum wage with special consideration for developing countries. What I'm saying is that this gives the Supreme Council what it gives society, what it gives to our Ukrainian people, what it gives to the legislative base? We're going to be able to do that after this convention's ratification, we're going to be able to provide legislatively: first, filling in the legislative concept of reforming the pay system, so we can pay in a pitiful amount of costs to raise above energy carriers, bank loans, taxes and depreciation deductions. Second, we will be able to fill our strategy of combating poverty with real meaning. You know very well, and here's the question, dear fellow Droguntz asked about the specific conditions, the poor and Denmark, the poor are also in Norway, the poor are in the United States, but Ukraine has the unique poor, we have the poor among the working population. This is not the case in any country that calls itself civilized. They're not social elements, they're people from active industrial enterprises for small wages. And the third. We have the ability, at last, to end up here in this session hall, and we will be obliged to vote on a bill to set up a minimum hourly wage. That's what I'm talking about, my dear colleague, Gunnery, it won't allow a variety of proponents to transfer people to 0.50 or 0.75 bets, and that kind of bad practice today you know is also applied in the budget area, when it's not possible to pay the right level of wages, people are artificially transferred to part-time work. And another thing you can see today is that we have a sharp braking of wage growth, unlike in 2005, where the growth was 139 percent. In 2006, wage growth is projected to be slightly lower. And the last thing this convention will give us, this convention will give us what we see, it'll take tens of billions of dollars to somehow raise wages. That is, we can motivate the government, we can motivate the authorities to produce, we can do national farming, we can do what the Supreme Council and the government do. In the name of production and material goods, the committee proposes and requests support for a bill on the ratification of the memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u98	Yes, dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's take advantage of the previous procedure, and eight national deputies have expressed a desire to speak in a minute. Please, Vitalia Šibka's microphone, behind it is Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u99	Thank you, Hiccup. The Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to pay attention to colleagues, although we are a developing country, but if we join this convention, we will make the way to a civilized state. And I point out that, first of all, according to this convention, we're no longer going to be glamorous, as they say here, we're doing this in the Supreme Council, we're going to be taking what level of minimum wage is going to be, and first of all we need to know these groups of hired workers who need this wage set up. The language was already in the report that there would be an appropriate authority to do this, and he would be doing it scientifically, but the main thing is that they would be involved here before this category was defined, both by employers and by trade unions. So today we're going to be spreading the scope of the involvement of those organizations, not government organizations, including those that are going to deal with this issue and who are going to be making these proposals to the Supreme Council, and we're going to be accepting and scientifically based.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u100	Eugene Gorenik, followed by Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u101	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists In principle, I agree with the findings of the Science and Technology Administration. All of these positions, which are set out in the convention, are in our legislation. I don't see what this convention can do for us as a nation. Once again, we're going to take ourselves to developing countries, although this can only be applied on a level of pay and not on an economic level. All the positions set out in the convention are provided for in our legislation, so the convention, as far as I'm concerned, does not add anything to us, and perhaps a little depriving us of the image of Ukraine. I don't see much need for her ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u102	Please, Basil Nadrag, follow him Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u103	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we are discussing some important issues with you today and, I think, we will vote in the same way as we did in the previous convention. But I'd like to take a few moments. First. It's absolutely right here that we have to move on to an hourly wage. Because the smart guys who plant, including the budget, 0.75, or at 0.5 rates, are bullying people. Based on this logic, it is perfectly correct to repeat once again the position that we must not allow this to happen. There are even more cruel things, though. This year, some have made it wise to work with the budgeters to go to a total reduction. I would like to remind you that Vladimir Mihajlovich Litwin had to deal personally with closing schools in the Žitomir region, and the faction of the People's Party of Lithuania had not once stated that we would not allow the transition to 0.75 and 0.5 rates. Therefore, when we talk to you today about our support for this convention, we must clearly understand that the Cabinet of Ministers should not only deal with the harmonization of conventions, but also with respect for the responsibility of its people, those who work part-time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u104	Mikhail Volintz. After him, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u105	Mikhailo Wolintz, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill envisages ratifying the International Labour Organization Convention No. 131 on the establishment of a minimum wage, with special account being taken of developing countries. For no one is the secret of the situation that has arisen in our country with the establishment of a minimum wage. So to a certain extent in national legislation, this issue is settled, but in practice we see quite different. We really need to pay attention to the standards of the convention, since we are to some extent a developing country. Ratification of the convention will help improve decisions already taken or taken in the future to determine the minimum wage, taking into account the specificities of the state situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u106	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Behind him is Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski, Reform and Order Party. Dear Parliamentarians! I feel like we just don't have a choice today to vote in favour of ratifying this document, because we are members of the International Labour Organization. It seems to me that this convention, here they said that it will do nothing to help, I think it will help us to be lazy and shy, and we will still be pressured by the government, and Parliament to the wall with this document, and finally we will move on to the hourly wager and give up this Saudi stand there or 0.8 bets. The second positive aspect of this document is that it reminds Ukraine that it is developing. Unfortunately, it just doesn't say which way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u108	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Mikola Nightshenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Ratification of the International Labour Organization's Minimum Wages Convention is, of course, necessary to ratify. It has already been said that almost most of the provisions of this Convention are implemented by our laws and regulations. The only question is, unfortunately, all of this is far from perfect in terms of performance. But why do I think we need to ratify this convention? We're getting under international control. By ratifying this convention, we show that we are under the control of the international community. It's very important. We have employees today turning to the courts, there are strikes, there are protests, but the power is not responding. In terms of international pressure, there may be some progress on these issues. It is very important that in this Convention, article 2, the minimum wage is obtained by law, although we have such a law with you. And it's not allowed to go down. It is very important that the violation of this provision should be criminalized under the Convention, and we will seek to do so. The Convention requires that the issue of minimum wages be made compulsory by collective agreements. Once again, it became mandatory to conclude collective agreements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u110	Mikola Nightshenko, please follow him Vladimir Cherniak. All in equal conditions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u111	Mikola Nightshank, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Ukraine has the most industrious nation, it is the most industrious nation. And at the same time, the lowest price of goods in Ukraine compared to Europe. At the same time, it has the lowest wage in comparison with Europe. If we are going to Europe, to the European Union, there should be a minimum wage for Europe. I'm sorry, but that's the fact that the department of profile doesn't know about it. We should be oriented towards these two thousand euros, which today is being received by the average citizen of Europe. Our faction votes in favour of the ratification of the OICA Convention 131. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u112	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u113	The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party will vote in favour of the ratification of this Convention. This is a step in the right direction. We are Europeans and, God forbid, that Europe should be Ukrainianized and Ukraine represented in all European structures. As far as the Convention is concerned, it must be acknowledged that the minimum wage is an extremely important social standard. We've moved into national legislation on this path, but it's practically not. So we have to go this way. Now, it's very important that we have the right controls. There was control and sanctions for violating non-compliance with the Convention, otherwise it would not follow. I do not think that it is an insult to Ukraine to the slogan “with special consideration of developing countries”. In Ukraine, wages are very low, and there is reason for such a treatise. God forbid Ukraine develops.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'd like to refocus your attention on what you're talking about here. Note that this convention was signed on June 22, 1970. When it was signed, our nation, including that of another State, was not a member of another State in the developing world. Now, unfortunately, we're either in the developing world or we're in the developing world. As Suhi says, that is what happened. I am voting on the ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention Act No. 131 on the establishment of minimum wages with special account taken of developing countries. Registration number 0302. Please vote. [[13:25:57]] For 298 Here my colleagues make a note that there was a period of stagnation and nothing was developing. I think there's a lot that I'd like to go back to that delay. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on Trade and Economic Cooperation is being complied with. Registration number 0289. Deputy Minister of Economy Brezny Andriy Viktorovich. Prepare Player. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u115	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on trade and economic cooperation developed by the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine with a view to ratifying the Supreme Council has been between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on trade and economic cooperation signed on 25 June 2004 in San Marino. The agreement is subject to ratification under article 9, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts. The adoption of the bill will form an integral part of the ratification procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Agreement between San Marino and Ukraine on Trade and Economic Cooperation. Acquiring the agreement will be the legal basis for a stable increase in bilateral trade and economic relations, improving the standard of living of citizens of the State, and efficient use of natural and human resources. The agreement provides for the development of bilateral economic cooperation on an equal, mutually beneficial basis in the economic and commercial spheres. The agreement is given by the parties to one another the most favourable regime in respect of customs, assemblies and procedures for their collection in the course of export-import operations. Parties encourage contacts between business circles, including by promoting joint ventures, international exhibitions and fairs. The agreement was submitted for ratification by the Supreme Council Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of July 21, 2005, No. 634. The implementation of the draft law does not require the cost of the State budget. The government proposes to support, asks, the Supreme Council to support the draft Ukrainian law. It should be noted that San Marino is a small European state in Italy. The circulation of goods between our countries is quite small, but the country is small but quite influential in political, economic circles. There's virtually no legal basis. We supply light goods in San Marino, as well as basic industries, and we think it's part of the overall development of contractual and legal relations with our trading partners. Please support ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u116	Thank you. There's a question. Please sign up. Please, three minutes. Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear reporter, would you please say that the total turnover of Ukraine with the Republic of San Marino accounts for a percentage compared to Europe as a whole or compared to SND as a whole? How much is it? So we can think about the weight of the detail in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say there's a shipment. The fraction is generally very small. For. In general with European countries, 29 percent of Ukraine, 33 percent with SND countries. At the same time, if you look at it this year, at export volumes, it's over $20 billion. At that. So a third of us have 5.6 billion from Europe, and in this context, from San Marino, we have 18 million shipments last year. So it's a completely small amount, and from a point of view of trade, it's completely indeterminate. Well, in terms of developing relationships and stabilizing these relationships in order for businessmen to work together, this is a necessary step in shaping framework conditions for business relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u119	Please, Alexander Bandurka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u120	Mr. Deputy Minister! Alexander Bandurka, People’s Party I'd like to make a point: San Marino isn't in the Italian Republic, it's an independent state, and it's just an insult if you include it so spontaneously in Italy. But the question is, did the San Marino government cancel a visa-free Italian visa in response to the Ukrainian President's request to cancel the visa-free entry to Ukraine from European countries? Did they make a similar gesture, or should one of the European countries, or should we still make an Italian visa to go to San Marino? Finally, I was asked for import. This ratification is purely formal. Someone from the government, with high-ranking tourists as a public budget, went to San Marino and made a deal that we were to ratify. We will vote in favour, but we need to prepare more carefully for information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for correcting an inaccurate statement, and I will avoid that in the future. In fact, San Marino didn't react the way you said it was about visas, so we'll still be working, first of all, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As far as signing was concerned, it was in line with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorized person appropriately signed, well, and this will be considered in the future, your observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u122	Thank you, but on occasion, really, sit down, please, I would just like to ask that it would probably be very proper if the signatures that signed were deciphered. It's Friday, isn't it? But it's desirable that when we get ratified, the signatures be deciphered: who on behalf of the government put it. Please, Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u123	Your Honor, your colleagues. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on Trade and Economic Cooperation was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and recommended for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On behalf of Ukraine, the deal was signed on June 25 last year in San Marino as deputy minister of the economy of Ukraine at the time – Friday. He was not there on a tourist visa, so, as it were, what Bandurka said was not quite, not quite right. As the deputy minister has said, gaining the validity of the agreement will be a legal basis for economic growth and improving the standard of living of the people of both countries. I would like to point out that the implementation of the agreement does not provide for additional financial costs from the state budget of Ukraine, the agreement does not contain provisions which conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine and does not require the adoption of new laws or changes to the current legislation of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the agreement. The Economic Policy Committees, the People's Agriculture and Investment Management and European Integration Committees also support the ratification of the quota. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Here we have arranged a one - minute Rules for those who have signed up. Yes. We continue this tradition: Yuri Solomatin, microphone, please. Then Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u125	Thank you, Yuri Solomatine. Dear colleagues! Of course, I respect San Marino, but I love Ukraine even more. And so I want to say that this agreement is just one small step that strengthens Ukraine's position in the Western direction. But it would be even better if our positions were strengthened both in the East and, above all, Turkmenistan, first of all, in Kazakhstan, first of all in Russia, on which we depend on the energy supply. And now this act is one that meets the need to strengthen our bilateral relationship. And I think personally, and our faction also has to support such a treaty. It's for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u126	Basil Nadrag. None. Vladimir Yavorowski, please, then John the Rabbit – no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski. No questions asked. It's a very nice little country, something like our half-area needs to be ratified. And my colleague Kendiser and I were wondering if there was anything I could do to ask him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u128	Please, the microphone, Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u129	Check the card. Your microphone's not on. Card set is invalid. Now it's all right, please. Please install a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u130	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. I really wanted to ask my co-reporter a question about San Marino, the standard of living, and so on. I can't do a second time, San Marino, where there's never been Soviet power, there's no Communist party today, and there's no way that the standard of living is that high, despite the fact that there were no factors. That's a mystery. A question, as one man put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u131	Colleagues, may I have your attention? Yuri Solomatin will then answer that question. We'll be done in a minute. That was a reference to. I'm sorry, it was Oleg Grachev's. He'll answer. Ivan Hare, Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u132	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. I'd like us to think about the framework agreement that this agreement is for us to understand that every country is important to us. Yeah, I can tell you some data today. There the population is slightly less than 28 000 in our country, and the area is 61 square kilometers. But today this country is important in terms of tourism. I think not only Ukrainians will be coming here as tourists, but soon, if we're certain of conditions, the citizens of this country will be coming here. And I also wanted to emphasize that this country is important in terms of running the number one competition and if we're going to be able to participate in these competitions, then we're actually going to need it, of course, to ratify it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u133	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, San Marino is a small country, but economic cooperation is large and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. I think that today the Supreme Council is substantially implementing Ukraine in the way of international cooperation and in the way of raising it to the level of international standards. I think we're doing a good job today. Now, about Kendzior's question, he said why there was such a high standard of living in San Marino, there was no company, there was no revolution, there was no such thing. Or is it because it wasn't there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u135	The chairman of the committee, there was a question and there was no answer. Oleg Grachev, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Kenzor and Cherniak. Helpful. San Marino has a San Marino company and has a population of almost 0.5 percent. That was two years ago when I met personally with the Secretary-General of the San Marino Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, please mobilize for the vote. There is a motion for a committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on Trade and Economic Cooperation. Registration No. 0289. Please vote. [[13:41:26]] For 312 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on Ratification between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Gambia on Trade and Economic Cooperation is being announced for consideration. This is a similar document. Why don't we vote now if there's no warning? I am voting on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Gambia on Trade-Economic Cooperation, Registration No. 0298. Please vote. [[13:42:21]] For 307 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on mutual protection of State secrets is being announced for consideration. Shall we vote, no warnings? I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the approval of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus on mutual protection of State secrets, registration number 0299. Please vote. [[13:43:08]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! So let's look at the issues in the agro-industrial sphere. I'd like us to work quickly, continue our work for 15 minutes. The draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Excise Assembly is being announced for consideration. [[concerning fuel for agricultural producers]] Oleg Yuhnowski, please. Anatoly Seminoga from the committee will be. Very briefly, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u138	Thank you. Oleg Yuhnowski, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The draft law, registration No. 8088, amending article 5 of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Excise Collection, has been developed with a view to overcoming the crisis in agriculture as a result of the increase in prices for oil products and the periodic artificial creation of fuel deficits in the domestic market during periods of preparation and implementation of integrated agricultural work. During 2005, wholesale prices rose from 2,850 dollars to 3,600 dollars. This increase has resulted in additional costs for agricultural production, catastrophic washing of circulation costs, and a substantial increase in agricultural value. For comparison. In 2003, the cost of products used by agricultural producers for the production of plant production was 1.6 billion. That's right. And their share of the value of plant production is 15 percent. In 2004, the cost of consumed petroleum products was 2.2 billion. And that's 16.2 percent, respectively. In 2005, the expected cost of oil products consumed for plant production was 4.3 billion. The amount of money, and their share in the cost structure, will increase to 28 percent. Further increases in oil prices can lead to a loss of competitiveness in domestic agriculture, not only in the external market but also in the internal market. The proposed draft Law amending article five of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Excise Assembly provides for the establishment of an order according to which diesel fuel and gasoline A-76, which will be implemented exclusively for agricultural purposes, are exempt from the payment of excise duty. Such order creates a level playing field for oil companies regardless of their form of ownership and management and stimulates the release of fuel for the village’s needs at underpriced prices. The Office of the Ministers of the Ukraine sets up the scope and control of the oil products in question for agricultural producers. The implementation of the project will result in a reduction in revenue from the excise collection to the State budget of 60 million dollars. Euro. However, the amount will be compensated by the increase in agricultural production and food production, the improvement in the financial and economic situation of agricultural enterprises, the creation of additional jobs, the increase in social funds. By working on the draft Law, I have carefully studied the world’s experience and will note that such practices exist in many developed countries of the world, including the European Union. Please support the draft Law amending article five of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u139	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga will be speaking from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The bill that is under consideration today proposes to exempt the excise duty collection A-76 motor gasoline and diesel fuel that is supplied to agricultural producers. The implementation of oil products without the payment of excise duty to the village's needs only for spring-field work will result in the loss of more than 350 million dollars in budget. The bill does not provide for sources of budget losses. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance does not support the bill. The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of 10 October 2005 made comments on the above-mentioned bill. National members of the committee believe that there is a problem in providing oil products to agricultural producers. But the mechanism proposed by the bill is ineffective, which will lead to corruption, which will not lead to fuel. manufacturers. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on October 17 discussed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u141	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, will we discuss whether we will be determined about the decision? No, now. Maybe we've got a check-in. Maybe that's how I'll ask you. We have seven national deputies. If they'd explained each one of their thesis in a minute, and then we would have moved on to the subject. No objections? So your unanimity support is. Yuri Solomatin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to some of the little things, because such little things are paved the way to hell. First of all, there is no clear definition of who can be counted as an agricultural producer. Such a concept, clearly defined, does not exist legally irreprehensible. So they're going to be drawn to these benefits by a lot of different structures. The other one. These structures get this fuel, but they're going to use it uncontrolledly and even resell it. We know how much oil and gas in Ukraine are willing to resell abroad. That's another question. And the third question is that there's no conclusion from Minfin that we're losing and that we're going to get a benefit from this bill. And I'd like to know from Minfin what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u143	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Microphone, please. Mikhail Vasilovich, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u144	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, surely there are some remarks regarding this bill. But on the first reading, the faction of the Socialist Party will support it. Because, of course, this bill, after its adoption as a law, needs to be clearly defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, who is still referring to the category of farmers, although we know, according to the Law on Agriculture, who is today a producer of agriculture. But what is needed today is, of course, that law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u145	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, of course, the topic that is being discussed today is important enough because the village and the oil products have been, will eat and will be. That is why, of course, we must decide how our village will be equipped with fuel, oil and lubricants. The only question that arises when we discuss the subject is why the law does not define what an agricultural producer is. I think that might be a problem. It is therefore thought that this topic must be worked out in order to avoid all kinds of abuse. Because as many agricultural firms as we have on paper with the stamps of one director and one chief accountant, there's no one else. It is therefore thought that, first of all, when it comes to the fact that the village must have petroleum products, we must clearly understand this: there must be no reason for abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u147	Ratushny, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, respected farmers! As long as I'm in these walls, I always remember that under the cry “The village is dying!” they claim before the sower and before the harvest that we should help the farmer. Usually, this aid does not reach the producer. What's proposed is, in fact, one of the ways that was said by the committee, possible corruption. We remember how we had already promised the fuel of a different color. That is, the mechanisms proposed in the bill do not provide for abuse. There'll be no budget, I'm sure it won't reach the fuel, diesel and A-76, it won't reach the power plant. Therefore, the Ukrainian People's Party, our faction can only vote if the second reading is clearly designed to avoid the abuse and use of low fuel for corrupt and speculative purposes. This is not what it's supposed to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u149	Mikola Noshchenko, faction “Go, Ukraine!” please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u150	Nightshenko Mikola, 160th constituency, Sumstina, Volodymira Litvina People's Block. If you take the resources and resources of Ukraine, it is sufficient for both the population, the benefit category, and the producer. But we must have the political will to do so. The mechanism in what way? Finding that farmer how he can use it is a matter of technology. This bill does not provide for this. He envisions a reduction in the excise congregation to questionable schemes that will lead, first of all, to a lack of budgeting, by the way, of the Ministry of Finance’s conclusions on the matter, as well as the use of these schemes by all economic operators. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u151	Mikola Anitchuk. None. Vladimir Cherniak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u152	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no clearly positive and unequivocally negative decisions in economic policy. Well, I would emphasize the first, there are no definitely positive decisions, there's always a certain balance of positive and negative. It's precisely the art of economic politics that is to balance and determine: what's more. I have doubts as to the correctness of the conclusion of the committee. There is a problem in providing agriculture with oil products, and it needs to be addressed. In this case, it's the first reading, conceptually. I think we can back it up. But in the process of preparing for second reading, two questions need to be clearly identified. First of all, what's a power plant? And secondly, to work the mechanism in the process of preparing for second reading the mechanism of use of naphthapro.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u153	For the reasons of the vote, Yavorowski, please. Then the government is very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this is a typical bill that can be written in red letters: “Warning, Corruption!” Let's say, first of all, we've already said here that no ounces of gasoline will ever reach the farmer. It's going to flow around here in Kiev, at the district level, maybe something's going to drip into the area. What's his goal? It's the same thing as costing the product. All right, let's just say that this gasoline is going to flow a little bit to the farmer. Anyway, the same farmer is going to sell the raw material. Then there'll be goods from this raw material. Which will go to market. The price is going to come back, so on a few chains, someone's going to take advantage of it. There is no way to vote for this bill. Well, it just doesn't. I don't see what to get into so you can press the "for" button.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u155	Yes, please, the government. One moment, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u156	We've got it right here. State tax, deputy head Operanko Grigory Mikolayovich. This is the situation that we have different views in the government, and I'd like to remind you of the situation that happened when there was an exemption from excise duty, coffee, vodka that went through and where these costs remained. They stayed in business activities. Now I want to remind you of who is the payer of the excise congregation. There are oil refineries and oil traders -- these are large enterprises, large supplies to the farmer will be provided by an intermediary who, in fact, will not be caught there, and no law enforcement agency is immune from the tracking, origin and use of this oil product. That's the first one. The other one. You know, we can do that, let's not get all honest, most honest, but whoever forbids the same farmer and the pseudo producer to trade that gasoline and resell it, and it's going to go to the gas station and it's already going to cost the price of the market price. And what it will be. I'm asking you to support the decision of the profile committee in part not to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u157	Please, Ministry of Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u158	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Dimczak Ivan Mikitovich. We say that there is such an Indian saying: “Under the light of the same lamp one does good, the other does bad.” We're saying that the European principle should go to us on agriculture, this year the agrarian complex will spend 5 billion dollars on fuel, which is more than 2.6 versus last year. This entire grant received from the 1.7 - billion - dollar program only consumes fuel. This is the principle that I understand that the law cannot spell everything out. And you don't have to, I'm telling you the principle, the European principle for everyone who has land to get fuel from the calculation of the norm, let's say it's 50-70 liters of solar power. They get, they have 100 hectares of land, they get 7 tons of solar power. He gets this fuel at a tax price. And it all starts from the ground, and then, if there's an operator in the area that knows what to put in the area of 5,000 tons of solar, it puts it and takes its delivery costs, and the rest is the base price one. This is a normal law, which is in Europe, which is in many countries around the world. This is normal per hectare, and the norm, it says in the law, is that the Cabinet of Ministers has ordered the supply of motorized petrol to farmers in Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers. A list of enterprises will be determined, and those who have land will be identified. I'm asking the MPs, let's support it. Let us start with something, not promises, but concrete steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u159	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u160	Support, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u161	Nightstand, please, microphone. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u162	Nightshenko Mikola, 160 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina People's Block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a request for such a procedure. It has just been said in the report that there are two opinions in the government. In what way, then, will the government consider it after we accept it in the first reading? What decision will he make? I would like to put it to a vote, allow the government to determine its position, opinion and exit this room with a concrete expectation that it will lose its budget, that the farmer will receive, and what will Ukraine's economy in general gain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, since we have differences in the hall here, let's find them. We'll make the decision, we'll make the decision, and then we'll work together. Well, the cloud, please, the microphone. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u164	Stepan Cloud, Ukrainian National Party Ladies and gentlemen, since the government doesn't have one opinion, this is totally insane, I'm proposing to withdraw this bill today, to return to the government, let the government determine, and if at all, this is clearly, frankly, a boldly corrupt bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Let's look at the subject of adoption as a basis, and then we'll go on to determine what our final decision is, because our perspectives are different. Let us listen to those who offer to accept. There is a motion for a vote to be adopted on the basis of the draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on excise duty assembly for fuel for farmers. Registration 8088. Please vote. [[14:02:20]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communists – 55, “Regions of Ukraine” – 24, The People's Party – 41, “Our Ukraine” – 4, Block Timoshenko – 7, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 14, SDPU(o) – 0, “One Ukraine” – 4, “Reforms and Order” – 0, SPTU – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 10. Who, in order to return to the draft Law, registration No. 8088, please vote. The proposal was made, and I have to respond. [[14:03:16]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Please make an offer, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem and it needs to be solved. In fact, around the world, it is handled in this way, but we are, in fact, likely to be seriously abused. There is an offer, in this connection, to re-read and let the government agree: Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Finance. Let the mechanisms work and then we'll look at it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u167	I propose to re-read the draft Act amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the Excise Assembly. [[concerning fuel for agricultural producers]] Let's do it again. [[14:04:32]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Agricultural Resources for Petroleum Products, registration number 7431, is being announced for consideration. Rudzkov's reporter. Vladimir Lechchenko will report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The provision of oil is one of the more painful problems faced by the Ukrainian village every year. We've analyzed this situation a lot and we've suggested that the main focus should be on the oil products produced from Ukrainian oil and oil condensate. Ukraine produces 3 million tons of oil and 1 million tons of condensate. Agriculture requires a little more than 700 tons of oil. We offer oil and gas condensate, which is produced in Ukrainian enterprises, where the state has a share of more than 50 percent, i.e. it controls these enterprises, to send the Cabinet of Ministers for processing in Ukrainian oil refineries so that this product is not exported. Oh, that's different. The diesel fuel produced from the oil products listed should be delivered exclusively to agricultural producers at prices whose limit is set by the Cabinet of Ministers or by an authority authorized by it. This practice, by the way, exists in some other European countries, where national oil products and their products at their own cost plus a certain percentage of profitability are sent to provide agriculture. Even such oil products in France are dyed with appropriate paint to avoid speculation in the implementation of them, let's say, for other consumer categories. Such a program will provide a stable amount of diesel at the price of two bracelets, two zeros, and five for the Ukrainian agricultural consumer. At such stable prices for diesel, I think agriculture will always be profitable and rise from its knees. The same situation today. When we are tied to the world price and actually make our agriculture uncompetitive, it is not from the point of view of our position. The factions of socialists are smart. We have to use national advantages to make our agriculture competitive. Thank you. If there are any questions, I am ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u169	There are questions, but there is another procedure. Please, Leschenko Vladimir of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u170	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations reviewed the draft Law on Resources for Agriculture by Petroleum Products, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Rudzkowski. The bill is aimed at protecting the economic interests of domestic agricultural producers and creating conditions for their sustainable supply of petroleum products. The committee supports the bill. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, also believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on a basis. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted as a basis for the first reading. And Adam Ivanovich, in view of the few minutes left, the fact is that Vladimir Mikhajlovich did not give me the word out of procedure, and I remind you yesterday that the outbreak of chicken flu has already been recorded 10 kilometers from the border of Ukraine, and the meat of chicken and processed products are both legal and smuggled. So I introduced draft Law No. 8290, and I propose that I put it into the agenda immediately and vote to temporarily stop the importation of bird meat and processed products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u171	Let's make a decision to the committee on this. There will be meetings today. There'll be a committee decision. We'll be able to get back to him tomorrow. Yes, honorary colleagues, summary procedure: 2 in, 2 in, against. Shall we discuss or vote? Vote. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Agricultural Resources for Petroleum Products. Registration number 7431. [[14:10:25]] For-125 Yes, write your motives down. Three minutes. For reasons like that, these were written down for discussion, this is another procedure already. Yes, please, Buttercup. Korsak's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u172	Dear Ukrainian national deputies, of course, you all know well that the agricultural sector and especially agriculture are in an extremely difficult, crisis-stricken state. It is necessary not to announce the following year as the Year of Village and Agriculture, but to help the village immediately in order to get it out of the crisis. Now! So I'm still asking the people's deputies, think carefully about what needs to be done to help the village, and once again, Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to go back to the vote and vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u173	Please, Alexy Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u174	Hell of a word, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u175	Please, it's Alexander Pecklusenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u176	Pecklusenko, “Region” faction, Zaporozhye region. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the village. We have prepared this package of bills with you in the hope that we will correct the tragic situation in the country. Adam Ivanovich, there are no national deputies in the hall. We jeopardize everything the Supreme Council has done. That's why I'm suggesting, given that we won't be able to consider the whole package in time, the whole package will be moved to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u177	The MPs are not enough, but the "Regions" faction is almost in full stock and it gave 23 for, and 24 for "against". So work with the faction. Please, Bandur Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, the law is certainly important, but it has a number of legal irregularities. In the event of its adoption, it is established that it is impossible for an entity to choose its own counterparties to engage in entrepreneurial activities contrary to article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's the first one. The following terminology is introduced: “special forms of production, use and implementation of petroleum products produced from their own production”. What is this "special order of production," who will set them up, and who will they serve? The concept of an agricultural producer. That's the third one. It's different. It is also a grandmother who grows onions for twenty hundred, and a magnate that has five or ten thousand acres [5,000 ha] of land. And lastly, to submit to the government a bill that comes out of this law. Again, well, it's totally ridiculous if we take it. You can't make laws like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u179	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u180	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio audiences, and respected villagers! We must, the faction of socialists, lead to your knowledge of what factions and how the peasants supported these two bills, because sometimes we have a very interesting name, “Parties”, and when it comes to supporting their peasant, they always find arguments. And what are the arguments? We have elected Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, President of Ukraine, who voted in favour of the people of Ukraine, we have a government that has been entrusted with the principles of the “Power of the People” Coalition. So tell me, what kind of corruption are we still talking about in the state? So we'll never get over it, so those who are sitting in a government bed, except for the APC Ministry, are not the people we trust. This is a disgrace to all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-19-m0.u181	You have to selectively, fairly scrupulously create coalitions, then there will be no charges against each other. Yes, dear colleagues, there were no suggestions, except that tomorrow we would continue to consider issues related to the village tomorrow. Tomorrow, the questions that today concerned the agricultural sector and were not considered will be considered after the second reading. Yes, dear colleagues, before I say goodbye, I want to make another announcement. Please go to the registration tables now and get another table, the final version of the draft State Budget Act, which we will consider with you. Yes, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. At 3 p.m., we're working in factions. We'll start our work tomorrow, as usual, at 10 a.m.
