ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:09]] There were 421 members of the National Assembly Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich, into the House of Deputies "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Andresuk Boris Pavlovich into the National Party. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, let me announce. Well, there'll be performances. Microphone, please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u2	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich! From all regions, Ukrainian citizens are asked to announce, after all, that the Supreme Council has brought to justice the national MPs who are in executive power. You can inform all the national MPs who wrote the application you filed in court. It is said that in some cases the Supreme Council did not refer to the court for the removal of parliamentary powers in relation to the fact that they went to executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u3	I ask that the Secretariat prepare written information and distribute it to the National Deputies. And tomorrow we're going to be discussing the termination of the powers of the people's deputies and from the committee, I think we're going to get that kind of information. Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to the question-and-questions announcement. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Leonidas CERNOVECH to the President of Ukraine on the illegal construction of a residential and office-trade complex on the street of the Great Zitomirsk in Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:02]] For-54 Request not supported. Jury SOLOMATANA to the President of Ukraine regarding the non - governmental position of some officials of the old and new Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in connection with the two - year sabotage of sending them to the Council of Europe a letter of ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:43]] For-141 Request not supported. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 52, "Ukraine regions" - 15, People's Party - 6, SPU - 18, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 2, NPP - 0, SDPU - 10, "The only Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, SPTU - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Union" - 3, "The Postfaction - 5. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the President of Ukraine on the assignment of Rybosapko as head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Lviv Railway. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:36]] For 169 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Oleg Gracheva to the President of Ukraine on the 1+1 TV channel for 100 days of new power. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Oleg Grachev's request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:25]] For 109 Request not supported. WOJUŠA to the President of Ukraine on the intention of initiating a referendum on the changes already adopted to the Constitution of Ukraine and on the responsibilities of the President as a guarantor of the Constitution. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:58]] For-129 Request not supported. JOURIA BOYCA to the President of Ukraine for the creation in Kiev of a representative of the Constantinople Church, the Court of the Space Patriarch. I'm voting on support for the request. [[10:09:27]] Z-87 Request not supported. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine on the granting of Ukrainian citizenship and security assurances to the native of the Cherkas region of Volodymyr Rezun. [[Victor Sovorova]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:58]] For-86 Request not supported. Mr. Oleg KARJOWA and Mr. Paul Sulkovski to the President of Ukraine for a violation of the law in the appointment of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Peter Prashenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:26]] For a-117. Request not supported. Stepan GAVRISHA to the President of Ukraine on the rightfulness of changing the size of the salaries of teaching staff, educational institutions and scientific institutions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:53]] For-103 Request not supported. Sergey LARINA and Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI to the President of Ukraine for the prosecution of law enforcement lawyers who defend the interests of the head of the Donetsk District Council, the head of the Donetsk District Department of the Boris Kolesnikov Party, their families and colleagues of the White Swan Trade Center. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:32]] For-73 Request not supported. Ravila SAFIULLIN and Oleg KARJOVA to the President of Ukraine on political repression against the independent television channel of the closed-circuit association “Luhansk district television radio company”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:03]] For-125 Request not supported. Alexia Korsakova and Vitalia HOMUTINIKA to the President of Ukraine regarding the reprivatisation and public deception of citizens by senior officials of the state. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:34]] For-59 Request not supported. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of official clarification on the legal grounds available for failure to comply with the decision of the Supreme Council to hold May 10, 2005, at the Supreme Council of Parliamentary Hearings. SERGEANT to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the Ukrainian computer network. Viachaslava ANISIMOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the timely termination of the powers of the Dniprodjna city council in connection with the systematic adoption of decisions that conflict with Ukrainian legislation. Michael DOBKINA to the Prime Minister on the extent of assistance to children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Oleg YUCHNOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. Michael BAUER to the Prime Minister for the compensation of capital investments in gasification of sociocultural objects by the agricultural cooperative Suvorov Novoseltsky region of the Cherniewice region. Vassila ADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the financial support of agricultural enterprises. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the use of loans under the Agreement between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the issuance of State-owned land rights and for the development of the cadastre system. Bogdan Gubsky to the Prime Minister for the elimination of the discriminatory approach in the payment of daily subsistence allowance for medical personnel compared to other categories of specialists. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Security Service, on the situation surrounding the society with limited responsibility for “Lugansk Energy Union” and the possible artificial bankruptcy of the company. Michael BAUERA to the Prime Minister about the allocation of funds for the construction of the Watchtower gas pipeline, the Deep Cherniewsky region. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the transfer to the autonomous heating of socio-occupational objects in the village of Lake Zitomir. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Vladovian sugar plant of the Winnicki district. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for financing the acquisition of equipment for the Chernobyl District Medical Diagnostic Centre. [[CADDEN, BAUER, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Peter SIMONENKA and Viktor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the non-destruction and restoration of production in the Kramoshkov sugar plant of the Vinnitsk Region and for the involvement of those responsible for his inability to pay for criminal liability. Petra PISTARČUCA to the Prime Minister for the transfer to the municipal property of the Zoločov Zoločov Rural Council of the Zoločov Region of the Zoločov Region of the separate premises of the Zoločov Technical University of Lviv and its further use for school. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister for Education and Science for the Violations of the Constitution and Labour Law, the political pressure and the forced writing of applications for the dismissal of employees of all departments and the administrations of the Rijdný Rajdževní, the directors of the public educational institutions of the area by the newly appointed head of the Rivensk Reich administration, Peter Polishchuk. Michael POLENCHIĆI to the Prime Minister for a formal review by some former and current ministers of parliamentary inquiries and appeals about the rebuilding of a school that was burned down. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister about budgeting for government programs for young people. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister regarding the request of the Volin District Council for unwarrantedly low purchase prices for milk set by monopolistic processing enterprises. Ms. Aleksandra VASILEVA to the Prime Minister for the review of the living minimum standards, which is included in the allocation of housing subsidies. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the establishment of the state of citizenship of Mikola Corpan, who is practicing abroad as a physician of the Austrian private clinic Rudolfinerhaus, under the auspices of the personal physician of the President of Ukraine on the issue of dioxin poisoning during the 2004 electoral campaign. Levka LUKJANENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the unlawful transfer of the organs of the holdingmain Foundation to a lease with the further privatisation of the premises of residential units on the street of Čkalova in Hmeljnickýk. Vitalia MOYCA to the Prime Minister on the liquidation of indebtedness to specialized Hmělní region motor vehicles. MICILI RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister on the settlement of the issues of the implementation of the confiscated vehicle. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister on the status of implementation of Cabinet Order No.182 of 18 February 2004 concerning the granting to government officials of a non-performing loan for housing or the acquisition of apartments or individual buildings. Vassila HARI to the Prime Minister for failure by the authorities of the State Executive Authority to implement legislation on the Committees of the Supreme Council. People of Kirichenko to the Prime Minister regarding the purpose of the possible closure of the single technology complex of the state-owned enterprise Donbasantracite. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, regarding the gross violation of the Constitution and labour law, the political pressure and investigation of the legality of the discharge of 16 health officials in the Plains region, the head of the district health department. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on providing an official explanation of the legal reasons for failure to comply with the Supreme Council Order of May 10, 2005 “Government of Ukraine Day” in the Supreme Council. Mr. Mikoli Nosenka to the Prime Minister for Tax Press concerning entrepreneurs in the Bobrovicki district of Chernigiv region. Tamara PROSKURATO the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a secondary education school in the village of Stryzhakowa Vynicka District. VITALY MOYCA to the Prime Minister on the development of wind energy. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Prime Minister for compensation to the Preščipina Association of Housing and Utilities of the Dnipropetrov region for differences in housing and utility tariffs. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation surrounding the Kirovograd Regional Ballenological Hospital. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the use of vibration dilatator in medical practice. Mr. Mikoli Nosenka to the Prime Minister for the mass violations of Ukrainian legislation in the Talalai district of Chernigiv in the rental of water, the catch of fish by illegal poaching methods and the inaction of local control bodies. RACHANS to Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, regarding the allocation of funds to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for medicines for the treatment of diabetes, oncology, tuberculosis. Tamara PROSKURATOVA to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of a public education school in the city of the Redwater region of Poltava. Mikhail POLANČIĆA to the Prime Minister for the formal examination of some former and current ministers of the parliamentary inquiry and appeals on the matter of criminality in the calculation of the private venture Mercury-Invest with the private agrarian enterprise “Fortun” of the Curtkov region of the Ternopil region for the non-delivery of mineral goods. Petra KUZYMENKA and Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Interior, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Commission of Securities and the Stock Market on gross violations of legislation and the theft of public funds in the open stockholder company Čerkasigaz. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Khrestate in the Kozelet region of Chernigiv. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Prime Minister for the violation of the requirements of environmental, land legislation and the Code of Inventory for the production of raw materials. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Communications, Minister of Justice, Attorney-General for the obstacles to the activities of the Kyiv University of Economics and Transport Technology, the arbitrary management of its assets, the restrictions on the admission of students and scientific activities, the failure of the court to enforce a decision on the work of the former Rector as a result of illegal dismissal. Alexia BABURIN to the Prime Minister, President of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat, Minister of Fuel and Energy in order to pay off the receivables of the Open Shareholder Society Science and Engineering Centre ZTZ-Service. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the Prime Minister on the abolition of the illegal decision of the Ministry of Transport, the cessation of the looting of regions, labour groups. Michael KOSIVA to the Prime Minister on the need to involve Ukrainian research institutions in the construction of an oil refinery in Ukraine. Mr. Alexander KARENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the violation of the law in force in the work of the Suma District State Administration. Mr Eugene HIRNIKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the village of Vytwicz Ivano-Frankow. Valérie Lebedius to the Prime Minister for the recalculation of the pension of a citizen named Ilchenk. Vladimir Pekhoti and Alexia Corsacova to the Prime Minister on the criteria for the selection of companies subject to reprivatisation. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister for failure by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to meet the requirements of the Nikanor-Nova mine workers in the Luhansk region. [[TURMANOV, PENCHENKO, BRONNIKOV]] Paul SULKOVSKI and Vladimir MAKEENKA to the Prime Minister on the negative consequences of the cessation of free economic zones for the economy of Ukraine and its external political image. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need to pay off the debt for the construction and installation of the educational and sports complex of the Balašov College of the Plains in 2004. Vassila Sirenka to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Maintenance Fund for the false response to a parliamentary request for violations of legislation during a commercial tender for the sale of the VAT package “Lisichansknaftorgsynthesis” and the distortion of the facts by the former Head of the Detainee Chechtev Foundation. Vitalia ŠIBKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka on the issue of giving the national MP false information and not taking action for the previous reference. Gennady RUDENKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka for failure to comply with legislation regarding the definition of a risk-oriented approach to identifying sources of danger. Ms. Mushura and Mr. Vladimir ĆENKA to Vice-Prime Minister Mikola Tomenka for the transfer of the Golden Professional List to the Ministry of Education and Science from the balance sheet of the “Association of Afghan Soldiers”. Mikhail Kosiv to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka, Minister of Culture and Arts on the crisis situation at the National Museum of Lviv. Mr. Yurya KOSTENKA to Vice-Prime Minister MikoI Tomenka for the payment of the salaries of creative employees of state electronic media. Ms. FOMENKO to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal for the purpose of preserving the Biloburakina region of the Luhansk region as an administrative and territorial unit in the process of administrative and territorial reform. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, on violations of legislation that took place in the process of restructuring the Open Shareholder Society, the “Nicopolsian South Pipe Plant”. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General for investigating the fact that there was an unjustified illegal detention and cruel beating by coworkers of the Department of Combating Organized Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the province of Kirovograd, citizen of Pavluk. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with illegal economic activity in the Herson area of society with limited responsibility of Biologist and violation of criminal and procedural legislation by the authorities of the pretrial investigation. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for a superficial trial by the judicial authorities of the Suma area of the criminal case of a citizen named Kosova. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for the comprehensive audit of the financial and economic activities of the Mikolai State Enterprise Zora-Mashproject. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General on the unbiased, biased, and superficial deliberation of a citizen’s criminal case by the judicial authorities of the district of Suma. Petra TLOČKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Lviv City Head, on the threat of the destruction of the historical memorial of the Academy House in Lviv as a result of illegal construction. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Attorney General for renting and retraining the Star Stadium in Herson. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Attorney General for improper consideration of the appeal of citizens by the City Council and the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv Region. Jaroslav SUCHI to the Attorney General on violations by the prosecutor of the Zaporozhye area of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. MIKOLI SIDORENKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of officials of the Darnicki District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev regarding the investigation of the hooligan attack by a group of persons causing serious bodily harm and the prosecution of those guilty of criminal responsibility. MICILI KRAVZENKA to the Attorney General for the verification of the activities of the Redoliman City Head of the Donetsk Region. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney-General on the responsibility of the Attorney-General for the delay in taking measures to end lawlessness, acquittal, political persecution and violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens by members of the law enforcement agencies of the Kyrovograd region, and the criminal responsibility of the employees of the Office for Combating Organized Crime, which is responsible for the commission of the crime, the brutal beating of the inhabitants of the Kyrograd Pavluka and Kovalova. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Attorney General for the cessation of illegal acts that led to the capture of power in the village of Solomon’s Uzhgrad district of Zakarpat. Anatolia MATIWIENKA to the Attorney General for the criminal offence against the employees of the hospital of Mikolayeva for the fact that Rakomin had died. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General on the illegal actions of the Lutsky City Head and the city's procurator concerning the illegal alienation of property in association with the limited liability of Lutkagroud. Mr. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice, for gross violations of legislation regarding the conditions and salaries of enterprises with foreign investment and the private sector. Anatoly MATVIENKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of the Office of the Prosecutor and the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the investigation of criminal cases and the search for a Ukrainian citizen who is accused of fraud, forgery of documents and escape from custody. Vladimir LESCHENKA to the Attorney General for the review of claims regarding the kidnapping of Lenin’s monument from the central square of the city of Koryukowka of Chernigiv region. Alexander MOROZA and John BOKHO to the Attorney-General for the improper response of the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office to the request of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of privatization of the need to address violations of the housing rights of residents of the open Albatros Association of Albatros of the City of Odessa. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General on violations of legislation during the resolution of the Open Shareholders Association “Nicopolska Southern Pipe Plant”. VITALIA ŠIBKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights of private shareholders of the Univermag Raduga company of Dniprodžinska by a member of the family of the prosecutor. Joseph WINSKI AND WOLodyMIR GOSHOVSKI to the Attorney-General on violations of legislation in the process of privatising the Society with a limited responsibility “Mikolaiev Clay Plant”. Valeria Assadchev to the Attorney General on violations of regulations, regulations, and legislation in the construction of land in Kiev. Victor Antemuka and Taras ČERNOVOL to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the Investigation of the Operations of the General Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defence. Victor TURMANOVA and Vasil GORBAL to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service, Prime Minister on the situation in the gas market and the lack of proper control of the government at prices for the population. Oleg TAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Security Service for the Offence of Criminality in connection with the State's betrayal and violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, conducted by the leader of the Progressive Socialist Party of Ukraine, Vitrenko and other participants in a rally held on 19 April 2005 in Simferopol, dedicated to the 222nd anniversary of the manifesto “On the inclusion of the island of Taman and the Crimea peninsula in the Russian Empire”. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney - General for the annulment of the illegal decision of the Dniprodjn city council to distinguish between the consecutive elections of the Dniprodjn city head. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the information provided by the National MP, Grigorovich, concerning the head of the Donetsk District Council. [[LARIN, SHOOTY, PRISON]] Leonida GRAČ to the Attorney General on the fact that land was being seized in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by Crimea Tatars, which led to the murder of a man. MICILI KULČINSKI to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the laws of the Poltav Mesquikonkom in the distribution of housing to former military personnel. Leonida KADENUKA to the Attorney General for a groundless criminal offence against the Rector of the Bukovin Financial Academy, Vladimir Predek. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General on the unsatisfactory course of criminal investigation and the lack of control of the Odessa District Attorney’s Office over the decision-making process. Alexander STANDING with the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for the delay of the investigation and for the prosecution of Anatoly Diduch. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Attorney General on the illegal alienation of State property in favour of the closed-circuit airline Aeroworld in Borispol Airport. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for ignoring the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage by the Hersonian authorities. A group of national deputies to the Attorney-General on the inappropriate response to fraud and property rights issues committed by a group of persons regarding the architect of the Asses and the Art Deco enterprise. [[BLOODY, PASSIAN, AND OTHERS. Total 7 deputies]] EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General on the verification of the embezzlement of the assets of the open shareholders association “Bolekhiv Forest Union” in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Valeria GORBATOVA to the Attorney General on corrupt actions at the Feodosian Power Liaison Centre No. 3. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA and Alejandro VASILEVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the criminal activities of officials in the Zakarpat region. Victor TURMANOVA to the Attorney-General for the criminal offence against the former Director-General of the State-owned company Lviv-Ugil Shaitana. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General regarding the unlawful actions of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Bus Region regarding the head of the Novosilkov Rural Council, who is unjustifiably involved in criminal liability and inaction of the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the Lviv Region, which does not respond to violations of legislation. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Secretary of State for information on the effectiveness of spending public funds abroad by the President of Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the Secretary of State, Prime Minister, concerning the forced eviction of the Ministry of Health from occupied premises and certain circumstances of the State Administration. [[BACHTEIVA, MATHWICHUK, STATE]] ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Secretary of State regarding the legality of the transfer of the house to the State’s management of the Kyivvinvestbud business. THE Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Moldova’s border guards in Dniprovsky GAES, and this led to the capture of part of the territory of Ukraine. THE Minister of Health, Youth and Sports for the acquisition of a special wheelchair for a four - year - old disabled resident of the village of Strbezh of the Red Army district of Žitomir. Oleg PETROVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for failure to perform duties as head of the City Department of Internal Affairs in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnický Belaus. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Ministry of Defence concerning the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Poltava housing and social infrastructure facilities of Military City No.38. Oleg BILORUS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the Recalculation of Pensions to Ukrainian Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. BORISA TO THE DEFINITIVES of the Ministry of Defense regarding the reasons and circumstances for the chemical poisoning of the former military officer Panasuk. Vassila ONOPENKA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Head of the Kyiv District Government Administration, State Committee of Forestry on the Rightfulness of Use of Land Areas of the Forest Fund in the village of Vita Postova Kyiv region. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison on the need for telephone calls to the village of Kovalin Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district of Kiev. BORISS INSPECTION to the Ministry of Health for the annulment of Decree No. 7 of December 10, 1998, on State Sanitation and Standards of Visual Display Terminals. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the illegal actions of law enforcement officials, prosecutors and the court. BORISS INSPECTION to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the elimination of a car parking at the Premier Palace Hotel in Kiev. Vassil SPAK to the Minister of Finance, Head of State Tax Administration on the Legality of Taxation by Added Cost of Licensing Payment to Licensing for Transferred to Licensing Technology under a Financial Licensing Contract. [[rewards]] SUNCHENKA to the Minister of Justice regarding the sign of corruption in the activities of officials of the executive service of the Dnipropetrov region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the criminal investigation of a citizen of Jezhakowski. Andrija SKILLY to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the position of the General Consulate of the Russian Federation in Lviv, just a few metres from the building of the Western Frontier Army of Ukraine. Alexander EDINA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on a crisis situation in the coal enterprises of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Health for the replacement of Diabetics in the city of Konotap in the Suma region of insulin. LUKYANENKA to the Minister of Justice on the grounds of nonapplication by the Hmelnicki City Department of the State Executive Service, compensation for the victims of the Great War of the costs of the court’s decision. GEORGIA PONOMARENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the enforcement of the “Straightway” of business managers to conclude agreements on the provision of advertising services. Vassila ONOPENCA to the Ministry of Health regarding the non-closure of the Kyiv City Rehabilitation Centre for Neuroinfections. Anatolysa OF DOMANS to the Ministry of Health regarding delays in the purchase of growth hormones for sick children. Ms Sergia CHICHANOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the obstacles to the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection in Sevastopol. MIKOLI SOLOŠENKA to the Minister of Justice regarding the execution of the decision of the Novomoskov City Court of the Dnipropetrov region. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for Recalculation of Pensions to participants in the liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of the right to receive pensions and social services of a military pensioner in the city of Kirovgrad. Valery MISHOURA and Volodymira ĆENKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the allocation of funds for the repair of the teaching corps at the Goldotonian Professional List of the Cherkas region. Anatolia HIRSCHFELDA to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of medical equipment to the city hospital in Kharkiv district. To the Minister of Defence, Vladimir YAVORIYSKO, for the delay in allocating funds for the gasification of the military town in the village of Vola-Vysocka of the region of Lviv, which makes it impossible to provide gas to the rural community. MICHELLA to the Minister for Agricultural Policy for Deficiency in Provoking Financial Indicators to Regions and Funding for Agricultural Producer Support. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Ministry of Health concerning the strengthening of the material and technical base of the Calancey Central District Hospital in the Herson region. Mr Leonida ISAYEVA and Mr Mikoli Komara to the National Council for Human Rights, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Head of the National Association of Journalists, acting as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information on Political Repression against the Independent Television Channel of the closed-circuit society “Lugansk Regional Television Company”. Petra TLOČKA to the Head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for the support and protection of the Preyaslav-Hmělnické Municipal Authority. THE Black Leonidas to the Head of the Security Service regarding the situation of the persecution of Georgia Gongadze by the Ukrainian Security Service. Ivana HERASIMOVA to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market on violations of the Ukrainian Act “For Economic Societies” which were allowed during the emission of shares of the Kiiv plant “Elekon”. The OBJECT Jury to the Kiev City Head on the provision of information to voters on the implementation of the “Together with the Mayor” public initiative. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the protection of the interests of the Kostopil Army’s labour force. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Kiev City Head on the provision of information on the location, order of rent of premises that are located in the municipal property of the city community and are provided for the use of the urban and district headquarters of the Labour Ukraine Party, SDPU, “Oneness”. John BOKHO to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the status of the creation of a single system of state registration of land, immovable property and rights in the form of a State’s land cadastre. THE OBJECT Jury to the Kiev City Head regarding the lack of a proper response from officials to the housing issue of the disabled person of the Great Homeland War, a participant in the liberation of the city of Kiev by a citizen of John Pauline. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Head of Public Administration on possible violations of the housing issues of the Feofania clinic’s staff. FIXA to the Head of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, Head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy on the Elimination of Gross Violations of the Requirements of Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Advertising by UT-1, “Era”, “5 Channel”. Michaela RODIONOVA to the Head of the Kyiv State Administration for the construction of a 25-story building with a parking lot on the scene of a children's playground on Stalski Street. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources in connection with the violations of land law by the Krasnyan Rural Council of the Tarutin district of Odessa. The Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, the Chief Justice of the High Council of Justice, is headed by the Supreme Court of Justice as regards the situation that took place in the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal. Victor TURMANOVA and Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister for the investigation of the actions of officials of the Cabinet of Ministers for the illegal transfer of work day from 10 to 14 May, which led to massive violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens and to the breakup of Government and parliamentary hearings. Mr. Mikoli Komara and Mr. George Skudar to the head of the Supreme Court on the violation by the citizens of Victor Yushchenk and Svetoslav Piscot of actual legislation. RAISES OF THE wealthier to the head of the Security Service regarding the ignoring of a civil servant’s coworkers ’ claim to crime. Stepan HMARA to Kiev City Head, Attorney General on lawlessness in the municipal enterprise “Editing the newspaper “Evening Kiev” and restoring the release of the newspaper “Fazenda” and the renewal of its employees. Yurya BOJKA to the Kiev City Head for the financial and moral support of the capital’s children’s social organizations as one of the pillars of national patriotic education for young people. Jury CARMAZIN to the head of the Supreme Court, a member of the High Council of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney-General for the systematic violation of the law of the Equality City Court of the Plains, as a result of the unjustified burden of criminal and civil proceedings, the distortion of statistical reporting, the official falsification and the obstruction of the work of the court. To the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Vladimir YAVORIYSKA, a newspaper entitled “The Opposition. The Ukrainian Parliament” whose output does not include the founder, editor, printery and other information provided by the legislation, and the only publication with the author's description belongs to the Moscow journalist. [[Russian]] Alexander GOLUBA and Andrija POLIETA to the Kiev City Head, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the financing of youth and children’s organizations in Kiev. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the head of the Kiev State Administration for violations in the building of a university town on Lomonosov Street in Kiev. Groups of national deputies to the head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs on the threat of international conflict in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[SAFIULIN, BACHTIEVA, KING]] Ms. FOMENKO to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources on the delay in financing measures to protect rural areas and agricultural arrangements against the harmful effects of waters in the Lugansk region and in the region of New York. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt repayment in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt under article 57 of the Education Act of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of providing the work of the state-owned company Eastern Mining and Enriching. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the failure of prosecutors to implement article 36-1 of the Pro-Procuratorship Act on representation in court of whores with disabilities, the use of measures to enforce the court's decision to pay regressive payments to DHC victims of Pavlogradugil and the unlawful actions of the Pavlovgrad City Prosecutor's Office of the Dnipropetrov region. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Minister of Health, on the allocation of funds to support the vitality of Tachiv’s central district hospital, repair of the hull, offices, and relocation of parts of the premises to other facilities in connection with their emergency. Mikola DARNIKA and Mikirko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the funds, the implementation and relevance of the innovation project, the development and production of new autonomous integrated power supply systems using solar power systems, wind installations and energy reservoirs. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on gross violations of the requirements of the Ukrainian State Tax Law, the orders of the DPA of Ukraine to verify the economic activities of TZO Autoslach, the founder of the ATO "Selščenski granite career", to make threats, blackmails on the part of fellow employees of the Serbian Police Department of the Plain Region, and personally the head of the division of Dzubak Vitalija Fedorovic. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, on political pressure, violation of constitutional rights and obstacles to the economic activity of the Aberdeen private enterprise of the Rokitni district on the part of the newly appointed management of the Rokitnów regime. Paul Sulkovski to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General on political persecution, violation of the Constitution and Ukrainian laws on labour legislation - forced writing of applications for dismissal of Yarosenko Svetlana Anatoliyovna, Director of the Ddolbunov Regional Social Services Centre for the Single Unemployed Citizens of the Plain region. Paul Sulkovski to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the grave violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine "On the Work" of political persecution and forced writing of a statement of dismissal from the work of the Pozniakhivska Rajisa Vasilovna, Director of the Kostopilian Territorial Centre for the Service of Single Unemployed Citizens by the newly appointed head of the Kostopilski Paradise Administration, Jaroslav Bilik. Oleg Bilorus to the head of the Viennese District State Administration for violation of the rights of the Funeral Church of Baptist Christians evangelists. Michael Ratushnay to the minister of internal affairs on formalism when considering the appeal of the Ukrainian national deputy and the authorization to prepare an answer. a person who has been accused of unlawful acts. Thus, honourable national MPs have made 185 parliamentary inquiries. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 27, "Democratic Initiatives" - 46, "Regions of Ukraine" - 33, "SDPU" - 10, "One Ukraine" - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "The People's Party - 7, "Socialist Party - 9, "Timoshenko Block - 15, "The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 2, "The Union" - 4, "The Ukrainian People's Party - 9, "Democratic Ukraine" - 8, "The Non-Flocked - 7. It took almost 50 minutes for the request to be made. Now we're moving on to speeches from MPs and factions. I have an offer at 12 o'clock not to take a break, but to work on the fact that we're taking a lot of time here on "Rizzle." Igor Jeremiah of the faction of the People’s Party. Get ready for Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u4	Statement by the MP of the People's Party. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Many of those present in this room have been taking a course in the history of the CPD and are aware of the 17th meeting of the CPB(b) that was shot. More than a thousand delegates received and destroyed the regime in one year. We are convinced that there are no adherents in the present government to such methods of political struggle. The morality of power must first and foremost be based on the service of the law, ensuring the constitutional right of every citizen to political choice. Regrettably, these criteria are an empty sound for some newly burned state men. Naphtali Stalinska is handing over a document that was handed over to the central office of the People's Party for days by our sum of the same party. This is a directive that was sent to the district administration on 15 May by Mr. Medunica, the deputy head of the Suma Authority. The telephonegram he signed presents the task of collecting the most complete information on the leaders of the district and city centres of the People's Party during the period of time, including the requirement to provide a list of delegates to the regional party conference to be held on May 21st in Suma, identifying the location of each of them, the home address, the telephones and the other, I stress, and another, as this document says, important information about delegates. Why did you need such information to guide the area? It's not hard to guess. The tools and methods used recently by the Ukrainian authorities are well - known for their preservation. We have no doubt that in this way regional authorities, and not only in sums, want to establish total control over the activities of one of the most influential and promising political forces. In doing so, it deliberately violates the Constitution of Ukraine. As the next election approaches the Supreme Council, the temptation to use administrative resources, pressure methods, blackmail will only increase. So these facts and trends can't help but worry the faction of the People's Party. So the question is, who gave public officials the right to collect information about the assets of the People's Party and the delegates of the district conference? We address Victor Yushchenko, President of Ukraine, as the guarantor of the Constitution and the Attorney General with a strong demand to put an end to the unlawful actions of state officials. The People’s Party faction notes the right not to vote in favour of government bills until the actions of new officials are properly evaluated. Please consider this to be our official request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u5	Stepan Gavrish, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives. Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to join the People's Ukraine Party and say that not only is the pressure exerted on political organizations of society, but also on public organizations, why is the testimony given last Friday by the Association of Taxpayers of Ukraine, led by the tax administration, where the people are elected, exclusively, by representatives of one political force. At present, I would like to address you, a question that has been delegated to me by trade unions, education workers and sciences in Kiev who express deep concern, a situation that has arisen as a result of the adoption by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine of a non-conformity with the Central Committee of the Trade Union and has not been registered with the Ministry of Justice on May 5, 2005, at number 275 on the amendment to the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science order of 29.03. 2001, number 161. The point is that the Ministry of Education and Science has failed to comply with a number of decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the organization of the salaries of teachers and the increase of their official salaries. Instead, by order of 275, according to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, effective 1 April 2005, there were reduced salaries of academic and scientific staff from 8 to 17 per cent depending on the position. For example, if the rector’s official salary is currently 1,087 dollars, the number 275 of April 1 will be only 904 bracelets or 183 bracelets less. Similar decreases in salaries, wage rates are taking place proportionally in all other positions of teaching staff, educational institutions, and scientific institutions. So if the average salary of a professor's-exposure in the Russian Federation is 8,000 rubles -- that's about $300 -- in Belarus -- 600,000 Belarusian rubles -- is $350, but in Ukraine, the pay of a rector who has the perfect level of scientific and professional training is almost half as low. At the same time, heads of departments and deputy ministers of executives receive more than 2,000 dollars. Even this modest amount of funds is being reduced by the Ministry of Education and Science. In line with the public declaration and the decree of 1 April 2005 to increase the fees paid to teachers and scientists from 15 to 33 per cent of the official salary, in practice it means that the increased amount actually amounts to 0.8 to 0.7 per cent, which contradicts the President's Ten Steps Programme. This is going to have a very negative impact on the level and comfort of society, and it's going to have a major impact on science in Ukraine. On the basis of the above, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask the Ministry of Education to suspend this order, which is not even registered by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Development and introduction are also required.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u7	Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko, faction of "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u8	Gennady Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine, the National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today, May 18, it is 61 years from the date of the totalitarian regime of serious crime against the Crimean Tatar people and persons of other nationalities forcibly deported from the Crimea. In those tragic days of the early 44th year, violently, cruelly and cynically, the Crimean Tatars from children to the elderly were deported by all the people from their historic homeland. The same bitter plague of human grief soon met Bulgarians, Armenians, and Greeks living on the peninsula. Thousands of people, mostly children and the elderly, have died in the brutal conduct of these criminal acts and in the early years of survival in local populations from hunger, cold, and mass diseases. The process of returning hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars and others deported by national status coincided with the first years of the establishment of an independent Ukrainian state. In honoring the memory of the innocent victims of the deportation from the Crimea in 44th year, we now have every reason to say that it was Ukraine that spoke in a single country, a post-Radians space that declared the undeniable right of deported persons and their descendants to return to their historic residence. The 2004 presidential election changed the situation in the state. Ukraine has embarked on European development. Crimean Tatars are also active in this process. The President of Ukraine, Yushchenk, together with the Government, is developing new democratic approaches to solving political problems, including national relations. In our day, conditions are created to make the former totalitarian regime’s friendship with the nations a reality, a norm for the everyday life of society. Our nation firmly separates itself from the acts of genocide of the former totalitarian regime, criminalizing them against humanity and humanity. On the sad day of the 61st anniversary of the tragedy of deportation to Crimea, we reaffirm our principle of restoring historical justice to the Crimean Tatar people and to representatives of the national minorities returning to their homeland. We will make every effort to ensure international consolidation, mutual understanding and harmony in the Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u9	George Buiko, from the Communist Party faction of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Get ready for Larissa Polack.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u10	Georgi Bujkov, All-Ukrainian Union “Intelligence for Socialism”, Communist faction. On the eve of Victory Day, the All-Ukrainian Association “Intelligence for Socialism” held a conference at the Museum of the Great Homeland War, despite the opposition of the Ministry of Culture and Museum Directorate on the great victory, where scientists, representatives of social organizations, the MPs and all areas of Ukraine participated. On the basis of scientific conclusions, the Conference emphasized that the victory of the Soviet people was a great victory, a victory in the war that was entitled to be called the Great Homeland War, based on the length of the struggles, the number of human forces and weapons, the share of the resources used, the idea of political and moral tension, the participation of all the peoples of the USSR in the defence of their homeland, the victory that was the main factor in the outcome of the Second World War, the victory that was sought to tarnish by the use of falsification and the total disregard of scientific approaches in historical science. This is not only happening abroad, but also in Ukraine. This raises questions. Why has falsification of the truth about the Great Fatherland acquired a system-wide nature? Why is the Soviet Union being portrayed as the culprit of war? Why was the name Great Fatherland removed from Ukraine and its people removed from that sacred war? Why is the world's historical significance of victory being silenced? There are a number of other issues. Why has the National Museum of History of the Great Homeland in recent years weakened scientific work? However, the UN, its chiefs, is widely described. They are silently co-operated with the Fascists and convicted by the International Nuremberg Tribunal. Why is the Supreme Council’s right to learn in the mother tongue still valid today? Does the Charter on Languages of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not work for a year, as voted by the deputies in this room? On the basis of the situation, I ask Vladimir Mihajlovich to entrust the Committee on Defence and Veterans with further public discussion. To discuss the outcome of the work of the working group of historians at Kabmin, who propose to give UPA UPA the status of the warring party. Second. It is time to study history textbooks and bring them into line with existing legislation by clearing it off. In this regard, I am formally requesting the Minister of Education and Science, Stanislav Nikolaenko, as well as the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u11	The word is given to Larissa Polakovy, faction of "Democratic Ukraine." Get ready for Hubby.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Democratic Ukraine faction expresses its concern at the situation today between power and business. For if today's working capital is not secured by political means, it will inevitably find new forms of protection. The task of the Democratic Ukraine is to prevent the transfer of property by gang. I mean not only our faction, but also all those who profess their commitment to democracy, not in words, but in its essence. Because democracy is not the publicity of interpersonal intergovernmental divisions. Democracy is the publicity of a decision-making process. In this respect, the current power does not know the same. We have to note that today the Supreme Council has turned away from the processes that determine the current situation in Ukraine's economy. This is certainly the speculation surrounding the so-called "blacklist" of allegedly not properly privatized enterprises and generally around reprivatization. This term entered the Ukrainian lexicon for the second time, and today, like almost a hundred years ago, is characterized by factors such as total disregard for all constitutional norms, attempts to involve public authorities, including senior officials, in the illegal seizure of property, the use of slogans of the so-called revolutionary utility to cover up power schemes for the transfer of property. The nicopol ferrostow plant has become a test ball for the flow of technology of such a transfer. We thank the President of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin, for his timely, well-balanced position of coordination in those troubled days. The "Democratic Ukraine" faction, the Democratic Ukraine faction, from the very first day, had been on the Nicolaan Majdan and had the opportunity to study perfectly all aspects of the situation. Therefore, today we are asking with full authority all those who have provoked such a precedent: what was the legal basis for speculation around the existing public part of the action? Who and when raised the question of the illegality of the privatization of the IMF in 2003. Most importantly, for what purpose was this done? What kind of a list is there, is it not, that of 29 enterprises, that of the 3,000 that came in, did not enter the opal plant? What are the criteria for drawing up this list? They must be understood by both the Dnepropetrov oligarch and the bread-coffee bread and the Kirovograd pharmacist. And so far, there are no answers to these questions, any actions, in one way or another, relating to the allocation of property, constitute a gross violation of the principles of law and destabilizes enterprises by destroying the economic potential accumulated over the past few years. Is that what this is all about? Then it is necessary to define the concepts as well as the ethics of government's behaviour towards business. It cannot be stated that all populist promises of happiness will be fulfilled for all, both free and at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u13	Thank you, Larissa. The word is Bogdan Hubsky, the faction of "the only Ukraine." He'll be followed by Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today’s fuel crisis, the recent price volatility of meat products, are all episodes of Ukraine’s tough and lucrative fight for the future. In this regard, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party expresses deep concern about a situation that may soon be on the dairy market. As early as February of this year, milk factories, such as Cherkaščina, Poltavščina, Kyivščina, purchased milk from the population of 1.5, 1.7 gallons [1.5, 1.7 L] per litre. Today, Ukraine’s purchase prices are set at about 90 copies and in some regions 50 - 65 copies, but they still do not pay on time. At the same time, the retail prices, I emphasize, are now 2,4 - 2,7 dollars per liter, I’m already talking about meat, excuse me, butter and cheese, prices that have risen. So today the level of trade benefits is 300 percent. Not to mention Carl Marx, who said that at 300 percent there is no crime that he would not risk at least under the fear of the gallows. Now we have the opportunity to make sure in practice that this expression is fair. It seems that someone decided to demonstrate the lessons of 19th - century criminal capitalism in Ukraine in the twenty - first century. And this is at a time when the government is making an effort to normalize the situation in the food and oil markets, the monopolistic structures that, I emphasize, have costlessly bought milk factories, robbed an unconsciously Ukrainian peasant, deliberately underestimating the cost of its production. And the profits go, of course, to the middleman's pocket. Such a critical situation, in our view, requires immediate intervention by public authorities, both legislative and executive, both with you. This is about knowingly robbing our citizens, both farmers and those who pay for the final food. We need to stamp out, I think, a little bit of raw material from those dairy robbers, put them in the framework of laws and fair competition, punch them in the hand, prevent a criminal decline in purchase prices and get profits due to the failure of farmers to pay their hard and hard-earned costs. We ask the government to take urgent action to resolve this situation. In order to protect the interests of peasants, our faction proposes to introduce minimum purchase prices for milk during the summer period of 1.2 bracelets and 1.7 bracelets during the winter period. The maximum percentage of the trade premium is 25 percent, not 300 percent, as today. The right regulatory mechanisms are now working very well in the sugar beet market, where fixed minimum prices and peasants receive their own costs. And that today should be the general strategy of holding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u15	The word is Oleg Belarus, a faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. John Boki will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, respectable citizens! The BUT faction, the Fatherland Party and all the friendly block parties are calling out to you, "The citizens of Ukraine, unite around the President and the government for a common future. We urge the President and the government to move on to the development of Ukraine's national development strategy by 2020 and to address urgent long-term challenges. The highest imperative of the national development strategy is and will be a long-term strategy of national integrated solidarity. This is the only possible basis for uniting and uniting society for the benefit of every family, every citizen. The second strategic imperative is to ensure real economic and resource sovereignty and strong economic growth in Ukraine. The rate of growth in gross domestic product should not be lower than 12-15 percent on the basis of stimulating public enterprise and especially small and medium-sized business. Starting in 2006, we have to really move on to government development budgets as social development programmes, socio-economic development programmes. This is the only real basis for the security of our socio-economic development. We expect real results from the work and from the National Security and Defence Council, its secretariat. The responsibility of the State and the authorities in this direction is steadily increasing. We support the government's energy strategy and strategy for Ukraine's energy supply, especially the long-term strategy for diversification of energy sources. Dependence on 90 percent of a foreign country is unacceptable. Our strategic task of rebuilding and developing the coal industry on a market-based basis. This requires a long-term government program. Ukraine should extract 130 - 150 million tons of coal, and relations with neighbors would become friendly and even, and economic boundaries would work. Socialization of development is a drop in taxes on citizens to 10 percent, it's a detinization of the economy, it's a VAT waiver, and it's a way to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u17	John Boki has the word. The faction of the Socialist Party, followed by John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u18	I'm going to announce our faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Now that the fuel crisis in Ukraine is getting signs of a particular threat, the Socialist faction considers it necessary to remind us that at the right time we predicted it and called the government's attention to its danger. Regrettably, the nation’s leadership was limited to half the west. If the recent seasonal fuel crises are purely artificial and are directed to the satisfaction of the material appetites of individual leaders of the state, the present is far from artificial and has two objective elements: one of them is the failure to accept the new revolutionary power as part of its political power. Our northern neighbor, challenged by her independent policy and the desire to integrate into European structures, has openly refused to engage in constructive cooperation with those with whom we are associated with both social and cultural factors and economic ties have led to the expected response. In Ukraine, it is clear that the area of influence is not as moral or political as economic. Of course, Ukraine’s exclusive dependence on Russian oil capital is not the fault of today’s government, it is a difficult legacy of the previous regime, which did not care about alternative oil filling of the domestic market. The geopolitical component of this criminal negligence has now placed a heavy burden on Ukrainian society. The only way out of this is to sit at a table of talks and not with Russian oil traders, namely the Kremlin, whose last policy is implemented. The second ingredient includes internal, political, and economic factors. The low price of gasoline is essentially a banal populist play with society, which should prove the effectiveness of new power, but unfortunately has no economic basis. The Cabinet of Ministers is now operating, not in market-based methods, but more using administrative levers. If they were effective in the 1990s, now that the market-based mechanisms of economic regulation have proven their effectiveness, the tactical schemes that the current government is operating cannot replace the balanced economic strategy. In the case of a failure to regulate the meat crisis, when the promise to give cheap meat to the people remained a promise, and its legislative provision offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, designed in fact for the destruction of its own producer, the State would be convinced of the unpredictability of populist approaches. The offer to subdue the door to imported oil products will complete the domestic oil industry. We have supported the bill only to prevent a full-scale petrol crisis in Ukraine, but we are stressing once again the need for a well-thought-out and predictable economic policy. If oil is the blood of the world, then we have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u19	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. John the Rabbit has a word from the faction of the Ukrainian National Party. He'll be followed by Michael Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u20	A statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party about the deterioration of small and medium-sized businesses. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the Ukrainian government to the deterioration of the conditions of small and medium-sized business caused by changes in its regulation and taxation. The UNODC faction, while maintaining the social orientation of government activities, believes that authorities should take into account the impact and cost of their decisions on all parts of the Ukrainian population, including hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs. However, changes in legislation on a simplified taxation system, such as the transfer of a large part of small and medium-sized businesses to the general taxation system, continued negative tax practices in the middle of the year, created the need to look at business planners and have a retroactive effect: the rise in small and medium-sized business tension and, even, the end of entrepreneurial activity and the rise in unemployment. These changes do not significantly increase budget revenues, but they hurt middle class interests, which were the driving force of the orange revolution and the field. The UNODC faction warns that reducing trust in authority by entrepreneurs can cause considerable political harm to create obstacles to President Viktor Yushchenk's electoral program. The estimates that have been made show a lack of appreciation by the Government for the strategic ways of the economic breakthrough and the country’s forward-looking development. In particular, the authorities should respond to entrepreneurs about the future prospects of a simplified taxation system in Ukraine. Business is also interested in the government's plans for a country's economic strategy: whether it will be innovative or preserve the existing structure. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that the economic policy of the Government, including in the field of regulation and taxation of small and medium-sized businesses, should be strategic in overcoming the stereotypical inertial view of business only as a source of budget filling and starting to see the entrepreneur as a partner in the country's development. Entrepreneurs need established rules of the game for a long period of time and clear legislation, without its constant clarification by beginners. The very ideology of regulating the entire economy through tax laws is also needed. We think it's time for a strategic dialogue between government and business and we can't miss it. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party welcomes President Viktor Yushchenk's first reaction to small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we call on the Government to harmonize its position with the business community’s interest in the draft law on a simplified system of taxation, accounting and reporting. With the aim of universal state support for entrepreneurship, we propose to the government by the end of the year, this year, to develop and submit a special bill on small and medium-sized business to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also believe that the solution to the general problem of moderate taxes, social protection for citizens should be part of an innovative development strategy within the framework of the current model of the eco-social market for the economy and the paradigm of sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u21	The word is Mikola Komar, faction of "Ukraine". Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I'm going to make a statement to the faction of Ukraine regarding the use of courts in political persecution in Ukraine. The Ukrainian MP's faction, which is concerned, claims that politically motivated execution has become a common practice for the current government in Ukraine. In doing so, courts throughout Ukraine have been converted into a tool to intimidate psychological pressure and selective repression against those who do not demonstrate loyalty to orange power. It has to be noted that there is no basis for talking about the independence of the judiciary in our country today. The population of the Kirovograd district of the village of Petrova was thus shaken by unscrupulous cynicism. By the hands of the District Court of Petrov, a showcase was made over the head of the district election committee number 104 by Svetlana Pavlovna Szerbak. The disgraceful court has shown eloquently: local officials are ready for the harshest repression not only against Janukovic's supporters, but also against any man whom the new authorities will suspect in disloyalty to themselves. A woman with a third - group disabled son was assigned to be responsible for for foreclosure of the election and sentenced to three years in prison. The local press of Kirovogradjska shows that the process of "new power against Svetlana Szerbak" was similar to the trial of the 1930s, when under the wheel of a terrible state-run car was launched untrustworthy for the authorities. The relatives of the accused were not informed of the time and place of the case. However, officials of the district government were obliged to be present in court. District officials for the silent suffocation of the district orange authorities have cynically decided to play the common common man, a janitor in a kindergarten where there was not enough money even for a lawyer. A woman who is the caregiver of a disabled person who made a living working in a kindergarten accused her of having herself signed 60 ballots for candidate Yanukovich and tried to throw them into the box during the first round of the election. The question arises as to the adequacy of crime and punishment of an independent and objective court, the principal gang member will spend three years with those who actually committed crimes. In the meantime, it's really timeless. The faction of "Ukraine" strongly requires an end to orange cleaning. We officially request the President of Ukraine and the Attorney-General to give appropriate instructions regarding the unbiased review of Svetlana Szerbak's case. We demand to save a person from excessive punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u23	The word is given by Mikola Onichtuk, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u24	Mikola Onischuk, authorized by the factions of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. Ukraine's Act on Change in the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine is known to have made substantial changes in investment regimes and taxation in priority development areas, technology parks and special and free economic zones. The above - mentioned law is essentially a unilateral state, and I want to emphasize, stop and break the investment agreements that have been entered into on these objects. Since the entry into force of the law, a number of investors have appealed to the courts of Ukraine for damages caused by changes in the legislation governing investment activities in the areas of priority development in Ukraine’s special economic zones and technology parks. In connection with these national MPs, members of the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs have been submitted to Parliament and a bill numbering 7435 out of 27.04 has been registered. 05, which provides for amendments to the National Budget Act of Ukraine, the one that has been approved by Parliament recently, with the aim of regulating the relationship between investment entities and proposing a way to avoid conflicts in the performance of investor-state obligations. In particular, it is envisaged that contracts in the part of the implementation of investment projects in priority development areas, special economic zones, and joint action agreements without the creation of a legal entity, made by participants in the technology park to implement technology park projects that, in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, have been put in place and operate on the day of entry into force of the law, remain valid and continue to be fully operational in accordance with their terms and regulations, which were in force at the time of their establishment, no later than the deadline for these agreements, but not more than two years of time. National MPs, members of the industrial faction, entrepreneurs of Ukraine hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will approve the bill and thus ensure that there are no harsh social disputes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again of the rule of the Rules: on Wednesday we have 45 minutes of statements from factions and groups in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You and I have used twice as much as 90 minutes today. So let's think about it: either we make changes to the Rules, or we act in such a way that, starting on Wednesday, we give the word for factions and groups, and we have 13 of them, it'll take 39 minutes, and then we'll read the queries in six minutes. Six minutes of reading, ending, and still not, because we, dear friends, have just turned the questions into, well, we don't know what. We're told by the electorate -- instead of directing the letter into a particular department ourselves, we're conducting it through a parliamentary request while the MP's request is the highest form of reference. So first, we have to turn to a representative. If it doesn't satisfy you, it's the MP's request. And so you look at what we're turning our questions into, and then we're offended that this is how we react to them. But the appropriate response is that we send 200 requests a day to one or more authorities. It is understandable how they react to them. In addition, there is another rule in the Rules that gives those who are dissatisfied with the answer to the request the right to speak. I've got three of those applications today. That's another 10 minutes. So I would like to stress again that today we are going to break all minds and not think about the rules of the Rules, but the next time we either change the Rules, or we are going to act clearly within the time allocated: 35 — that is, 30 minutes on Friday and 45 minutes on Wednesday — and no more. We'll make it. Perhaps we will somehow be able to discipline ourselves. Now, about the disgruntled, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. After him, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u26	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. I, my dear friends, my esteemed colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, would not have come to this rostrum if I had. For four months, I've been talking to the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, on time, to talk to Teryohinim, to Pinzenic about the cost of gasification. Now, is there a mystery where the costs of 460 million bracelets are going to be channelled to gasification of rural areas? I got three answers from Teryochin, two answers from Pinzenic on the same line, after the gasification of the villages of the Novoseltsky region. In the latter reference, there was confirmation by the Montenegrin District Administration that the district government agreed to one and a half million dollars for the gasification of the villages of Dranice, Kostican, Manczikovci and Tarasovci in the region of Czerniewice. It would seem, it's all settled, let's go on with the money when they do? No one can answer that question. And in general, there went some sort of standard, and, let's say, someone legitimized it in the Cabinet of Ministers when the Ombudsman's request is not answered by the minister, but by the deputy, then the first deputy, then we can't get an answer at all. For this reason, I would like to turn from this high rostrum to Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly called for the consolidation of Parliament's efforts, and we understand that we should help the government solve the urgent problems that exist in the country today. But let's talk, if I could solve three questions in a year earlier in Kinach, I can't solve any questions today, even with the minister. I'm not saying this about the minister of agro-industrial politics, because we find support there. I want to say for another, dear friend. Since when has this Ministry of Economics started dealing with rural issues, especially gasification? I realize that this was once done, literally a year and a half ago, by the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. Why is Teryochin, not Baranowski, involved in social matters in the village today? Why would you go to Baranowski's village today instead of going to Treyochin, and not solve any questions? That's what I wanted to do in Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u27	Disgruntled by Vladimir Leschchenko. After him, Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u28	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! This statement was prompted by my dissatisfaction with the response of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ukrainian Prime Minister's request to Prime Minister Timoshenko of 10 March 2005 to pay off the debt for the work done and to finance the completion of the construction of the school in the city of Korukowka Chernigiv. Something in history. It is well - known that the region of Chernigiv, including the Coryukiv region, is affected by an accident at CHAES. According to government programs, there is a complex of work to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and create adequate living conditions for people. Special attention to children. A school in the city of Koryukowka in 450 student places began to be built in 1993. Work did not burn, but it burned for a decade. And it was in 2004 that both local and central authorities took the lead. The Cabinet of Ministers' decision to build a school in Chernobyl was to allocate 5 million dollars of government capital. Construction workers from several subcontracting organizations, local businesses, and the population took part in the work. This construction. Indeed, it became national because they worked both old and small. By September 1, 2004, the authorities had assigned the task of putting the first priority into operation, and it was carried out. This year, children are taught in new, beautiful, school. People, builders, volunteer assistants, teachers and students, came from the Cabinet of Ministers, the government, traditionally given the masters a symbolic key. But. The joy of the builders quickly faded. The total amount of work done was 9.1 million dollars. So it's 4.1 more than it's been allocated. It turns out that the state of this money is not going to pay, but the local budgets are empty. This has led to the plight of several construction organizations. My question was answered by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Anatoly Kirilovich. He reported that given the social significance of this object, it is the assignment of Kabmin, Mineconomy, MNS, and Minfin to resolve the issue. Then came the final answer from Mineconomy, signed by the deputy minister, from which it became clear. I don't think there's gonna be any action. Isn't that national? Aren't they more human? It's about kids, it's about school. Did they need to be stretched out for another 10 years? I turn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, for a second time, personally to consider this issue and to take steps to pay off the debt to builders and to finance the construction of this school. I also address Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Please correct the material of this presentation in connection with the satisfaction of the answer, personally Timoshenko Yulia Volodymiri. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the presiding officer is not your secretary to direct documents. Please, Mironenko Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u30	Crimea, Mironenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respectable compatriots! Having received a response from the Government of Ukraine to its request of 18 March 2005 concerning the illegal order of the Ministry of Transport number 312 continuing to operate under the new authority, I regret to admit that the Yushchenko-Timoshenko-Moraza team, which calls the policy of the previous criminal authority, continues, let us recognize this, too, criminal course for the continued illegal transfer of funds from the labour communities of the regions of Ukraine. That is evidence of my request. I bring the facts. In 1998, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and then the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine decided to seize Kerchi. A channel from the Kerchen Sea Trade Port and its resubordination to the Nikolavo configuration of Deltatzman with the transfer of funds from the region to this remote structure, which you will not name as a robbery from the region and the port. I have asked many authorities to assist in lifting this decision, given also that the budgets of the port, the city, the region may be affected by Gosbudget, since in the protocol decision of 18 November 1996, Russia has undertaken to pay the fees for passing the ships to the Kerchen seaport and thus to Ukraine. Resubmission of the Canal to the Nikolai entity, Deltatzman, would violate this agreement with further grave consequences, including deteriorating Ukrainian-Russian relations. Following several requests, my request was supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs and other committees. The above-mentioned looting illegal decision has been stalled. But on 15 April 2004, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine issued an inconvenient order No. 312 providing for the transfer of all Ukrainian ship traffic control services, the function of maritime safety to the Deltatzman structure, which is in direct contravention of articles 75 and 88 of the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Navigation. It is the port and port captains who are responsible for safety and navigation, the pilotage of the Locman Service, the ship management service. In connection with this violation of Ukrainian law, the labour groups of Kerchensky and Feodosian Sea Trade Ports have submitted requests to the Kyiv Economic Court, which is convinced that under the pressure of the government authorities, he has made a appearance that he has not noticed a grave violation of the Law. Labour groups of ports, the population of the port regions and all the honest people of Ukraine are asking Julius Vladimirovna Timoshenko, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the judges of Ukraine to ensure the lifting of the Ukrainian Ministry of Transport Order No. 312, which is a flagrant violation of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u31	Yes. Dear colleagues, the speeches have finally been completed, and I am addressing the secretariat: the issues that have been raised in the statements of the factions and the MPs, which have a bearing on how to address the relevant references to the ministries and authorities, please prepare. Here is the question: the draft Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Stockpiling and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction, Bill 0253. Yes, I would like to invite you to speak with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Long Igor Alexiyovich, please, Igor Alexiyovich. How long have you been here? Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, you are presented with a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. This convention, also known as the Ottawa Convention, is a multilateral document in the field of international humanitarian law. The purpose of the convention is to overcome the consequences of indiscriminate and widespread use of antipersonnel mines in many parts of the world. The declared goal is to be achieved by completely banning and eliminating a particular type of conventional weapon, which includes antipersonnel mines. The convention was opened for signature on December 3, 1997, and took effect on March 3, 1999. As of today, 144 nations have ratified or acceded to the Convention, 8 other states, including Ukraine, have signed but not ratified this international legal act. It should be noted that participation in this international instrument is today the standard for the vast majority of the world, primarily for European nations. The issue of universalisation of the Ottawa Convention remains one of the priorities for implementing the external policy of the European Union. A low number of countries that have long borders on land and for historical reasons remain outside the Convention. Among the most important provisions of the Convention: disposal of stockpiled stockpiles of anti-personnel mines within four years from the date of entry into force of the Convention. In addition, the Convention imposes an obligation on the States Parties to ensure that all anti-personnel mines are destroyed in replaced areas for a period of ten years, as well as the willingness of UN member States of regional and non-governmental organizations to provide financial, material and other assistance for these purposes. The last position for Ukraine is of particular importance. Ukraine signed the Convention on February 24, 1999. This was decided by taking into account the provisions of the earlier Memorandum on Mutual Co-operation between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Canada in order to eliminate stockpiles of anti-personnel mines that are stored by the Ukrainian Armed Forces and prohibited by the Convention. A successful project of destruction of more than 400,000 PMN-type mines was implemented in Ukraine during 2002-2003, thanks to the NATO Trust Fund. The cost of the project was $800,000. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs continues to take steps to establish and implement a larger and more valuable project in Ukraine with the destruction of PFM mines at the expense of donor countries. [[These are anti-personnel fuzz mines.]] According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense, there are about six million antipersonnel mines of this type in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Most importantly, the expiration date for these mines has ended or is close. The ratification of the convention is foreseen by the "Ukraine-EU" action plan and is included in the action plan approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on April 22. As a result of its previous work in December 2004, the European Commission referred to the Ukrainian side the technical task of a project to destroy PMM mines in Ukraine. This document includes a commitment by the European Commission to allocate six million euros to the project. The agreement for its initiation is the ratification of Ukraine. Conventions. Honourable national MPs, the solution to the problem of the destruction of PMS is part of the efforts of the Ukrainian government to ensure the disposal of significant stockpiles that are unusable and hazardous to the storage of ammunition. [[anti-personnel mines]] This problem was further acute as a result of the extraordinary events that took place in the spring of last year and recently in connection with the explosions at the Ambulance Armours in Zaporezki and Hmelnicka. In this context, I would like to point out that by ratifying the convention, Ukraine will thus benefit from the possibility of receiving assistance from key donors, such as the European States. In this connection, the Ministry requests approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Will there be questions? Yes. Please sign up for three minutes. Light up on the board. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Please pass the word to Sergey Zizku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u35	Please, Sergey's bug.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u36	The Honourable Reporter, following the ratification of the convention banning the use of stockpiles of production and transfer of anti-personnel mines, will be obliged to dispose of the unfavourable and anti-personnel mines assigned to Ukraine for three military districts since the time of the Soviet Union. [[six million pieces]] Please tell the seven million euros needed to dispose of these mines, whether the entire amount is planned to be allocated at the expense of donors, or whether Ukraine itself will be obliged to allocate part of this amount to the creation of appropriate industrial capacities, because technology or technology is possible to destroy them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. As I mentioned in the report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is already working with the European Commission on technical design. In the process of processing, we assume that the amount allocated by the European Commission, seven million euros, will be sufficient to destroy all available assets at the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine's anti-personnel mines of fugasy type. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u38	Please, Mikola Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u39	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to colleague Lechchenk Volodymyr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u40	Please, Volodymyr Leschenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u41	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Igor Aleksiowiovich, please tell us without ratifying this convention, were there examples of Ukraine applying or transferring anti-personnel mines and continuing production and stockpiling? And did this convention be ratified by such large states as the United States, Britain, and these Eurodonators that you are talking about? And in general, I think we need to support ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u42	Thank you for this very important question. Having signed the convention, Ukraine made appropriate commitments. And no cases of use and no more transfers of mines to other countries have been recorded, as have the production of these. This type of weapon has been suspended. With regard to ratification by the countries of Europe, all European countries have ratified this convention, and it has become effective for all but. Among the eight countries that signed but did not ratify, I will list them: Brunei, Cook Islands, Haiti, Indonesia, Marshall Islands, Poland, Vanuatu, Ukraine. Everyone else has ratified. As far as the big countries are concerned, they did not join the convention, as I said in the report, large countries that historically have problems on their borders. It's Iran-Iraq, India-Pakistan, Russia-China. Nor did the United States sign because antipersonnel mines are used in Korea, where American troops are deployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u43	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u44	Please tell me the following topic: You said that we had destroyed the mines of pressure. You're talking about today's work and, practically, ready for disposal of anti-personnel fugue mines. And the rest, what is the situation with the rest of the mines, their number and prospects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. According to data available in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are also more than half a million anti-personnel mines of other types, such as OM-72 mines, MON, POM-2, which will also require destruction. I would like to point out that working on a project to destroy mines does not mean that the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs ends with regard to the search for donors. All those countries that are members of the convention have among their obligations to help destroy these weapons. For this same purpose, every five years a conference is held to review the implementation of this convention, which means that not only does the world society commit itself to the implementation of this convention but it provides assistance and checks every five years as it happens. So we're going to keep working on this small, relative to what we're going to destroy, the number of other types of mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u46	Igor Alexiyovich, please tell us why this issue has not been ratified since 1999.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u47	There were several reasons. First of all, procedural reasons for changing governments. Secondly, in the previous draft ratification of the convention, it was suggested that the convention should be ratified by commitments from other States, in the case of the European Commission, regarding the allocation of funds. This has become known to the European Commission, and during the negotiations, during the "Ukraine-EU" summit two years ago, the European side stressed that it can only be about project implementation and funding after the ratification of the Ukraine Convention. A letter from the Head of the European Commission to the then Prime Minister of Ukraine explaining clearly that the previous ratification required an article of the same convention. In fact, these procedural points have taken up quite a bit of a time, and today, we're only bringing this convention into ratification today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u48	I've come to realize that hope is that this time they won't do the same as they did with Chernobyl. Okay, thank you, have a seat, please. From the National Security and Defence Committee's profile committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u49	The Special Committee supports the proposal for ratification of the convention. We agree with the argument put forth in the report by the deputy minister of foreign affairs. Supports the ratification of the Ministry of Defence. But, dear colleagues, the destruction of mines is only part of a very acute problem. For some reason, about 2.5 million tons of ammunition have been stockpiled in Ukraine, many of which have been exhausted by the times set. The 2010 estimated demand for about 600,000 tons. Unfortunately, the governments that have existed in Ukraine for all these years, including today’s Cabinet of Ministers, have not given the problem the meaning it deserves. Arsenals, bases and warehouses are overloaded at an average of 20 percent. Land bulls have only more than 57 percent of their stockpiles. Less than half the automatic fire alarm equipment, and it's out of date. Atmospheric factors cover slightly more than a third of the stockpile, and 12 percent of its storage sites are not equipped with lightning-protection devices. Every year, things get worse. Tragic events in Artemsky, Novogoddanovitsa, and on May 6, this year, in Tswiatos, it's not a coincidence. The same could and could happen at any time on many 159 bases of arsenals and warehouses where ammunition is stored, even in the normal organization of the case. To remove the problem, experts believe that at least 150,000 tons of ammunition is to be disposed of each year. The available capacity allows the processing of no more than 60,000 tons. And the usage is this: in 2003, 35,000 600 tons were disposed of, three times last year, with less than 11.5,000 tons, at the beginning of this year, a little more than one thousand tons. Over a long period of time, small amounts of money were spent on solving the problem. After the tragedy in Novogoddanówka, the budget predicted a substantial, threefold and even greater increase in allocations. However, when reviewing the budget in March of this year, officials claimed that more social orientation, acquittal to these goals, despite the strong denial of our committee, had been reduced to 33.20 million dollars, respectively. In addition, two thirds of the budget allocations are expected to be made in the fourth quarter, which threatens the implementation of the programmes. The situation is more than disturbing. It is, in fact, one of the greatest threats to Ukraine’s national security today. Sadly, this was usually an emotional, or hysterical, response to tragic events. The measures were largely of a prohibited nature. Instead of establishing order, eliminating violations and abuses, the ban on entrepreneurial structures was limited to participating in the work of the disposal of ammunition. And the available power in state-owned enterprises is being used, as we have seen, very insufficiently. The state order for the disposal of ammunition is not proven. It seems that in a state at the governmental level, no one is essentially coordinating or responsible for the solution of this state-wide problem. On April 13, our committee, together with the Committee on Economic Policy, attended by the heads of the Ministry of Defence, representatives of the Council of National Security and Defence, a number of ministries and departments and departments, experts in business have considered this issue in a comprehensive manner at a retreat in the village of Kalinovka in the Vinnitsky region, where one of the largest arsenals of the Ministry of Defence is located. Recognizing the situation that has resulted in the conservation and disposal of munitions being unsatisfactory and still intolerable, we have asked the President of Ukraine and the government to consider these issues at the National Security and Defence Council meeting, and the government to make the decisions that the situation requires. We know nothing about the government's actions, and the National Security Council meeting is being prepared and may take place as soon as possible. In informing the Supreme Council of the above, I would like to hope that this time the matter will not be limited to the consideration of the National Security and Defence Council, and the government will finally actually deal with this problem. And we propose to ratify the mine convention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u50	Thank you, Gregory Corniovich, for you. Dear colleagues! What? Questions? Please, if you have any questions, three minutes. Let us ask questions to the head of the committee. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear George Korniyovich, I am very impressed by the position you have just expressed regarding the state of concern, which is, in general, the storage of Ukraine's munitions, not just mines, but ammunition, including those left behind after the Soviet Union's chapter. Do you know about the flooding, during the so-called separation of the Black Sea fleet, the flooding in the Bays of Sevastopol of Combat Toxic Substances that today are causing an increase in harmful chemicals in the water in the Bays of Sevastopol a thousand times. I'd like to ask your committee to take this matter under control, because it belongs to your control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u52	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, we'll take that into consideration. Although, frankly, these questions were not raised once by previous heads of the ministries, the Ministry reported that this was not the case. But since you're in violation of that question, we'll go back to him again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u53	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Olga Hinzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u55	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u56	Thank you, colleague, for the opportunity to ask you a question. Dear Grigory Korniyovich, as a national MP, as a citizen of Ukraine, I am concerned about one problem: here we are gathering, solving such pressing issues as we are doing something, and here we are in a system where what is solved here, or spoken, does not go down with such a stick. I'm concerned about the fate of these military personnel. I understand mine mines, and how many questions arise, what you're talking about, military personnel released to the reserve don't have that kind of care about the army. I think what it takes for the government right now is for them to take care of these people who are free to work and who are preparing to work in this one in our army of our Ukraine. Please tell me, I just don't get it: why such a careless attitude? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u57	Well, Your Honor Olga Petrovna, this is a question directly to the problem that we're discussing, but I'll tell you. You know, with what persistence our committee, members of our committee and our faction, I can tell you, they fought to eliminate, say, injustice in the pension insurance of military personnel, depending on the time they were released from the armed forces. Finally, we were able to make a decision. It was very difficult. There was an attempt to implement it, and we stood by it. There's a lot of problems. Frankly, we've created a proper legal base. And now it depends on how the executive authority implements them. Among other things, there was an open discussion on Monday at the meeting of the heads of factions, groups, and committees with the participation of members of the government, and I also had to address the issue. I think we're going to live to be in a position where the government does not dance on ice, not riding on horses, but doing business.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u58	Vladimir Bronnikov, please, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u59	Georgi Korneevich, according to the events that take place at the warehousing depots, the Ministry of Defence has no idea what emergency planning is, an emergency management that includes 90 per cent of the preparation of organizational and technical activities, so that nothing can happen to be ready if that happens. In taking on these commitments to destroy mines, is the Ministry of Defence safe for this job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u60	How will I answer your question? Our communication with Deputy Minister Tereshenko Vladimir Ivanovic, who is now in charge of this station, personally convinces me that this leader is well aware of the problem and will be determined to resolve it. I would like to express my confidence in that. And of course we'll help. But I wanted to say in this regard, when, in fact, we are almost every year changing the heads of the Ministry, we are naive to rely on order in this area. What's happening to the personnel in this State, comrades, is not even a circus, it's hard to even say: we're breaking everything down because we're moving structures, and we're driving the footage away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u61	Yes, thank you, Georgi Korniyovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's go to the vote. You're welcome. What were we talking about? Let's take 12 minutes to talk. Please have the names of the National Deputies on the list of dates for the performance. Jury Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the project proposes to ratify the Otava Convention, which was signed on behalf of Ukraine in 99th year. And this is one of the first steps that President Yushchenk is going to take with Ukraine as a civilized country. Clearly, this is one of our nation’s priority foreign policy issues. But given that seven stockpiles today contain these mines, the mines of the PFM-1 and 1C class, which have a rare explosion of the PS-6D type, which according to its properties is related to the substances of the first hazard class, I believe that our government, I emphasize, not only to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in such cases as the ratification of such a convention as the previous condition that you ratify first, and then we give some money, which is much more than six or maybe seven million euros, because we have not been added to the accounts by the government, and we have to add calculations. In such cases, financial guarantees are to be taken from the world. I don't understand why the government of Ukraine didn't get such guarantees. What do they not know how to obtain guarantees? They know. The fifth reserve in the world of these mines. Why I'm talking about having such commitments and financial guarantees. The point is, in accordance with article 4 of the Convention, we have to destroy these mines, perhaps in the shortest time, but not later than four years after the convention's validity. Of course, if there is no funding, we will not be able to implement this point of the Convention. So I would ask for the future and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Finance, and the whole government, and here today Roman Petrovich Immortal, would ask the government in general in such cases to ask questions about a comprehensive approach and precisely to be given financial guarantees, I warn you, because we have already seen Ukrainians fool us on many issues, including Chernobyl, on another issue. They say they'll help, and there's no help. I propose to ratify this convention without any warning, but I have a warning to my government, and I have expressed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u63	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, our faction supports this convention. There are even too many arguments to support it. But I want to draw our common attention to the back of this convention's medal. And the reverse of the medal is that by now we have no documents from the depositary and the governments that are supposed to help Ukraine destroy all these arsenals that are no longer necessary to our nation. And that's why it's a problem and a question of issues. And the second. According to article 4 of the Convention, its party, or Ukraine, undertakes to destroy all its stockpiles of antipersonnel mines within four years of its acquisition. The Convention becomes effective for the State six months after the depository of the relevant instrument of ratification is handed over to the convention. I don't believe it! Cut me off, do with me, but I don't believe the state of Ukraine will hand over the depository to the appropriate instrument of ratification, and that's what the disgrace is about, the spit that the Supreme Council of Ukraine received today from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on its face. On May 15, 2003, you and I in this room approved a law on ratification of Ukraine's European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government -- blue and white, and orange -- torpedoed and sabotaged the submission of a ratification certificate to the Depository. And even today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, unfortunately, did not support my parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. So I would like to add this point: the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit a Depositary Ratification Letter within one month of approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u65	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. He's invited to the presentation. George Manchulenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u66	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party, Luganshina. Dear colleagues! We are at a meeting of our faction to discuss this issue, based on our position that today statistics say that anti-personnel mines are not as much a means of fighting between the military as the victims whose main mass is the civilian population and children. That is why we support this concept and believe that Ukraine must do so. The only question is a few questions that we would like to discuss, perhaps even by going beyond what has been condemned today, so to speak, the draft law. First. Under the Convention, no later than four years after the adoption of the Convention, the State has an obligation to ensure the destruction of all anti-personnel mines. What the Deputy Minister has told us today is that what our colleague, the Head of the Special Committee, has told us, is doubtful that we will do so for four years. Moreover, in general support of this, and the faction of the People's Party will vote in favour of ratifying this bill, we propose -- this is ours as a result of our joint work -- we propose that we hold parliamentary hearings and consider the whole issue of the disposal of ammunition, because today, and today, too, this has not been a one-time exercise, but rather, rather, the preservation of ammunition in our Armed Forces raises very large questions. We're practically not going through any less important time so something doesn't explode, something like that doesn't go off. To this end, we believe, and this will probably be right for us in Parliament to listen to this question - and answer ourselves, society, the international community, how Ukraine will ensure security and how this will continue. Next moment. We would also like to understand how the environmental dimension of the destruction of ammunition, including anti-personnel mines, will be respected, because ammunition is being destroyed to date. To the extent that it affects the environment, not only professionals but also the population and, accordingly, the whole community should know. In general, by supporting this bill, we believe that the problem needs to be seen more widely. And here our colleague was absolutely right, the Head of the Sectoral Committee, that the problem of the disposal of ammunition, as a wider one, requires more careful study. And perhaps the Supreme Council makes sense to address this subject in a more substantive and concrete manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u67	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u68	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues. Anti-personnel mines are scary weapons. That's something I can say responsibly as an air force officer. And unfortunately. Not only are military but not as many military personnel suffering from these weapons as the civilian population is greatly affected. In those minefields that remain in the fields of warfare, they are not replaced or undermined by the peaceful population. Last year, I had to be in South Lebanon. where exchange is carried out by our engineering battalion, which has demonstrated its extremely high level of expertise, and the leadership of the Oon's mission highly appreciates the activities of our engineering battalion there. And there are problems in those minefields that have remained in southern Lebanon. The problems of undermining civilians. And it was from the humane goals that the Ottawa Convention on the Prohibition of Use, the Stockpiling of Production and the Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and Their Destruction was developed and signed, and it was from the problems that he was talking about that the vast majority of these mines were suffering from the temperate population. And I think that Ukraine, which under the Constitution, which by the actions of the new power should become a rightful democratic state, must go this way in order to gradually dispose of such terrible weapons as anti-personnel mines, regardless of the type and modification of these mines. I think the Ukrainian side did the right thing when they signed this convention, and now we're about to ratify this convention. In this way, we confirm our commitment to supporting democratic values in Ukraine for building a legal society in Ukraine and for abandonment, including through the ratification of this convention, to moving away from that policy that leads to suffering, suffering and the loss of civilians. I think we should ratify this convention and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party fully supports the ratification of this convention. I want to take this opportunity to say about the problem of my constituency. In my district, in the district, near the villages of Kamyan and Snachô, there are stockpiles of rocket artillery. And I'm asking the Ministry of Defense, first of all, to pay particular attention to these warehouses, because there are enough flaws, and I'm being approached by my voters. And this problem is related to the broader problem of the disposal of surplus weapons that is taking place today in our society. The Ukrainian People's Party and its parliamentary faction support the ratification of this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u69	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. May I have your attention, please? The draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on Their Destruction is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 0153]] Please vote. [[12:14:09]] For 377 The law's approved. Dear colleagues! I would very much ask you to look at the list of legislative acts that we have to consider today, and we worked more quickly because we have very little time left. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0258]] Reporter of the Head of the State Road Service, Gurgios Vadim Mikolaiovich. Please, very briefly. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u70	On February 28, 2005, the Agreement was concluded between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under the project "Other project "Renovation of the Kiev-Chop Road". This project is a continuation of the first joint project with the EBRD on the restoration of the Kiev-Chop road. Implementation, which began in 2002. I'm going to say that this year, in July, the first phase will be completed, and the first section of the road from Chopo to Brody will be delivered this year. The new project envisions a further restoration of the highway from Stry to Lvov and from Lvov to Brodov. The total cost of the second project is 138 million euros, of which 100 million euros is a loan to the EBRD and 38 million euros to Ukraine. The work is planned to be carried out in 2005-2007. Construction is expected to begin in July 2005 and to repair 30 km of road by the end of the year, and in the current year 30 million euros of credit and 11 million euros of co-financing are planned at the expense of Ukraine. The total amount of credit is 100 million euros. Credit resources are provided to the extent that work is done, and interest on credit is paid for the euro’s floating rate. Plus 1% year-olds. I notice that this is the smallest rate that Ukraine can get today, practically, is not more than 3% of the year. Payment for a commitment of 0.5% of the unselected amount. The repayment of the loan should take place for 12 years, 3 years of credit for which only interest is paid for the use of the loan. The calculation of the total costs of carrying out debt obligations for all the loans involved in the construction of international transport corridors is the first and second loans of the EBRD and the Deutschebank loan shows that the maximum amount of expenditure to be incurred in 2006-2007 will not exceed 15%. The adoption of the Law on the Ratification of a Credit Agreement will allow the EBRD to contribute 100 million euros to the implementation of this project. As a result of the implementation of the project, there will be an annual economic impact on road transport due to reduced decommissioning, fuel-oil savings, reduced traffic accidents. And I also want to point out that this project has a social dimension, because thousands of new jobs are involved, the local industry is involved, and the implementation of this project will make it possible to create an additional few thousand jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u71	Yes. Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please. Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u72	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Tell me, Your Honor, we already have a project called Kiev-Odessa. It was found that I had been asked to check the Accounts Chamber, and it was confirmed that there were no projects at all, that is, everything was done from the knee. Given that there are so many things that are being done on my knee right now, I really like the good conditions that they give us, for the first time, really. Whether there are projects now to be transparent, there is no funding for any political power again, there is always going and now everything is being stolen in Mintrans, everything that was stolen last year, in the past year, on Yanukovich's election today is on the shoulders of our Ukrainians. You just raised the prices of the Ministry of Transport, you just went up. Is this going to happen now, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to emphasize that the "Kravtodore" is the central authority of the executive authority that is subject to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the first time. It's different. The credit provided by the EBRD is only available for the completed project, a project that has been carried out by an expert on international financial institutions and experts. This loan is accompanied by international experts, an accompanying group is formed. And no channels, it can't even be done between this project and the project that was based on Kiev-Odessa. There are no abuses, there are total tenders, there are transparent tenders, there are tenders supported by international financial institutions, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, all of these issues have been resolved. That's why I see it. And the projects are, I emphasize that. Without projects, we couldn't run these tenders and we couldn't get that money involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u74	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Vadim Mikolaiovich, I have two questions for you. I'm right here. Two questions. First. Yesterday we were looking at our country's introduction to the WTO. And there I read in a note from the government that said, "Honduras needs Ukraine at the entrance to the WTO to sign a contract to create jobs for people who are unprofessional. First. And the second. It requires us to appoint non - Ukrainian heads of educational institutions. I'd like to ask you in that sense. Please tell me what percentage of jobs will be ours. And the second. Why is this law 500 000 euros not planning a reconstruction of Autodora? Your own department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u76	I'll answer that question. About the number of seats. I said it's a few thousand, I can't say it now. Once ratified, how much will it be? And it's actively involved. Let's say this road is going through regions that are not industrial and that are not agrarian today. And it's very important for them to have a project like this. And today a lot of locals are working on these projects, on the road. Already in the first area, I mean, Chop Streath. As for the second question, it was 500,000 euros -- it was for reform. Under the terms of the EBRD loan, we need to reform the governance structure of the road economy. It is now predicted that there will be negotiations for another 300 million to complete this road from the Ships to Kiev. And the EBRD is setting up with international financial institutions, and with the European Union they are setting conditions for the reform of the road economy. They provide technical assistance in the form of consultations and in the form of technical experts who will prepare projects for us along with us for reform. Now, that's a concept that's ready. She trusts that there will be separate functions of government that will be directed at public roads and local roads that should be passed on to local authorities and with budgetary funding. And there will be a reformed structure, the strategy of financing the road economy itself. I mean, everything that 0.5 million that will be used to do this will have a billion-dollar effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u77	Time's up, thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u78	Dear Head, dear colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 17 May considered a draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, introduced by the President of Ukraine. The entities of the credit agreement are the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine as the borrower on behalf of Ukraine and the State Motorways Service of Ukraine as the contractor of the project. A credit agreement is being ratified to implement a second joint project with the EBRD to repair the Kiev-Chop road. This project is a continuation of the first joint project after the renewal of M06 Kyiv-Chop. The project is intended to further restore the highway from Strý to Broda. The total length of the area to be repaired is about 180 km. The total cost of this project is 138 million. Euros of which 100 million Euro credit to the EBRD, 38 million The euro is its own money. Credit resources for the project are provided for 15 years, interest on the loan is paid at the floating rate of the euro, plus one percent of the annual outstanding amount of the loan. The source of the loan's return should be the funds received by the U.S. State Budget for Road Finance. There is also a three - year debt period, and during this period only the interest on the loan is paid. The repayment of the loan should take place for 12 years, paying twice a year during the eighth, nineteenth year. In the view of the committee, this bill will significantly improve the road condition of Ukraine's long-term resource on terms that are favourable to Ukraine, and the main thing is to make a virtually direct bus to Europe, which will significantly improve Ukraine's connection with the countries of Europe. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u79	Any questions for our colleague? Please sign up, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Kenzier, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u80	I ask you to give the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u81	Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u82	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear reporter! I think you're also backing the thesis here that still a good new authority does what it does to repair roads. I want to know if you've considered this issue on the committee about technical assistance for 3.5 billion dollars. Euro. Who, then, will carry out this technical assistance in real life, to whom will this very cost go? That's the first question. And the second question is, do you know if there's enough money left to finish repairing the road from the town of Skola to the breakup, or the first row, is there any money? When this repair is finally finished, because it's very weary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u83	With regard to this project, I wish to emphasize that this project has been under consideration for over a year. That is, the ratification of this agreement, the negotiation process with the EBRD began more than a year ago. Thus, it is not an entirely correct question to say that the power or other began to do good roads or to do bad things. With regard to the first section, the first tranche of data from Ukraine, which we asked, let's say, to the committee, and asked similar questions, this project is almost completed at the final stage. It's from the words of Kravtodor. 75 kilometers of roads have already been completed. The next step is to ratify this agreement so that there is not a piece of the road made and we do not, say, from Chopa to Kiev, this highway, because its value will only be if it is the direct highway of Kiev-Chop. It is therefore appropriate to ratify the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u84	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u85	Andrei Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please give the floor to Anatoly Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u86	Anatoly Orzhachowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you a question like this. First of all, I understand the problem facing the government today regarding the proper design of roads, construction, and so forth. And I think it's not just repairing the Kiev-Chop road. The one who drove through our niece Ukraine, he must have mentioned the good word, the good word, the quiet word of all power and all that. But I have a question: Are we taking too much credit? One way or another, our people will have to work them out and give them back. And secondly, is there a total in your profile committee, a total of Ukraine's loans that will have to be paid in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u88	We have data, I've been preparing for this project, so... To date, Ukravtodor has taken 75 million euros for the first phase of the road, and today's ratification is 100 million euros. And the next loan, which is already being discussed, is a 480 million euro "Docebank" loan, but we will come to that. As far as much or little is concerned, I believe that this should be done by the Government. The Government requests the Supreme Council to adopt the draft law. That's why it's the only way to perceive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u89	Vitaly Yuriovich, thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. What, shall we vote, dear fellows? Well, this is where they insist on performing. Well, what can I do. Let's have 10 minutes, let's have a discussion. Yuri Carmazin, please. Are you refusing or not? Dear e, here are the people, the national MPs, sorry, they are the Gentiles. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Ivan Mihovich. Well, it's not new, but it's registered according to the Rules and according to the requirements of the Rules, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for taking us to the Gentiles, but we are common people. I understand it's you to defuse the situation. Dear National Deputies! I am carefully studying all of them into one agreement, because then our children and grandchildren will come to account for everything we're borrowing today. And so this project predicts that we will be paying it by 2015. And so I didn't hear the answer to any questions today. For example, the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on this, that Appendix 1 to the loan agreement does not present a clear distribution of the projected use of credit funds, particularly in the part of the cost of job surveillance and conceptual services. There is no funding source and no spending direction of 38 million euros that should be sent to the project by the Ukrainian side. What I'm now pointing out is that if this was killed in the conclusions of the Science and Technology Administration, the answers to these questions would definitely be asked to be representatives of the government to make them sound here from the rostrum. Clearly, there were no such answers. We have to take them and give them to them. I read carefully the entire text of the agreement, saw that it was in principle prepared at a good legal level, and I think we need to ratify it. We need to ratify, but at the same time. I take this opportunity to express my wishes to the citizens of Ukraine who live in the Odessa region, Kirovgrad, Cherkaske region and all over Ukraine, who use the Odessa-Kiev highway, bring it in order! How much money! How much more is consumed by world standards than is spent in a clean field, as it were in Germany or in France or in any country. How could this happen? So I'd like to, because you work with the same people that you do work with there, and these schemes are now planning to build a further and, you know, keep checking to get the building, the so-called autobane approved. I say so-called, because you can't call it that. And let's do this so that we are, indeed, a new power, an honest and pure power. And I propose ratifying this agreement and taking a closer look at controlling the use of funds. But punish those who have stolen the funds already in those cars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u91	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u92	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, fellow MPs and voters! The questions are really, really acute, because both economic, and environmental, and defence, and political, and finally the social significance of Chop-kyev's path, we all understand. However, the relevant materials presented for ratification, especially the fundamental expert conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, contain serious comments and questions. The U.S. and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have a number of bottlenecks that can significantly damage not only this route but also the national interests of the country as a whole. The Company's faction generally supports the bill and will vote for it, will support the Committee's decision on finance and banking. However, it is also necessary to draw the attention of the entities to the implementation of the credit agreement to the lessons learned from the implementation of the first line of the Kiev-Chop Road Renovation project. Its restoration in the previous years after Zakarpatt took place slowly, without involving sufficient local travelers, who have no worse experience than Macedonians. Some of the robots were inconvenient. These and other shortcomings were noted by the former minister of transportation, Kip, who eventually controlled them. Near the village The middle still works around the small bridge, which is probably long reported, and the funds used. In the bill under consideration, number 258, there are also many things that are unclear and suspicious. Therefore, I propose that the Committee’s material, especially in the Department of Construction, Transport, and Communications, identify those suggestions, those comments, warnings, and take steps to prevent possible negative consequences. In particular, to inform local governments and administrations, for general attention, the general public about workflow, and to control spending. In particular, even a small sum of 2.5 million euros, which is foreseen for consultation, also avenges the danger that, as with the experience of other projects, it is evident that these costs tend to remain abroad. Normal, you need full information on the organizational and financial aspects of this project, which is rightly pointed to by scientific and scientific management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u93	Basil Nadrag. The faction of the People's Party will be followed by Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u94	Vasily Nadrag, People's Party, Lugansk Region. The great writer Gogol said we had two problems: fools and roads. Today we have an opportunity with you to touch at least one of them and try to resolve it. As you all remember, we have always, traditionally, our people, when they get abroad, always come with great admiration, surprises and misunderstandings: why there are roads and we have only a direction of movement. And when we are discussing today the problem that we have the opportunity to build a normal, normal I mean by international standards, there are some criticisms and doubts. I would like to say that the People's Party faction, when discussing this issue at its meeting, has decided to support the bill. Because we believe that a civilized, normal, quality road that will allow Kiev to be connected to the west is what is the beginning of what we should do in general on our roads. Because the geopolitical situation, I would say, implies that Ukraine's transport situation can not only use roads for its domestic needs but also be a normal link between Europe and Asia. Accordingly, the existence of normal roads throughout Ukraine, from the west to the south and from the north to the south, and accordingly the development of civilized roads conforming to all the standards of world transport practices, is a strategic task, and the bill thus gives us the opportunity to take practical steps towards this realization. I would like to say again that the bill provides for the financing of the second contract already in place: the first contract for part of the road. It'll end in June. And I think it'll give us an opportunity to, I mean, get us, as a state, a normal quality road. If we do this and extend it as a third phase of what the Head of State reported here, I think that as a whole we will be given a normal transport artery between the capital of the State and the western direction. And I would like to express the wish that, with the same perseverance, we will build normal roads from Kiev to the east, from Kiev to the south, and Kiev to the north, because this is necessary, I stress the necessary element. If we want to build a normal country, the existence of normal transport routes is essential to the normal economy and its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u95	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u96	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Ladies and gentlemen, I've had to take this road on several occasions. In the people, it's called the Olympic route. Unfortunately, in connection with the boycott of the Moscow Olympics, it wasn't finished. And it is those areas that have not been completed that are supposed to be reconstructed as a result of this loan. So I really think that this bill needs to be supported and ratified. At the same time, the worst part of the road, as already pointed out by Deputy Kostinük, is the district from. Before the coup, and through the coup, where tax payers spend their free expenses each year. I don't think the science-expert's warning about reorganizing our road service is right. Because the cost of repairing and building roads has already reached international proportions, and the quality of these works requires a better desire. That's why it's right. Nor is there proper concern about the growth of loans. As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I know that this process is under the control of the government and the Committee on Budgets, and Ukraine is on time with all the loans, and Ukraine's debt is declining. Moreover, foreign loans have now become more advantageous than domestic loans in terms of falling foreign currency. So I would like to conclude with our colleague Vasil Nadraga's opinion. Let us really take the road, and gradually lead them to the necessary international level so that we are not considered fools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u97	Honorable colleagues, discussion of the subject. One minute, you have to sign up for motive. Please. It's written for reasons. But since we've got people here who haven't made it to the show, three minutes of motive. Nightshade, school and Klimpush, that's all. Dear colleagues, please. Please. Please, Nighthawk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Democratic Ukraine. I wanted to point out the following. First of all, your service is within the Ministry of Transport. Second of all, there's no budget, as you say, in public service, there's no budget, remember. And we have the Cabinet of Ministers or the projects are being implemented, not the European Development Bank. It's for you not to use these anymore. Now here's the next one. To date, four billion budget resources have not been distributed to you or have not been distributed to the executives, and the objects are not defined, including eight million on roads of utility. I would like to point out that our faction will support you and this bill. But please do not abuse your position of service. Distribute the funds and start implementing them. These are the jobs of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u99	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that, indeed, there are not even two thoughts here whether to give these costs or vote here or not, because we have to and should vote for at least another road to be built in Ukraine. I'm sure it'll be built. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize that the tender should be transparent, because there was already a Macedonian firm covering the concrete road in the Chop Kiev area. The part where there was an old concrete. She covered it in such a way that after the first rain, much of the road was damaged. So I would like to study very carefully the question of who's financing, who's designing, who's building, and who's controlling it? Because there can't be one department doing all these four things because there has to be mutual control, not mutual, as they say, covering up the problem. So I stress that you pay attention to that, and the Supreme Council will support you both now and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u101	Yes, Oreste Klimpus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u102	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the question that we are considering is of course extremely important. And today, there were no other thoughts in the room than what we needed to support. I wanted to draw your attention to this situation. Yesterday, when we supported the Hall, the Law on Reducing Excise Congregations and Customs for Fuel Materials, for Petroleum Products, we also significantly reduced the sources of financing for the road sector, which is financed by a special fund, as we have accepted with you, and it is financed in turn by customs and excise assemblies on petroleum products. So it's very important for us to be able to use this loan that we're offered, which is long overdue. I ask you all to support this and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? May I have your attention, fellow officers? Dear colleagues, it's over with motives. There's still 19 questions left to consider before 14 o'clock. Let's be patient. Please calm down. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the credit agreement is voted on, and the second project is the renovation of the Kiev-Chop road between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0258. Please vote. [[12:45:52]] For 389 The law's approved. Dear colleagues! We need to now consider returning to the consideration of the previously unsupported draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement, a project for the development of a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So I'm voting for a return to the draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement, a project to develop a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0218. Please vote. [[12:46:53]] For 246 We're back to looking at this document. Dear colleagues, we are. Maybe that's your will, we've listened to it twice in this session. Maybe we should put it to a vote because we have urgent government bills to consider. Is there no objection? I am voting on a draft law on the ratification of the loan agreement, a project to develop a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, registration number 0218. Please vote. Well, we listened to him twice. Well, I asked you, well, you agreed. [[12:47:43]] For 248 Decision taken. The law's approved. Ladies and gentlemen, we now need to consider a short-term bill -- this is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to prevent the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, and the financing of terrorism. Registration number 7180. Reporter: Head of the State Financial Monitoring Committee, Guru Sergey Grigorovich. Osik Sergey Grigorovitch will speak from the committee. No warning? Please, very briefly, three minutes. Yes, two Sergey Grigorovitch will be reporters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Bill 7180 proposed for your consideration is not a new law. The bill provides for changes to the existing Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Income, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 28, 2002. Two years of law enforcement confirms the correct decision to create a logical and transparent and effective system in Ukraine to combat the laundering of criminal incomes and the financing of terrorism. At this stage of society’s development, the laundering of criminal income and the financing of terrorism have ceased to be a problem for a particular country. Fighting this evil is an international problem that requires modern and effective methods. The changes to the basic law are based on the 1997 Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Confiscation of the Proceeds of Crime, ratified by the Supreme Council, the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, ratified by the Supreme Council in 2002, 40 recommendations and nine special FATF recommendations on combating terrorist financing. I want to go back four years and remind you that it is the lack of proper legislation, the regulation of the problem of the fight against the laundering of criminal income, that is the basis for the decision of the FATF in September to put Ukraine on the "black" list. Then there's economic sanctions. The two - month operation of these sanctions resulted in hundreds of broken contracts and hundreds of thousands of dollars lost in the profits of the owners, not to mention the corresponding international image of Ukraine. Following the release of Ukraine from the blacklist in February 2004, Ukraine is still in the process of active FATF monitoring as stated by President FatF, the only obstacle to the removal of this active monitoring is the improvement of Ukrainian legislation. Therefore, with a view to resolving the latest international trends in the area of crime laundering, Bill 7180 has been prepared and put in place for your consideration. I want to say that the bill is the result of the fruitful work of the new government. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill received a positive expert opinion from the Council of Europe, went through an expert study by the FATF group, received the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council on the adoption of it in the first reading, was considered on 6 committees and supported in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this bill so that by June 5 there will be a positive decision by the FAT to remove the active monitoring procedure from Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u105	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. What's the procedure? We're already in the process of dealing with the issue. Gmira, please, microphone. The chairman of the committee will be speaking now. Microphone, please, Sergey Gmiri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, in the vote on the previous issue, we have violated the Rules, and I want to stress not only the Rules, but also our decision just taken. We voted in favour of returning to consideration of this issue. Instead, we voted, we did not vote in favour of returning to the vote, voting. We voted in favour of returning to the issue. They voted a few minutes ago. Unfortunately, however, the issue has not been considered. I believe that this is a gross violation not only of the regulations, but also of our decision just taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, we voted for the first time to go back to the draft 246 votes and after saying we didn't have to discuss it, because we discussed it twice. Just a minute. We voted for this document to be adopted by 248 votes to two. Please, Sergey Burjak, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We all remember the circumstances under which the Ukrainian Law "On Prevention and Opposition Legalization of Proceeds by Crime" was developed and adopted. Given the strict pressure of FATF to have a principled and sometimes diametrically opposite position, both in government and in the Supreme Council, to the mechanisms introduced by this law, as well as any compromise decision, this law could not be perfect. [[on the terms of its decommissioning]] It has been nearly two years since it became effective. During this time, FATF approved a new edition of its recommendations on combating money laundering in June last year. During this time, Ukraine has gained some experience in applying this law. There is certainly an opportunity today to address the issue of changes and additions to it and a number of other legislative acts not only in terms of implementation of updated FATF recommendations, but also in the light of detected shortcomings and bottlenecks. I would like to emphasize that the fifth and sixth directives of the EES will be adopted this summer, which will form the basis for the new FATF recommendations. At the same time, the Committee on Finance and Banking would like to highlight some of the points of concern that we have. First. It is suggested that a special order of relations between politicians and primary financial monitoring entities, to which I am reminded, will apply not only to banks but also to reellers, notaries, lawyers, audiences, and so forth. [[This is the last part of article 1]] Not only nonresidents, as recommended by FATF, but Ukrainian citizens will be referred to. In doing so, these subjects of primary financial monitoring, when establishing relations with politicians and their families, are in paws, I quote from this law: "to take steps to recognize the origins of the income of such persons. Second, valid legislation provides that an authorized public authority in financial monitoring is to analyse information on financial transactions provided by primary financial monitoring entities. the developer is offered a radically different approach. That is, getting information not only about financial transactions but also about those who carry it out and their counterparties. Thirdly, one of the absolute priorities of the state, which has both a financial and economic and a significant social component, is the development of the housing market. At the same time, the bill foresees that all transactions in real estate purchases in excess of 80,000 dollars, I emphasize only 80,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u109	Please, if you don't mind if I finish my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u110	At the same time, the bill foresees that all transactions in real estate purchases that exceed 80,000 dollars are subject to mandatory financial monitoring, which is the third. Fourth, the amendments to Article 10 provide that public financial monitoring authorities should take steps in accordance with legislation to prevent entities from being administered by primary financial supervision of direct or ordered ownership of the right to have a substantial share in such entities of persons who are unrepentant or who have not been removed in the established order of justice, as well as the formation of statutory capitals of such entities on the basis of incomes of the source of origin that cannot be established. We had such a difficult discussion about this law. But I would like to point out that this bill is introduced by the President of Ukraine, and I remind him that he is urgently required to go through, so we invite the Supreme Council to consider and support this bill in the first reading with the aim of perfecting it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u111	Yes. Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich, sit down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Puzakov Vladimir, Communist faction. We've got two for, two for. Prepare for the presentation to Czernowetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u112	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It is commendable that the Criminal Code proposes to complement the provision of criminal responsibility for financing terrorism. But I think there is a need to significantly expand the list of primary financial monitoring objects. In doing so, relying on these entities to carry out financial monitoring tasks requires the simultaneous expansion of the powers of the public authorities to carry out appropriate regulation and supervision. Working with the necessary facts and detecting criminal income-laundering schemes provides for certain elements of financial investigation, with financial intelligence having to have direct access on a regular basis to the financial, administrative and law enforcement information necessary there for the performance of its functions. Today, more than 3,000 reports of financial transactions involving money laundering or terrorist financing are being received daily. The exclusive value under these conditions is the export of capital abroad, which has been increasing lately. For example, according to U.N.B. data published in 2000, Ukraine was cleared of $385 million in equity, in 2001, $898 million and in 2003 almost 2.5 billion in equity. There is also constant information about the laundering of funds by Ukrainian businesses and citizens, and only a year later, a group of criminals named Kharkiv was able to wash up to $5 million. A group of directors of several commercial structures that have washed over 15 million dollars in Ivano-Francisco, through weightless operations and fictitious calculations. It is estimated that between 40 and 60 percent of the country’s financial resources rotate in the shadow sector. The bill would like to enter into force, and all those involved in the laundering of dirty money were eventually punished. This is what will happen, Mr. President, to fulfill at least one of your promises on the Maidan Independence that bandits should be in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u113	Leonid Chernewicki, the faction of "Our Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. First of all, I want to say that the President has even exceeded the rule that bandits should be in prison. And that's not the law at all. I want to tell you what's amazing about this law. First, we need to find out the fourth generation of a political figure, and in general, when a person comes to the bank, we need to know for sure that he is not a bridesmaid, a godfather, a holy communist there, for example, or someone else. And if you didn't find out he was a pimp there or someone, then three to six, they tied it up and took it away. Which is why there's a regular full-time servant here who could be a communist of ideology to get him to jail. The one who framed this law and instructed me to say it, the great politician Yuri Anatolevich Karmazin, the Vitchini Defenders' Party, was the one who framed the President. And I wrote it, by the way, Mr. Osik together. It's from the old guard of the same. And a person who has no accounts in Ukraine. I do not like the fact that such people are the authors of laws that are then submitted to someone from the presidential services as a matter of priority. It's a bad, bad law. The first thing the President has to do together, if he joins with the communists, is to make all the employees declare their earnings, whether they are members of Parliament or the Cabinet of Ministers or whatever. And there is no law in Ukraine! Everyone has to tell us where he got that money. Here I live, for example, in a land where billions of dollars have already been set up by ministers of all kinds, including some. Huh? Here! The people have nothing to live for! That's the problem. That's what we have to decide, isn't it? And the law itself has drawn my attention to Yuri Anatolevich, according to the conclusion of scientific and expert management, is unacceptable because he denies the need to complete 209 articles once and for all. And that's not true what my banking colleague said. Second, it does not take into account the relevant provisions of the general criminal code. It's a disgrace to have a bill like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u115	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Yuri Solomatin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u116	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to celebrate two moments, perhaps not even as legal as political in nature. We're looking at a bill with such a very delicate issue in place where we're not so often being reproached for some rude place in the world ratings. More than a year ago, Ukraine was excluded from the blacklist of countries that avoided cooperation in the fight against money laundering. Today we are taking the next step -- we are improving our legislation according to the international legal requirements of cooperation in this area, we are doing what we have been urged to do, and we have finally responded. And that means that we're acquiring a new quality as a civilized and predictable society. The extent to which this can be done and how it will be done in practice depends on whether the plenary will stop the process of further monitoring of Ukraine. Unpleasant monitoring. In case of positive answers, the question may be considered, as was said, in June of this year. As to the substance of the proposed changes to a wide range of acts of current legislation, it is to be expected that detailed articles on domestic participants and mechanisms for regulating their activities will be a tangible help to our specialists. They will contribute to the systematic overlap of the channels of money laundering that are used in a criminal way, and they will also contribute to the potential. More specifically, they will deny and prevent the financing of terrorism, which has become a real transnational source of threats. By supporting the adoption bill in the first reading, I think we should consider two proposals. The first relates to article 209 of the Criminal Code. The authors propose an additional novelty of punishment for unlawful acts in the form of imposition, and I quote, "a fine in the value of property that is the subject of crime in the event of the inability to confiscate it," the end of the quote. I think the phrase "in the value of property" is very arbitrary, and it's a secretion of options, and therefore of abuse. Perhaps it would be appropriate to specify the qualification, namely, "at market prices, auction prices" or in some other way, but really more transparent and more controlled way. As with me, logic requires after the words "punished by being deprived of liberty for three to six years with no rights and so on," here and there, to continue to add "after punishment" and then after the text, to "engage certain positions" or to engage in activity for so many years. It's also worth polishing off editorial sins, for example, that ensure anonymity, and probably anonymity, and so forth. It's easier to write bills. In general, I offer to accept it in the first reading and to work before the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Let us again hear what this law is called. This is a whole poem about the introduction to some nine, precise, legislative acts of Ukraine on the prevention of legalization. [[Parentheses Around]] [[laundering of proceeds obtained by crime and financing of terrorism]] What's more, we haven't touched this terrorism yet, but we're laundering the money we've been given in the criminal way every day. Similarly, we need to focus on this. Let the United States of America fight with Russia in Putin-Eltcin, with terrorism. First of all, let's take a look at the state's criminal revenues that are being washed away! This bill is designed to improve legislation on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, taking into account the new edition, forty recommendations already exist! - FATF money-laundering teams want to go down after all this! Keep going. Three drafts of similar content have already been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Government of Ukraine on September 24, 2003, issue 4190. It was called off. On March 15, 2004, the registration number 4190-1 was not accepted. Once again, the Cabinet of Ministers of November 9, 2004 at registration number 6319 -- the project was re-rescinded. But this project is already more perfect, it's got all the hidden flaws that were in previous projects, and now it's covering up new flaws. And I want to call these defects. The first flaw. Let's agree that crows don't turn their eyes. And second, why is the new orange power so angry against the old blue and white power? Because the thief stole the oak. What should we do? All the robberies to the prisons, let's accept the call for an orange revolution. But not only those who are now being declared from the side of the blue and white, but also those oranges that have come out of the bush's nest. So the conclusion is that ownership and power will be restored to the people, and only in this case will there be no such mess as is laid down in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we have a draft decree on the non-admissibility of the draft law. The author of the draft decision is Leonid Chernewický. According to the Rules, he has a right to be reasoned. Is Leonid Mikhailovich here?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u120	You don't? However, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I am putting to the vote, please note, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of the draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism. Oh? Take it off the vote. Well, we were just waiting for you to come along. Please. A draft ruling, a justification for your inadmissibility of the draft law that we're currently considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u121	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It's fair and noble that you reminded me of this law and some other laws that want a revolutionary way, well, with a hand on it, to take and destroy our only emerging economy. It's not patriotic. And whoever's filing these papers is going to end it sooner or later. But I think that's a problem because I didn't say anything about it to the President, even though I'm an expert in banking. They shouldn't be responsible for things like this, right? Usual employees of the normal system. This is the way to totalitarianism, this is the way to ruin the arrival of foreign bourgeois banks, for non-performing people, this is the way to break our banking system, including for your beloved Bank of Ukraine. [[That's me talking to the Communists.]] Because they're all going to be transplanted and we're just going to carry them around. From three to six years, we don't know why. In fact, who is the ideology of this law? A man who was expelled from the Ministry of Economics at Kuchma. And it's a great idea. It was thrown out of there, like, if you'll excuse me, from one place to another. Therefore, I believe that you will manifest patriotism if we vote now, and you will support me for the inadmissibility of this law, so that we can give the whole hospital a message about what we want now, and I am drafting such a bill, and you can prepare it, and we can bring together a working group to fight corruption in Ukraine. The first stage is, of course, the legalization of the income of all absolute ministers, the chiefs of the CHEK, every head of administration, village councils and others. That's what we have to do. He's taking a million dollars in Vysgorod for land allocation and living in peace and no legalization, nothing at all, at the expense of the locals. What's going on in Kiev? They're building their heads here, my constituents, at home, right on their heads in a literal sense. What are we silent about? And who's behind it? And why don't we evaluate it? That would be great. Support me for inadmissibility, and it'll be patriotic and right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I took the floor for reasons, because here they said that the scientific expertise would, in principle, agree. If this is an agreement, if there is a project on 10 pages destroyed and it is written on page 7: the proposal to supplement the Criminal Code by article 258 does not take into account the existence of the relevant provisions of the general criminal code, and therefore reflects an unscientific approach to the formation of the norms of a particular part and is unacceptable. The same is true of article 209 of the new part of Supplement 1.1. And I'm so, so full of it, I'm so ashamed, as one of the authors of the Criminal Code, it's very embarrassing that we want to spoil it so bad right now. So I ask you to support the proposal of the Chernewsky and not support this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism is put to the vote. Registration number 7180/P. Out of the hall. [[do not hear the microphone]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u125	Because Karmazin has that kind of determination. As you wish, please. [[13:16:15.]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Before the bill is put to the vote, please write down the motive for three minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Motivated: Yuri Carmazin. Well, you've already made a statement. Can you pass it on to someone, Yuri Anatolyevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u126	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, God knows better than anyone. That's why I dropped it. Ladies and gentlemen, for the fourth time, this bill is being put into effect now, in fact, in an unalterable form. I would ask all interested people and I would like to turn from this high rostrum to the Ambassador of the United States of America to apply all my influence to clarify in the United States and to clarify, to the Ambassador of the Russian Federation, to clarify in their country that there is no terrorism in Ukraine and there will never be. First. And second. I ask them to properly and adequately study our Ukrainian legislation, which provides opportunities, all the possibilities to fight everything they call upon us to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u127	Oleg Zarubinski, then Vitaly Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u128	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Let us, my fellow Members, agree that in this bill a number of innovations detail the issue of control and primary monitoring of the income of legal and natural persons. Who can speak out against this? Obviously, who does not want to be the subject of this monitoring. On the other hand, once again, I want to emphasize that this is really an imperfect bill. For example, issues of concern to the faction of the People’s Party are the possibilities of preventing abuse of power in the application of the proposed system of action. We have questions about what the interaction of different audit and monitoring structures should be like, how will we address the issue of avoiding possible duplication from the various verifications involved in these monitoring measures. But once again, I would like to emphasize the position of our faction that occurred in the course of my speech, that before the second reading, we can work clearly enough on these procedures and improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u129	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Dear friends, I'd like to say that this is the phrase in the report that this bill seems to have received a positive assessment in the Council of Europe. As a member of the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe, I don't remember at all when it was an evaluation and I didn't see it, but I would like to say that the Council of Europe still has a debate about terrorism and the definition of that word. So today we can't apply it and say whether there's terrorism in the country or not, because it's a phenomenon that's still controversial in its definition today. And the second. I wanted to say that if we look at the work of our expert management, we'll see that it's really strange. Or in our second reading, we can remove so many objections there. So my proposal from the faction probably has to be held back in order to do more precisely, right up to the first reading, so that there's no argument in the second reading, we didn't make any slaps that don't match our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u131	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u132	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head, dear colleagues. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party supports an ideology aimed at combating the laundering of dirty money. And we support the adoption of the bill in the first reading. On the other hand, we would like to see that the draft laws that are being tabled in Parliament and defined as urgent have more perfection than this bill that we are currently considering. So the faction of the People's Ukrainian Party, in support of essentially defined definitions, supports the draft in the first reading. We believe that this is the way we should go if we really want to look in the eyes of the world society as a normal, consistent state that is struggling with the laundering of dirty money, which does not want to finance terrorism, which now poses a major threat to the life and peaceful coexistence of all fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u133	Deputy Prime Minister Roman Petrovich Immortal, please. The final position of the government in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Obviously this is one of the key themes of today's financial discipline management system. And obviously, from the point of view of yesterday, the question that we were considering, the introduction of Ukraine to the GAT SOT, and today we have ratified the credit line under the Kiev-Chop program -- all of this has a direct bearing on this law. Clearly, the most difficult part of the law is the administration of all of these issues. And remember whether the adoption of the previous edition of this law, or today's, we will constantly stumble on this problem, how to administer the issue, how to make that funding not an instrument of political persecution. Obviously, we're always going to be asking this internal problem when we're talking about any elements of this question. Clearly, this is not just a debate for us, it's a debate for the European Union, it's a debate for the creation of an administrative system that works in Ukraine in general. Dear colleagues, our proposal is government: let's adopt the law in the first reading, then with the involvement of international financial organizations, we will take the appropriate steps to work out the drafting of this law, which will avoid the negatives that the Czervetsky deputy has been talking about. As a result of this work, we first show that Ukraine is going through the fight against illegal incomes, on the other hand, we're going to work out a model that won't allow administrative leverage to be used for financial flows. Please accept on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, please, I beg you, calm down, please. Well, you can't abuse it. Well, you're a very tolerant person, you've spoken five times about it. Moreover, it is written in the Rules if the deputy’s name is named. Roman Petrovich has already appointed a deputy. Dear colleagues, please, come on! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the prevention of the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism, registration number 7180, is put to the vote for adoption as a basis in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:24:24]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. There's a committee proposal, and it sounded like we're going to re-read it to work with the government along with a committee that takes into account the proposals, the conclusions that are included in the conclusion of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. No warning? The proposal to re-read the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism is put to the vote. Registration number 7180. Please vote. [[13:25:17]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken, the law is rejected. Dear colleagues, we need to include two draft laws into the agenda and make appropriate decisions, that is, consider them. This is a draft law amending Ukraine's customs tariff, registration number 7354. A proposal to include Ukraine's daily draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff is put to the vote. Registration number 735, please vote for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:26:08]] For 199 Yes, please, Minister of Economics microphone, microphone, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, Your Honor, they'll be here soon. Well, now the minister will explain the importance of this law, you'll be there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u136	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. This is the third tranche of laws that change customs tariffs. And so this is about putting them at a rational economic level, not about reducing them, not leaving them at the past level, not just increasing them, there are all sorts of solutions to these issues. We ask you to consider this bill in the first reading. It's very important. It's a bill that deals with raw materials, electrical engineering, machine building, which is what makes up the real part of the Ukrainian economy. So I would like to agree to consider this bill today in the first reading. Dear colleagues, since there was a minister's explanation, there was a minister's explanation to consider this problem, I would like to put it to a vote, please! [[What, do we vote?]] Who would like to go back to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine, registration number 7354, please vote. To return to inclusion, please let's vote, vote. [[13:28:03]] For 261 Decision taken. I'll put it to a vote. Don't relax, dear fellows. - raises the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the customs tariff of Ukraine, registration number 7354. Please vote. [[13:28:32]] For 271 We've put the questions in the agenda, we're moving on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, Minister of Economics Sergey Teryohin is invited to report. Such a schedule is proposed, please pay attention! - five minutes to report, five minutes to answer the question to the reporter. The coconspirator will give three minutes for the report and hold a discussion within 15 minutes. No warning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national deputies, the adoption of the proposed bill is due to the fact that today, in the customs tariff on goods and products imported into customs territory, specific import duty rates are in place at the actual prohibited level, as well as uniform goods tariffs with significant differentiation, which causes external entities to abuse the classification of goods, reduce customs value, evade taxes in full volume, and create grounds for corruption on the customs border. A clear example of the economic insignificance of official imports of goods is the active rate of import duties on computer technology, ranging from 0.1 percent to 200 euros per item. Thus, on the system blocks the current 200 euros per item exceeds the customs value of 3.2 times. Thus, according to official data, 53 pieces of computer blocks were imported into Ukraine last year. For calculators and calculating machines, the current rate of import duty varies from 10 to 20 percent, and for electronic calculators at a commercial position 84. 701.01.000 sets a specific import duty rate of 4.5 euros/piece, which is 2J5 above the customs value. Thus, only 2,000 of these calculators were imported into Ukraine on official data. And other counting machines with an import duty rate of 4 euros per item have not been legally imported. I can tell you that in the last year, about half a million imports of these calculators were sold from commercial companies. The presence of such a level of import duty makes legal imports of goods into the territory of Ukraine unprofitable, leading to the growth of smuggled goods that come without payment of duties and other taxes. This results in losses both to the State budget and to the domestic producer, as the shadow scheme for imports of goods makes it much cheaper. The project is designed to reduce import duty rates, set full rates at the level of the benefits, and in many cases replace specific and combined rates at the ad valorem shop with 54 commodity groups of the customs tariff, which is 56 percent of its product nomenclature. The proposed bill does not include all excise goods belonging to subgroup 27.10 — gasoline, individual goods of groups 62, 63 — undergarments, 64 — shoes, 84, 85, since the change in rates is stipulated by Ukrainian law already adopted by Supreme Council No. 2470. In commodity positions where the current level of import duty is below or corresponding to the Ukrainian tariff offer, there is no provision for changes in import duty rates. To carry out the protocol mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers as of April 2, this year, the bill was finalized and taken into account by the Ministry of Industry, primarily by the Ministry of Industrial Policy. I'm not going to count all the changes that have been made, they're fully agreed on the Customs Council. Numerous negotiations were held with business subjects to prevent the collapse of protectionist policies in Ukraine. On a financial and economic basis. In 2004, imported into this nomenclature, which is now being proposed for $25.3 billion in goods. At the same time, the import volume of the goods from which the customs duty is made up of $20.8 billion or 82 percent of the imported goods. The average weighted rate of import duty in the whole bill after reviewing the rate rate falls by 3.2 percent of the total, and in some places it increases, I'll say a little bit further. As a result, actual imports of direct revenue from the state budget are falling by $500 million. But in our estimate, it's not legally imported into positions like this that I've just told you, it's only at the value added tax rate that the government budget will increase by about $200 million, and after legalization by about $400 million, $420 million per customs. As a result of the cancellation of taxes on imported goods. The budget under this nomenclature is expected to be replenished by approximately $50 million in additional amounts. Prognosis. The adoption of the law will have an impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u138	Please, 30 seconds to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u139	Thank you. It will affect the cessation of widespread smuggling into Ukrainian customs territory, the establishment of transparent conditions for external economic activity and stability for the consumer market in Ukraine. I would like to point out that there was a protocol meeting yesterday between the Ministry of Economics and the Committee on Finance and Banking, where we discussed a question. This is a change in the customs approach to support our car complex. The Ministry of Economics and the Customs Council agree on a position to raise duties on ready cars at a position, light cars at 8703 by 5%, to a level of 25%. With regard to the proposal of the Committee on Finance to include some 80 positions in the first reading of the Industrial Collection, where zeros are placed, or small customs taxes, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to consider this, to agree with this, but, without violating the procedure, to consider this next week in the Customs and Tariff Board and to make this in the second reading. Thank you for your attention and would like to support the position of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u140	Questions, dear fellows, are there? Please sign in. A question on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u141	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland, reverend Sergey Anatoliyovich. I'm happy that the government finally realized that it's not necessary to completely destroy the car building, but there were proposals to install imported customs into ready-made cars for 15% to reduce import duty rates for components such as power generators, bridges, frames, chassis, body parts. In order to maintain balance so that our jobs are not reduced today, there are some 80,000 people in Ukraine. You, as the minister of economy, have to be interested in this, because you know that with the adoption of the State Budget Act, a lot of popular nonsense has been done. I repeat that word: popular nonsense. Are you in favor of my position? Is it not? I would fully support your position now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u142	Thank you, I'd like to show you, I don't understand what popular nonsense is. It's either stupid or it's not there, and what's there is another question. So I can show you, Mr. Carmazin, on the five-page offer of automobile kits. In order to deal with each of them, they came about as a result of the negotiating process between Mineconomy and the Committee on Finance. In order to process it and conduct it through the Customs Tariff Board, and in accordance with the Customs Code, you know that this procedure needs to be clearly sustained, we need time. So it's clear that the general direction of movement is what you say it is. But what's going to be there, what's going to be the calculations, we're going to put the economy into each production, and then we're going to let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u143	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u144	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, I may not have understood it a little bit, but from your repeated reports it is clear that the main element of the fight against smuggling is duty. I mean, it seems like we're done with smuggling, and now we're starting at the beginning of the moment. What does that mean? Because smuggling is a criminal offence and we have to fight it all the time. And we're going to reduce or we're not going to, the smuggling is going to stay. How can we understand this emphasis? But not once, you're saying that smuggling is that much money, and now we're going to reduce or increase it, and we're not going to have smuggling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Well, that's one side of the medal. There are two sides. The first is the administrative side that needs to change. And the second is the fiscal side, and that's the bribe. I can say that only 2.6 percent of the positions that you remember, we accepted at TMP a reduction in the rate of duty, the budget received 143 percent of the planned income in the first quarter. I mean, obviously, legalization came out, but that's not enough, you're absolutely right. You know that today, according to the Contrabanda Stop program, mobile groups are operating in the inter-branch where there's an HQ, where there's a D.A., where there's a CRU. And where there are economists who do these, you know, flying checks, and the most corrupt or smuggled customs crossings. And I can tell you that it has a very big effect. That is why we must do so, and so we must do so. But there can't be a duty that's 3.2 times the customs value. Really? So that's the reason for the smuggling.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u146	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, of course, the solution to the problems faced by the government and the desire to provide ways to strengthen its tasks force the government to act quickly and persistently. You're proposing changes that, in most cases, I don't think are well-founded. In my opinion, most of the measures that you have proposed are not supported by predictable calculations either. So that's the question. Does the government have a concept regarding this bill, or does it at least see the effects of changing so many changes to the customs tariff? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u148	Thank you very much. It's you, you know, old suspicions. The point is that in every position and sub-position, negotiations were held with the ministries of the field. I have signed protocols in every position, which then went to the Customs Tariff Council, and the Customs Tariff Council is a collegiate body in which there is no pressure on Minprom or MinAPK, let's say. Because we accept it by consensus, and then we take it to the Cabinet of Ministers. So all of these economics of these processes are written down. We didn't include, the only thing I said was that we didn't include in this bill the automobile issue. That's why we didn't count the economy there. We counted roughly when the State Budget was adopted, and secretly, I'll tell you that the Ministry of Economics had a slightly different position than was adopted in the State Budget Act. And the representatives of the automobile complex can confirm what I said. So it's all been verified, let's say, at 8485, it's a machine for the processing of agriculture and parts for it. So where it's not produced in Ukraine, the zero that's produced in Ukraine -- there's no prohibition rate, but there's a rate that allows competition on equal terms. This is how we approach every position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u149	Yes, thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich, a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, is invited to the report. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue our work for 15 minutes. In addition to this bill, we will have another important consideration to consider. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. Registration number 7354. The Ukrainian Minister's office requires the introduction of the bill by the fact that today, at the customs tariff of Ukraine on goods and products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, specific import duty rates are in place at the virtually prohibited level, as well as tariffs on uniform goods with significant differentiation, which causes external and economic operators to abuse the classification of goods, reduce their customs value and avoid paying taxes in full. The bill provides for reduced import duty rates, full rates at the level of the benefits, and in many cases for the replacement of specific and combined rates. 54 customs duty groups, which account for 56 percent of its trade nomenclature. The draft law does not include all the excise goods belonging to subgroup 2110, these are gasoline, individual goods of groups 6263, 64, these are shoes, 8485 as the change in rates is foreseen by the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Customs Tariff of Ukraine, which was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 March 2005. In the commercial position at which the current level of import duty is below or corresponding to Ukraine’s associated consolidated offer as part of its introduction to WTO does not provide for a change in the rates of import duty. The goods of the groups reflected in the bill are subject to the establishment of import duty rates at the 2004 level, which are fixed by Ukraine's consolidated tariff proposal as part of its entry into WTO. This rate level was established by Ukraine's consolidated tariff proposal as part of the WTO entry was approved at a meeting of the Customs Tariff Board, Protocol 58 of May 22, 2003. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 20 April 2005 reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. The main scientific and expert office supports this bill, taking into account conclusions, observations and suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u151	Yes, thank you, too, Anatoly Ivanovich, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We made a deal with you for 15 minutes. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", is invited to prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, faction of Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Today, the people are tired of us constantly making changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff on the one hand, and on the other hand, we need to do so. But I call on the government to deal with the complexity of the issue, in particular, to bring you, honourable government officials, back to the issue of agricultural production. I'm glad you finally listened to your sanity and agreed that 600 euros per meat and 400 per bird. This gives hope and hope that our producers will be protected. But I'd still like to predict, as predicted, at least 300,000 tons. This would give confidence to farmers on tomorrow. Also in view of the disastrous situation in the automobile sector as a result of the cancellation of all the incentives provided by legislation for Ukrainian automobile manufacturers, it is necessary to immediately implement compensation measures, such as a review of import duty rates on basic composite vehicles. I'm pleased with the response of Economy Minister Sergey Teryochyn, but -- I suggest that this enters into the transcript -- that we set the import duty on ready cars for 15 percent, because the lower level is not suitable for the development of production, because it makes economically appropriate exclusively big knots, i.e. open folding. For example, setting a higher point for the body, for example, 20 percent, as the government now suggests, is premature, since enterprises that move gradually to the full-scale production of cars need a transitional period during which they will have to use the imported basic components. I also propose to reduce import duty rates for other components used in car manufacturing to one or two percent, especially for power generators, because motors and gearboxes have been developed by countries for decades, and that goes to billions. We don't have that kind of money right now. Bridges, body parts, frames, chassis, and I also propose to reduce import duty rates to zero in basic special materials and products used in car manufacturing. This is true of automobile glass, plastic parts, and other products. By the way, this is a matter of the safety of our citizens during accidents. We can't make a car glass right now. But if we had a vice-premier in industry, he would probably be doing where we have zero positions to make us in Ukraine. This is my proposal to the government for reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u153	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a Communist faction, has a word. Eugene Kirilchuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u154	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The government of capitalist ministers has submitted to us a new tuft called the draft law of Ukraine amending Ukraine's customs tariff. What beautiful words there are: replacement of combined or specific customs rates., list of these groups, etc. But if we take to heart the findings of the scientific management, it says: 1. One of the generalised disadvantages of the duty rates is that they are significantly greater than combined or specific to the breach of customs rules in the form of undervaluation of the customs value of goods. I'm asking a question. Where, on which customs and who is in line to steal and take bribes, there is a new scheme. Next. According to the requirements, there should be information on what the budget will have from an economic point of view, where we will have cuts in the budget, and where will the increase be? The Scientific and Experimental Authority states that the reduction in the government's revenue for customs payments is more than $500 million. But together with what we get in return, it's only a minimum cost of $50 million. That's why I'm asking the next question in our venerable orange government, the government of capitalist ministers. Who's going to steal $450 million? I understand that in the government, the order that exists in this regard is hidden. But this is where we, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are going to see this through the vote, the factions that are voting for this project, the bill, they are already. In turn, their government reps to get a paw on a bribe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u155	Eugene Ivanovich Kirilczuk, a faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. Eugene Gorenik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u156	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. In spite of the previous speech, I want to say that whoever does not vote in favour of the order of the customs, he wants to preserve the state of the theft of Ukraine, the smuggling that has existed so far. In confirmation, I want to say that we've only slightly improved the customs rules on the border, and today we're going to go 2.5 times as high as that on the same day last year or in the last government that the previous speaker stands for. Now I want to specify one of the facts. I went to Lutsk to wash the car, stood next to me, washed an ex-officer and said, "Dear MPs! So you cut from five grand to a three-wheel drive, and I'm going to put these three thousand not in my pocket, not in my pocket, but in my budget, which is our poor people for social reasons, because five I can't pay, that's not real, because that's more than I bought that car. Here's an example. And the government is now reducing it by just 3 percent, so it's sort of sorting the import of goods so that there's something unreal that it can pay, and what's undervalued, it's possible to put our Ukrainian standard into a European standard, depending on the protection of its manufacturer. The right direction, the right thoughts, the results are already, so why not support these good beginnings of our government? And I think the Minister of Economics said very faithfully, we accept in the first reading today, we're allowing each of the deputies to add their thoughts and suggestions, we're going to take a closer look at the profile committee, and we're going to go to the Council again, and then another question, to the second reading, when these bets are defined, we can clearly say the balance of income to the budget. Because today it won't be possible. And I think he will, and he will be positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u157	Eugene Gorenik, the "Our Ukraine" faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare for Sergienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, we really deserve the attention of trying to organize customs tariffs and trying to fight smuggling. Warns another: How does this happen? Nevertheless, the subject is related to the income of the state budget of Ukraine and according to the Budget Code, legislation must be set before the adoption of the budget. In proposing changes in customs tariffs, the government predicts that income reductions will not and will not make any adjustments to the budget, but it does warn about its argument. The loss of some 500 million at the reduction of customs tariffs is planned to be compensated for by the removal of VAT in the course of further circulation. Knowing the status of our value added tax seems to be a very risky operation. I'm counting on the fact that the government is still responsible for the income part of the budget, it has the right to take such risks. But the question is, why, when changes were made to the budget, when customs tariffs were changing, there were no changes, and now we're doing it in the process. Once again, cautioning, asking questions about budget implementation. On the other hand, the government's proposed measures are always saying that there will be lower prices in the internal market. Unfortunately, this trend has not yet been observed and can be seen at food prices. At the same time, the past decreases in duties and excise duties on petrol and petroleum products. Well, it will actually lead to a reduction in the yield of the special fund. We're here borrowing roads and at the same time reducing our potential income. As a result, I feel that such a practice is negative, and if it can be stopped, it must be stopped. On the other hand, too much of the proposed changes can be analyzed so quickly. Therefore, the bill can only be adopted in the first reading with a detailed analysis of all positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u159	Leonid Sergienko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u160	Dear head, distinguished national MPs. We realize that the need to adopt this bill is based on the need to ensure that international obligations are fulfilled, but we must not forget the obligation of our domestic producer. So after studying this bill in detail, there are many questions. And many members of the Socialist faction will amend this bill. Today, the main distortion that exists is the introduction of zero-rate rates and in some cases it decreases from 40 percent to zero. The World Trade Organization, the European Society, does not oblige us to reduce them immediately to zero. That's what's going to happen to the budget, and it's going to hurt our Ukrainian producer. So there's a proposal that, just like joining the WTO, and meeting all of our commitments, today you can cut the stakes some to 6, to 3 percent, but not 0, and everyone will win. On the other hand, there's a lot of raw materials that aren't produced in Ukraine today because our businesses have long lost their competitiveness and don't upgrade their equipment parks. To that end, bets should be introduced into raw materials that are not produced in Ukraine, agree with them, as well as equipment that is not produced in Ukraine. This will support the domestic manufacturer. Therefore, in the first reading, a bill can be adopted. And we talked to the Minister of Economics. I think by working on it in many ways, we're going to find a common solution, and in the second reading, it's going to be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, let's have two speakers here. In a minute. Andrew Schlell and the Verethennikov. I'm just a recorded, respected colleague, I say. You just sounded the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that, in principle, the bill, I would say that you could not only consider it in the first reading. But there are still some warnings. And the main thing is that we have to keep regulating two things over and over again, is our own production and imported goods. That's all that matters. Because this bill requires careful study. But I don't understand why we have to put this in a long box all the time in the first reading. And so I'd like to propose that I set myself up with the deadline for the next vote in the second reading. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u163	please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u164	Dear colleagues. Victor Weretennikov, a faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs What the government is showing us today is a new means of customs legislation that we generally support. It is, I think it's good. But as early as October last year, I passed Bill 6263, which coincides with and forms a separate part of this government bill. This bill was approved by the Ministry of Economics and our legal service of the Supreme Council. I won't say, because I've only been given a minute, I won't say what I'm talking about. I'll tell you what I'd like to say. We have tires in Ukraine today. If the tire is new, it pays so much for the euro, and if the tire is old, it goes zero. And what does this lead to? This leads to mass smuggling. Have you seen the old tires that were already in use in Ukraine from abroad? They're not brought. But they're running documents saying they're old tires, because they're old tires.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u165	Yes, thank you. Well, 20 seconds, please. You're reporting another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u166	Yeah. And what I'm saying is that it's necessary for the old tires to bet the old ones that were in use to be given the same as the new ones. And then there will be no smuggling, and then our factories in Ukraine will be running, and there will be money in the budget. Please take this into account by the government. And in general, I support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, please mobilize for the vote. Invite the deputies to the session room. Please don't whistle, because I won't have the money. Yes, honourable colleagues, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Tariff of Ukraine. Registration number 7354. Please vote. [[14:04:01]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We have to take one more document, we have time to work. This is the inclusion in the agenda, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. [[I'm asking you to focus, please.]] [[on socio-cultural objects]] Registration number 7153. I'm voting on the proposal to include this project in the agenda, 7153. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:04:47]] For 219 Well, we haven't been able to vote! Dear colleagues, let's vote, we've worked so hard. Please note who would like to return to the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. [[on socio-cultural objects]] Registration number 7153. Please vote. [[14:05:24]] For 260 Decision taken. Let's ask the author of the bill to outline the basic positions on the law, and then we'll define and take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u168	I'm very short. Dear comrades, distinguished colleagues! I think you're familiar with this problem, we've passed the concession law, it's a necessary law. The Act has also included socio-cultural objects that may be transferred to the concession. And that's the concept that includes cultural and recreational parks, that is, recreational zones. We are faced with the fact that today the only place in large cities, and not only in large cities, where people can rest, breathe fresh air, in fact, free of charge, are cultural and leisure parks, and they fall under concessions, under these terms. This situation is pointless because the concession, by definition, implies the mutual benefit of local authorities and concessionaires. How can this benefit be obtained? Only profit that will be derived from these resting places. Where can profits come from if there is a strong business that generates high incomes? Why are they tall? Because the concessionaire will have to return his investment, he will have to pay the cost of the concession, and, of course, he will not get any profit without it. Thus, this law creates conditions for cultural and recreational parks to become high-income areas. This is unrealistic today, at least because the cost of the concession depends on the cost of the core funds. And the cost of the core funds is 70 to 80 per cent of the value of green plantings. So it's not possible to actually get revenue out of there except for one way out: to cut down trees, build parks there, build water parks there, that is to say, to develop business activity. That is, we will deprive people of the opportunity to rest peacefully in the green areas, to breathe fresh air and actually deprive them of the opportunity to enjoy this pleasure free of charge. I therefore propose to exclude from the list of objects subject to concession those objects of socio-cultural purpose, as proposed by the Scientific and Expert Office, which are located in the recreational zones. So you can give concessions to objects of "social and cultural purpose, except for those located in recreational zones." This is the final edition proposed by the Scientific and Expert Office. I ask not only to vote on first reading but also to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the committee fully supports this bill. You don't have any warnings? It doesn't, does it? Therefore, respectable colleagues. There's a warning, now we're going to listen to Yuri Anatoliovich -- we're going to vote. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. One minute. Members, please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u170	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor because, in fact, according to the law, recreational objects are recreational parks, and other places for organized mass recreation can be passed on to concessions. Moreover, the experience of occupied Odessa showed that six acres [6 ha] of Shevchenka Park was dedicated to housing projects to store and store millions and millions. And just now, the new government under the leadership of the mayor of Odessa of the new Gurwicz has canceled -- and six hectares have returned to Shevchenka Park. That's the first one. As far as concessions are concerned, the refinement that Alla Alexandrovska has just said should be written as proposed by the Science and Experimental Department. It supports, it confirms that it supports. That is to say, "Using socio-cultural objects, except for those in recreational zones." If that's the case, she agrees, and I agree, and science-expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u171	Well, the author agrees with the draft law. Okay. Deputy Minister Vladimir Anatoliyovich Ignashenko, Deputy Minister of Economics, one minute position for the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u172	The government doesn't support this law because we gave an example of an aquarium. That is, the government defines a specific list of objects that can be used in concessions, concession conditions, and very clearly deal with concession contracts. And so these conditions may involve the necessary investments, the tiredness of the organization, the rest of the people themselves. With proper control, therefore, it is not advisable and absolutely unnecessary to exclude the possibility of investing in the development of people’s recreation under strict control of the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u173	Yes. Please, Alla Alexandrowski, the author of the project. And then Demjochin's microphone from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! Article 3 of the Concession Act refers to facilities that may be awarded to concessions. Concessions may be subject to public or municipal property rights. The parks, recreation cultures that are located in urban areas are communal property and they are managed by local authorities, local councils, city councils. There are objects that belong to public property, I am not talking about them, we are talking about those objects that are located in the zones and that are subject to regulation by local councils. Therefore, I will ask, what falls within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, you will and will decide as you have decided. I recall once again that these are recreational parks that are owned by the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u175	The government is already in agreement. Demyochin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee supports this bill, but what I wish to say. Specialty is the secret privatization of the best lands we have today in Ukraine. And you can't let that happen because under the concession, first the concession, then suddenly it's not our land anymore. Look where the parks are, they're the best, the most expensive places. There are other forms where water parks and other attractions can be envisaged and influenced by the State and local councils not to allow this degree of influence. We therefore ask for the support of this bill as a whole, as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u177	Please, Bezpalan, and we will vote to make a full compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u178	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The very discussion that is taking place in the hall shows what? What's the problem. So you can vote in the first reading. At the same time, it shows that there is no clear understanding of the text, that then we can create legal problems. This is a property - related issue. As an MP representing one of the largest cities, the city of Kiev, I can say that for us this question, for Kiev, is specific and relevant. So the position is that after the first reading, I'll send it according to our rules, and I'll use my right here as a national deputy, to second reading, to clarify all the legal points, all the formulations. I insist and ask you to put the project only on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Please, Solomon's last and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! The bill was also discussed in our Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. We know what, who and how to do with recreational zones. And that's why now any delay in adopting this bill, and it was widespread, we held it in our hands, we had the opportunity to discuss it, make observations, and so on, so any delay in adopting this law is a sign that someone hasn't privatized anything yet. I ask you very much, let us adopt this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. Let's do it this way. Since the proposals and observations of the Science and Technology Administration were taken into account, the Cabinet of Ministers agreed yesterday that we also had a compromise when we voted on the Oil Products Act and on the first and second readings. Now, to remedy the situation, I'm putting to the vote a proposal by the first reading committee, as a whole, as a bill, draft law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on concessions. Registration number 7153. Well, you have to keep some balance in the room, obviously. Please vote. [[14:15:13]] For 206 The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions, registration number 7153, on the basis. Please vote. We're voting on the basis. [[14:15:43]] For 241 Decision taken. Boris was Jakovitch Bezpalij was right. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be closed at 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings will begin: the legislative provision of modern economic policy under the conditions of constitutional reform. Since the 16th hour of work on the committees and factions. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 a.m. on schedule for Thursday. Thanks for the job.
