ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u1	Please invite the deputies to the session. People's deputies to the session room so that we can get started. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:43]] There were 415 national deputies registered in the session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, at 4 p.m. we were to consider making an oath by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. By the time the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Constitutional Court, arrives to attend this ceremony, I propose that we consider the following issues. This is a draft law amending Ukraine's laws on financing a fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. Registration number 5613. Reporter: Deputy Head of National Bank Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich Prepare yourself from the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The National Bank has prepared changes to the Ukrainian National Bank laws and to the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, which provide for the additional funding of the Investment Guarantee Fund at the expense of 20 per cent of the income of the National Bank of Ukraine and are aimed at increasing the guaranteed amount of investment compensation and gradually approaching it to the level of compensation for the contributions of individuals from civilized countries of the world. With your permission, I'll remind you that the Deposit Guarantee Fund has been operating since 2001. Since its establishment and to this day, the funds of the fund have increased by 5.8 times. Five times during this time, the fund was paying money to banks that had bankrupted. So far, we've been able to get all the money back to the fund. Yet we have a very serious problem, the size of the fund itself and the level of compensation that we can provide today, and this 3,000 dollars per person is extremely low. Why are there two aspects that are not high? The first one I would call internationally comparable. It is not a secret that in the European Union, this figure is a minimum of 20,000 euros. But if you don't go, even as far as the European Union, and you look at our neighbors, this figure is 2.5 thousand dollars, in Russian is 3.5 thousand dollars, in Ukraine it's less than 600 dollars per person. Of course, such a low amount of compensation does not contribute to a more active participation of funds, of the population in our banks. And if, after 2001, namely, the introduction of the deposit guarantee fund, the costs of the individuals in the banks increased from 50 to 70 percent per year, unfortunately, in 2004, we had a rise of less than 30 percent, given the problems of the last months of 2004. In what way do we get to the level as quickly as possible, even if it's 10,000 dollars, the level that is, let's say, in our neighbors of the sayings, because. Why is it important? The thing is, if you and I had the opportunity to reimburse 3,000 dollars back in 2001, we could reimburse more than half of our investors. But today, notice, 3,000 dollars, if we've paid off, we'll be able to satisfy less than 7 percent of our investors. Of course, it's an extremely low level of money-recovery guarantee. Yet. If we can raise the level to 10 dollars, then more than 80 percent of the investors can be guaranteed from all kinds of trouble. Why do I say different things? Because the problem isn't just the bank risks the amount of money I'm talking about right now, the compensation I'm talking about. This is a variety of political risks that are objective for banks. This is either a political situation, or a variety of decisions by the government, parliament, even the National Bank. So we think that all of us together at the installment stage should be involved in the formation of a deposit guarantee fund. The only observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u3	Give it a chance, my dear fellows. Secretariat, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u4	The only observation we made when we were looking at this issue on the committee is that we're taking the funds that should be allocated to the budget. I would like to point out that yes, we're removing them, but we're returning them to the budget through a deposit guarantee fund, because according to the Deposit Guarantee Act, all of the fund's funds go solely to the purchase of state-owned securities, that is, to the financing of the budget. Thus, we are convinced that the adoption of such a standard, by the way, when it comes to international experience, in countries such as Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Argentina, the Philippines, Austria, Canada, Italy, Hungary and so on, the State is taking the most active part in the formation of such a deposit insurance fund. So if we make that decision, we think we could get to the indicators that I've been talking about in two years, and pretty quickly form a deposit guarantee fund that would provide our citizens with a sufficiently peaceful and normal job with commercial banks. So in the case of this decision, I'm convinced that we can maintain the rate of growth in the investments of individuals at 50 percent, which means that there will be a resource that banks will generate into the economy. I'd like to support that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u5	Thank you, sit down, please. From the committee, Vasil Tsushko, please, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, I want to save time for us. Everything the representative said. The rapporteur from the National Bank, that's how it all fits in. We want to allocate 20 per cent of the 100 per cent of the money that makes a difference from the National Bank's funds to the deposit guarantee fund. This is, in principle, the protection of a person. There, you know, this law works, it's not possible to abuse it today, but to increase the amount we guarantee, it's to encourage people not to keep glass jars and banks, but to keep Ukrainian money in banks and not in drawers. It is therefore an incentive for people's contributions, in fact, to the economy. Our committee unanimously supported the bill, and there is a proposal to enact it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u7	Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board are the names of the national deputies who are registered. Well, they demand a discussion, they insist. There's nothing I can do. Does Andrew School insist on performing? He insists. Please prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u8	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, "The Fatherland." I would like to point out that the Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws on Financing the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals is actually insignificant -- there are two pages of text -- that is, there are more explanations than the changes themselves. Where the main one is said to be a red thread wrapped here in a string of different words. According to the National Bank, in the case of overexpenditures over expenditure approved for the current budget year, 80 per cent of the cost-effective income exceeds the cost-effective expenditure to the Ukrainian State budget to cover the budget deficit, 20 per cent to the Fund to guarantee the contribution of natural persons. The innovation here, you know, is, first of all, 80 percent to cover, and 20 percent to guarantee the investments of individuals are new things. Well, you know, we need to guarantee the funds of individuals, because we have problems with domestic banks, not in the sense that they, there, often fall or there are problems, but in that it increases trust in these banks. Trust, which means that the creditworthiness, the cost of these loans, and so on. But these processes need to be, not in parallel, but to meet each other. Because lending in Ukraine is still a weak part of the Ukrainian economy. So far, we have the highest in the region of credit rates, 12 percent, 12 percent, and above is in conditional units, and from the 30th, the 20th, the 25th, it's in bracelets, the gross interest on loans. So if it affects the decline in the credit rate, that is, the increase in trust in banks, if it increases the number of people who keep the funds in the accounts, and thus develop the banking system, that's one thing. And if it's just another step to put another coma or another branch in the legislation, it's quite different. I don't usually see big money here, but I think I do. I'm convinced that we can support the government here in the sense that any step in this direction is positive. All the other steps that aren't going to be taken, they're going to be negative. I mean, it's better to support it here now than then to have problems with making it sharp enough, quickly work on what's not done. I think it's worth the support here to only wish that the credit system would finally stabilize in Ukraine so that credit rates would eventually reach at least an acceptable minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u9	Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists is invited to speak. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u10	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Of course, this bill is prepared to promote Ukraine’s financial stability and to increase the level of protection of the most vulnerable population from their loss of money savings. This should be done by increasing the funding of the Deposit Guarantee Fund through contributions from the National Bank of Ukraine. But wait, this law has been passed by the Supreme Council for three years now, so why don't you feel the effects of this fund's work, and the positive ones. Every day I receive dozens of letters and there is no day to receive a letter asking people to help me recover their savings, asking for help in searching for trusts, funds that once again robbed people. So which one of us is it today? Who's going to believe today that this fund is going to protect the investor, because for three years this fund could at least help people recover the money that was in the Bank of Ukraine, which, along with human resources, disappeared like a soap bride. Over the course of three years, its capital has increased by 5.8 times, but has this had a positive effect on the size of the investment cost? I don't think so. People can be counted on because people don't believe in any funds anymore, and they say we're done cheating on us. For some reason, no oligarch invests money in a Ukrainian bank, but links to places where he will not be blotted out or robbed. Sadly, in how many years these fraudsters have not been held accountable. The law enforcement officers act on the advice and conclusions of the authorities, saying they cannot be held accountable in general, should first be proved that the officials of these companies, trusts and foundations acted with crimes and intentions rather than being victims of commercial risk or their own indecisiveness. In other words, the elaborate scheme for protecting oligarchs is being followed very well today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u11	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u12	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! We didn't hear one election campaign leader here with you. We heard it from the head of the National Bank, Sergey Tihypak. We have not heard and no one knows where he is today. And this is a great danger, because what we are offered today is also a great danger. I would like the National Bank to draw attention to its direct functions, including those of control, by other banks. For example, this is the bank we have at Easterbank. Missing persons fake documents, payment orders, and count to a firm called Protea, 7 million 480,000 dollars. They are covered by the Kyiv City Court of Appeal, a criminal case, and so on. I'm looking at where the National Bank controls Easterbank. But this bank was probably going to be undressed, and they would show all the citizens of Ukraine how it should be neat, and these citizens would then come and complain to us. I'm looking at a new project that the National Bank is now giving if it was previously written in article 5 of the National Bank Act: "The National Bank is the sum of the year in case of over-expenditure over-expenditure expenditure approved for the current fiscal year. Applying the next positive budget to the state budget to cover the budget deficit, and overexpenditures over revenue are reimbursed at the expense of the state budget. What is now being proposed? Now proposed from the state budget. 80% to the government budget for budget deficits and 20% to the trust fund for individuals. Where is the conclusion of the Budget Committee? Why isn't Prashenko here reporting? Why doesn't the government, the Monetary and Financial Board report? That it's going to be 20 percent-- that's where it's going to be, 20% is going to be taken here. Ladies and gentlemen, who will fill the budget? You know, we can justify anything that we want to fill out, but let's think about the State Budget. Thanks to Sergey Tihypak’s activities, all the others who sat and remained silent were performing teams. What's more, it's being checked for involvement, where were the ballots hidden? Didn't you hide in those rooms? Well, the investigation will do, I hope. So, honourable national MPs, I don't see the right reasoning to be given about what would not be harmful to the state budget. The national bank should benefit the state, not the damage and the shocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u13	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Mironenko Victor, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u14	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Ukrainian Federation faction, Mironenko. Respected compatriots, respected people's deputies, the bill is extremely important and very unfortunate that it is being considered in a simplified manner. Because there is an enormous number of issues under this bill. Well, let's just say, what banks are exactly participating banks? After what time can customers get the money from this fund in the case of the NPP, in the bank where they invested their money? Why Natzbank doesn't come up with an initiative to create, well, maybe a network, maybe some government banks and so on and so forth. Well, there's a question about Rescue. Is he or is he not a participant in this fund? It's very important why? Because every reasonable person may have thoughts: does Nutzbank work and does not matter who is in power, does he not work for certain private bankers, and does he not have interest in the problem? Won't government money, people's money be used to make another living? And questions like that. And then there's the question. Can this fund be saved from a financial default? Because if there's a serious financial default, no fund will help. And perhaps this is the question that I would like a representative of the National Bank to answer in his closing statement. Whether they will be established soon, whether projects are being prepared for the establishment of State banks, especially the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Ukraine, which is awaiting industry and agriculture, are eagerly awaiting. This law is urgently needed to protect the domestic real economy. Well, natural deflation. Since Yushchenka's time, the banking system has had a terrible situation because there has been a deflation, an artificial lack of money in the field of monetary treatment. The goal was to provide private banks with huge interest on credit. Now, thank God, from 20 percent to 30 percent have risen from gross domestic product. But there were 80 in the United States in the 1980s, 90-108 in China, and so on. So that's where we see a completely different picture. The economy is working hard. That is why I would like to receive an answer to this question. The Company's faction will support the bill on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u15	Dear colleagues. Time's up, Yuri Petrovich. You've done a lot today. Dear colleagues, the discussion on the bill to amend Ukraine's laws on financing the Deposit Guarantee Fund has been completed. The committee's proposal to accept as a basis, Valentina Alexandrovna, to adopt a bill to amend Ukraine's laws on the financing of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, registration number 5613, please vote. [[16:22:28]] For 196 The decision was not made. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 4, National Agrarian - 28, SDPU - 24, "One Ukraine" - 2, SPU - 18, Tymoshenko - 9, "Soyuz" - 11, "Trud Ukraine" - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Centre" - 11, "Democratic Ukraine" - 8, non-fractional - 13. [[17?]] Let's get this done. Now I'm going to put the vote back on the table. And if we don't come back, what's the procedure? No objections? Dear colleagues, let us vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft law amending Ukraine's laws on financing the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals. Registration number 5613. Please vote. [[16:23:43]] For 235 We're back to the hearing. I'm voting on the basis of the bill's draft registration number 5613. Please vote. [[16:24:08]] For 247 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 57, "Regions of Ukraine" - 7, National Agrarian - 28, SDPU - 27, "One Ukraine" - 13, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, "Soyuz" - 13, "Trud Ukraine" - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 12, "Centre" - 13, "Democratic Ukraine" - 11, non-fractional - 15. One minute! The proposal was made to adopt the bill in its entirety. Who denies it? I'm out of the hall!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u16	There's a denial we can't accept. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you with a request on behalf of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. That's what this is about. In the first half of the day, you and I voted Bill 6169 on working pensioners in part of their pensions for special merit before Ukraine. The point is that it is possible to get a pension for the special merit of working pensioners. We had a meeting on the committee and it turned out. That out of a million people who are assigned this pension, who are working 14 thousand, 14, 2,000, half of whom get it. I would very much ask you to vote on this document in the second reading, with its entry into force on January 1, 2006, because there is absolutely nothing to be done about the second reading there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u18	Yes. Honorable colleagues! Is the committee head's proposal supported, Your Honor? With us adopting the whole bill, because there's nothing to move on to the second reading. No warning? Well. I'm asking you all to sit down. Sit down, please. Yes. Dear colleagues! I do not see any warnings, so I am voting on the approval of the entire draft law as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine on Working Pensioners. Registration number 6169, please vote. Well, here comes the vote, well, good-bye. Come on! [[16:27:05]] For 242 Decision taken. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The President of Ukraine, the head of the Constitutional Court and the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, are taking part in our meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By order of the President of Ukraine of 5 January 2005, the President of Ukraine appointed Kovalenko Valentina Vasilovich as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the basis of article 6 of the Ukrainian Constitution Act. On 27 December 2004, on the basis of article 8 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Sixth Congress of Judges of Ukraine appointed Stryzak Andriyovitch as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court judge has taken an oath at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I ask that you exchange your reasoning with the motive, please, and with the procedure. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikhail Kosov, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u19	Mikhailo Kosov. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Even then, when you first put this issue in order of day, I made my written statement to you, in which I drew your attention to the fact that the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine should be at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Well, let's say that Leonid Danilovich is still on his last or last day as president. But the Prime Minister’s chair is empty because there is no Prime Minister in Ukraine. It is illegal to make an oath under such circumstances. And I'm sure I'll take a personal break in the question of recall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u20	I, my dear colleagues, was just so excited here that I forgot to introduce Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov. Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u21	Please pass the word to Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u22	Nestor Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u23	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Mr. President of Ukraine, our fellow countrymen! We're starting a very difficult path in the history of our country. We can see what is happening in the country or not, but we cannot fail to respect the laws and the Constitution. And today I ask that we remove the opposition in this room, which should be a guarantee of peace in our country. Today, there is a normal constitutional procedure. If we fail to respect the law today, we will not be able to present any claims to others tomorrow. Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I hope that today's oath will be made by future members of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u24	Anatoly Matvienko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Dear Leonid Danilovich, I address you as President of Ukraine. Don't you understand what's going on in the room right now and what farce is once again demonstrated by your initiative? Is it not clear to all who are in this room that sooner or later it will end? Not only is there no Prime Minister today, there is no government, there is little that hasn't been seen on the committee, you understand perfectly what you need, well, at least take one step in order to go with dignity. You're pushing back the society and the session. Leonid Danilovich, I beg you to take a step, however courageous you may be, out of respect for the position you are taking, for the higher legislature and for the society you are guaranteeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! We've exchanged motives and procedures for dealing with this issue, and now let's focus on the following. Dear colleagues, since 1996, since the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine, when an institution such as the Constitutional Court was approved, the Supreme Council has been considering the issue of the formation of an oath by judges of the Constitutional Court who were either appointed by the Supreme Council, or by the President, or by the judiciary. Once upon a time, respected colleagues who have been experienced and employed in the Supreme Council have known that the matter has not been dealt with on committees, that the matter is procedural, that it does not require prior preparation for consideration, and that we have acted accordingly, and that in my memory we have been sworn in by the three judges of the Constitutional Court. In no way have there been any misunderstandings or disturbances about this matter. At the last minute, we're demonstrating. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We're demonstrating the necessary principle. Yes, we need to take a decision on the procedure for taking an oath. Let's give the commission and accept, and this act, which has already taken place, must be sanctified. And you understand very well that this is a regulatory and procedural issue that has been translated into a political plane, and you're all reporting on this. We held meetings of the Conciliation Council and discussed this issue, we put it to a vote, but as usual, when we put questions to the vote and the Conciliation Council does not support it, we bring it to the session room. There's no need for a vote. Anatoly Sergiyovich, dear! And if the committee does not consider and recommend, what is the legal responsibility? There is no legal responsibility, for that is not provided for. But the question is, What do we want? But I'd like to ask, dear colleagues, maybe I don't like the candidature, but let's not create a precedent. So that's how I propose. Dear colleagues, listen to me regarding the break. The break is announced when the issue has ended or the matter has not been considered. So I suggest, let's let the Supreme Council work now, let us now, let Adam Ivanovich hold a meeting of the Supreme Council, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, I ask that we gather in the office and talk about this situation in order to get us out of this colossal. Do we have a deal? Please continue our meeting. The leaders of the MPs and factions in 10 minutes please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u27	The question is: the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Youth and Children's Social Organizations, Bill No. 2372. Reported the secretary of the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture of Sport, and Tourism, Yuri Alexiyovich Pavlenko. Please, Jura. Dear colleagues! Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u28	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes that separate articles of the current Act on Youth and Childhood Social Organizations be brought into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in that part of their statutes that do not meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. The committee considered the bill and decided to bring it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis for the first reading, taking further note of the management's observations. At the same time, a number of proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies before the Law on Youth and Children’s Social Organizations. In this connection, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill on the basis of the bill and to entrust the committee with its second reading, taking into account legislative proposals made in the form of bills to amend the Act on Youth and Children's Social Organizations. The name for the transcript is number 3222, introduced by the national deputies Goshovsky and Homutinnik, number 3408 by the national deputies Polit and Kirilenko, and number 5323 by the national deputy Volodymyr Chandra. The committee proposes to support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u29	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, honourable fellow MPs who stand by the rostrum, there's no need, because we're not looking at the issue that you're dealing with right now. So I don't see the need to stand. Please, Javorowski is invited to speak from the place then, the microphone of Yavorowski, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u30	Vladimir Yavorowski. Javrovščina, Žovkovščina, Lvivsk region, Viktor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, here indeed, Yuri Pavlenko has brought these changes to you and to the radio audience. I fully support the fact that these two preceding articles, hardly need to be introduced into the Law, because there is a decision of the Constitutional Court and they come out automatically. And of course, on those amendments, on the old text of the Law, of course, the transitional period of ours was reflected, and there was still a moment of such giganticness, when the bill was voted, when all of this was necessary, the entire youth movement kept in one of these monopolized fists to finance it accordingly. It's really anachronism, it's really rarity, nowhere in the world is there anything like that. Because, of course, you have to make this amendment, that until the funding that this is financed from the local budget, I support it absolutely. If, technically, we need to repeat in this Law the decision of the Constitutional Court and make it, of course, but it's pure technology, there's nothing left to discuss and there's nothing to discuss about. And with half a minute left, I just wanted to join what Anatoly Matvienko said and explain to my constituents what's going on, and I just want to say, I think it's totally inappropriate in the last days of this disgraceful presidency of Kuchma today since his introduction, to the Constitutional Court to bring in people whose 9 years later no one can get out of there. And this is the Constitutional Court. Who admitted to one of Kuchma's cadences that he didn't control, turns out to be us. Because of this, I am convinced that we are now in negotiations, we must do everything we can to prevent today from taking an oath to these last kushmian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u31	Please, Carmazin's microphone, Masenko's behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down, we have repeatedly raised questions in this room about absolute illegality to monopolize the right of all Ukrainian youth and all youth organizations in the Ukrainian Committee of Youth Organizations and thus coordinate the entire youth movement, as well as to accumulate all the money. And, thank God, the decision of the Constitutional Court was recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution. But this decision of the Constitutional Court took place on 13 December 2001. And how much time we can't make any changes there. We can't and the money is spent anywhere. We could not, for example, find from the Ministry of Culture, nor from anyone, the Party of Fatherland's Defenders initiated a children's festival, the All-Ukrainian Festival of Spiritual Music of Hope, where children were under the age of 21, where representatives of all religions whose interests were to protect the state of Ukraine participated. And so I'm very sorry that we couldn't make those changes before. They have to be made, removed from article 10, which speaks of financial support for the activities of youth and children's social organizations, obviously that both local governments and executive authorities see where to spend money. But I'm surprised. Okay, I'm in favour of the first reading of this bill. But it says here that these executive authorities of local self-government can delegate powers to youth and children’s social organizations for the implementation of appropriate programs. No program has ever been made available to the youth organizations of the Party of Motherland Defenders! And it didn't cost a penny. It turns out that if they're against the state, it's financed. If you want to protect this country, look for money wherever you want. So in the second reading, it should be written that there should be a proportional distribution. And this has to be a transparent distribution of these funds. Thank you for your attention. Please accept the first reading, support and thank Pauline for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u33	Please, Masenka's microphone. After him, Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I really agree with the fact that the bill itself does not need such detailed discussion. But the youth issue, the youth policy that we have in the state, needs much more attention. And I'm sorry to say that we, the deputies, have to speak out of place today because the rostrum has dragged on the orange clouds, and we can't come out of the rostrum. And the question of youth policy, I think, and the Constitutional Court has made the right decision, which really, one organization can't just finance or support from the state budget, because there are other directions in youth policy. This is something that needs constant attention. And the state must take care of all the organizations created in Ukraine. We just get to the point where we can't solve something, we don't have the money, we don't have the money. Because there's no money in the budget. Well, today, a lot of people from the rostrum have been talking about what the old bandit authorities have led us to believe that we don't have the money in the budget. Why does the new authorities not go to meetings at the wishes of both the young and the people, and we see how many social issues are not being voted on today? And if you look at the President's inauguration, more than 4.5 million dollars are allocated, maybe you can do this procedure and modestly, not so much as a rich state, and not so much as a new president or new authority has earned to the people to spend so much money on this show, which will be held in connection with the inauguration. And in conclusion, I'd like to draw the attention of journalists, where they show all their fingers, where journalists sit, and I'd like to say that if we had the press and the media, really, independent, that's how they would show up on their pages the moment that I went to the Kuchma Supreme Council today, when it was always coming in, I'd never, ever, ever applauded and applauded my friends. And the same country was all in ecstasy when Kuchma showed up, and today you see no one came up, no one cheered. I think Kuchma deserves it, but you probably have the same fate that no one will ever see you with applause.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u35	Please, it's Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u36	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished radio listeners! Now, the senior representatives of the civil society company PORA, so-called, insurgents who once tried to occupy the Supreme Council, and now parts of them have broken through here and occupy the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are trying to prove to the former President of Ukraine Kuchma that he's not like that. But they're his children and his favorite grandchildren. That's why there's nothing on the mirror when the flower curves. That's the first thing I wanted to say. And second, about the law. This law is a typical small-scale bill aimed at correcting certain flaws, creating makeup, the criminal face of capitalism that has been established in Ukraine. Let this make-up be, we'll fix the flaws and mistakes that are, and our faction, and I will personally vote for it. But I want to give you some comparisons of youth policy contained in the UN Development Report in the 2001 report. Small socialist Cuba spends nearly two times as much on education and health as other Latin - American countries. In Latin America, the richest 10 percent of the population earn 46 times more than 10 percent of the poorest, and in Cuba this difference is only 5 times. One quarter of Americans are forced to live on less than $2 a day, less than two percent in Cuba. We are proud of Cuba, our children have been treated there and continue to be treated. I wish that at last our country would be as proud as we are now with little Cuba and that children and young people come to our Artek to be treated, nurtured, and enjoy life. I really hope this time comes. This will be the time when socialism will prevail and the Soviet authorities will return to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u37	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Youth and Child Organizations Act, Bill No. 2372. Please vote. [[16:49:17]] For 148 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 35, Communists - 47, "Regions of Ukraine" - 16, National Agrarian Party - 7, Social Democrats - 8, "One Ukraine" - 5, Socialists - 1, Block Timoshenko - 5, "Soyuz" - 3, Labour Ukraine", NDP - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, "Centre" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 3, "Afterfractional" - 6. Dear colleagues, come on. Are they immobilized? Who's in favour of going back to that question, please vote. [[16:50:11]] For 290 We're back. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Youth and Children's Social Organizations, registration number 2372. Please vote. [[16:50:41]] For 295 A decision has been made. Maybe in general as a law? Oh, no? No, it's not. There's a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on transaction of donor raw materials in external economic relations, registration number 5701. From the profile committee of Matthews, please. Turn on Matthew Vladimir Josephovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u38	Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Adam Ivanovic, in view of the fact that a new version of the Act was introduced late last night at 5 p.m., which neither the committee nor the other committees considered, nor the Ukrainian people's deputies were familiar with it, because the author of the Act is not available because the author of the new law is not available, there is a proposal to withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u39	I mean, we're moving on to the next session, right? There is a bill to amend the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. Registration number, Law 3148. Reported by Czernowetské Leonid Mikhajlovich. From the committee to prepare Ivanova. I've seen Chernewsky. Leonid Mikhailovich is here. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u40	. to the National Deputies that you continue to be able to speak to the Deputy of the Supreme Council. Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We voted in favour of the law, but then there were no people, not enough. All the communists voted in full, and then they remembered my law, and then not only did the majority vote on it, which represented the gang's past power, but the past of the bandit power no longer exists, it is today. It's today. Don't scream, old man! Today, this power needs support. It is a matter of local authorities financing the entire local courts illegally, because this money must go to pensioners, to build roads there, to repair roofs, whatever. Courts should be funded only from the budget. It's the law. Nevertheless, all the years of independence we've funded them, every scumbag, local hoodlum in the district, unless he has problems with the people who want to retire on time or get back to work, he's about to start repairing the court. I've seen some courts. Listen! That's interesting! I've seen some courts out there somewhere in Geneva or somewhere else. Well, it's something amazing at all. To look only at the court of the Dwarves, which, you know, the highest-ranking court in this, was financed by the DSS, and is thus built. It's a bad trial that looks good today. And he is a good court president, if the court is more stricken than it is, all the more so with the President of this court. Therefore, please, we must increase funding, but at the same time vote in favour of a law banning bureaucracy the financing of local judicial branches of government, it is a crime before the Ukrainian people, it is not good. And no one will understand us if we don't support this law. So please mobilize. Today, enough people, vote in favour of this law, and we will increase budget funding, and the court will depend only on the State and on the law and no local influence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u41	Please, a member of the Committee on Legislative Protection, Sergey Anatolyevich Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u42	Deputies! The bill proposes to supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine with article 210 with the symbol 1 by establishing criminal liability for the use of the budget allocated by the Ukrainian State Budget Act to finance the activities of the courts. Having examined this bill, the committee believes that the bill repeats the already valid norm of criminal law and does not meet the requirements of the construction of criminal law, both conceptually and technically. In view of all this, the committee proposes to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u43	Yes. Please, Yavorowski's microphone, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski. Javrovščina, Zvkovščina, Viktor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues and distinguished voters, in my hands from the slashed bills of my colleague Czervetsky's elbow. Because of this, I, my speech will be the shortest, I can't go against this law, even though I don't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u45	Please, Carmazine's microphone. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u46	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of the constituency of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the purpose pursued by this bill is noble. The goal is to provide budgetary funding to absolutely all bodies that have a bearing on law enforcement. These are also courts, but it would be desirable to list all the organs here, if this Law were to be adopted, if you go in that direction, then you have to write and establish education, the military force, the D.A., the B.S.A., the M.S.A., the Tax Office. It's gone. Is there a similar norm in the Criminal Code? Yes, there is article 210, which already provides for criminal responsibility for the use of budget funds by the service person, contrary to their purpose in large and particularly large assignments. Well, unless someone's fault in Odessa has normal conditions, in Kiev, unfortunately, in the capital of a European state. Even the City Court of Appeal is in terrible conditions. Let's also introduce criminal responsibility for non-budgetary financing. Let's just say that the city authorities haven't allocated money there yet, as long as they promise to finish it and let's say we're going to take criminal responsibility for a penny there, even in a run-down account. Yeah, that's bad, I'm against it. But we can't just take everybody's hands off and put everybody away for playing right now. It's a culture, a legal culture, including, it's been brought up for years in states. You have seen today what our nation's gift has done, the guarantor of the nation, how beautifully it has gone. This gift from the nation was made by the President. Better yet, he would have provided normal budgetary institutions, including courts. I think that if we adopt this logic, all of us, without the exception of the law enforcement agencies, will be subject to such a rule, such changes can be adopted. If that is not the case, it is better not to adopt such a law. So there's this conclusion of the Science and Technology Department that they say in principle there are appropriate norms in the Criminal Code, this is 210 articles of the Criminal Code. And I don't see the need for a new article with badge 1, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u47	Please, Mironek Victor's microphone, the Communist faction, prepare Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u48	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable people's deputies, respected compatriots, respected Adam Ivanovich. The Ukrainian Compartia faction supports the Committee's proposal to reject the bill. Indeed, how can it be supported if, as the distinguished MP Carmazin has rightly said, there is, firstly, the same article 210 which regulates the matter. Secondly, according to a mistake, the author's assistants appear to have made a mistake, namely, the State Budget Act of Ukraine. There is no such law, and every year a new law has been passed with the corresponding amounts. Thirdly, the problem is not that the bill is not legally settled, but that laws are not being implemented. All of this has to do with the criminal capitalist power, which has existed since 1991 and has been living through the plundering of the people, cannot punish itself, the power, itself. And here all parties of capitalism are guilty of it, who call themselves right-wing, centrists and so on. Secondly, the budget is on the move. Thirdly, there is a negligible amount in the budget. Ukraine's budget was four times the size of its socialist agenda. Why? Not only did the budget not start, but it served the people fully, the economy belonged to the people, the money went from the income of enterprises to the budget. Now it's in private pockets. I therefore invite the author and everyone else to support the idea of socialist progressive orientation. To abandon this predatory, greedy, cruel capitalist, predatory path! It's understandable that whoever steals, he won't refuse, he'll introduce all the new and new bills, it's understandable, but the people must understand that the capitalist never, the thief, and he almost steals in our time, will not benefit, will not care for the judges. And they really have to make a good wage. I therefore propose once again to support initiatives. This is what I call on the people of Ukraine, to support the initiatives of the Company of Ukraine, to ensure that a large part of the nationalization is first of all very important to the State and people of the economy of Ukraine, enterprises. To get the money into the state budget. Ensure the creation of public banks that invest the economy in accessible interest. And then the economy will rise. And then we will say, if there are supporters of socialism in power, we will make peace. And it'll be like Lukashenko's. They say he's bad. And the people live even better than Russia, rich in minerals. Even better than our beautiful Ukraine, rich in blacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u49	Please, solomatin Yuri's microphone, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, almost everything about the substance of this bill, especially that article 210 of the Criminal Code already provides for appropriate precautions. But I would still like to think with you, and why is our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, so fiercely denying that these poor courts, who do not receive money from the budget, if the local authorities help them, why does he deny it. And I think this is a very simple situation to ban even the local authorities, and so that seven million oligarchs can take on local courts, and that no one can get them to do all the things that we can't even dream of today. I want to draw our common attention to the fact that you and I are reading the reports of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors on the use of funds from the state budget from a particular direction, and we are constantly there seeing, hearing, determining that money, often densely, budget goes wrong. I mean, they're not going to use a single person, they're going to use it instead of direct budget spending to channel this money to other expenditures that aren't budgeted, just like in court. So all I want to do is say it. It is a system of use of funds that is not intended, and it is linked to the fact that in the modern, bourgeois, capitalist state of Ukraine there is no order in the judicial branch of power, there is no authority in the collection of money for the state budget and in the use of that money. And those who came to power today and tried to prove that they were the most good guys, and these were the bad guys, and these are the good ones, they're wrong. This is what a man, Lilia Ivanovna Varga, from the village of Bogdanovka, the Pavlovrad district, the Dnipropetrov region, writes to me. We've just heard that they're going to spend 4 million dollars on what's called an inauguration. The woman is desperate, and she says, "Our task is to feed you hungry children, not full oligarchs with a fat pocket. Don't let them drink four million grevens" – this is the popular idea that it is not for the purpose of using money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u51	One minute, please, Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u52	. Adam Ivanovich, it's very noble that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u53	Leonid Mikhailovich, Cherniak, and then you. Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, the purposeless use of budget funds is a criminal offence that must be severely punished. The bill proposes to provide budgetary funding for law enforcement agencies, particularly courts. The Special Committee, Deputys Karmazin and Mironenko referred to the fact that there is a 210th article of the Criminal Code. But the question is, Is it working? It usually doesn't work, it's inactive, it's paper. And that's why Chernewsky proposes another article -- prime. - strengthen the operation of this article or create a mechanism for its operation. I'm not sure that's going to happen, but really, in itself, it deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u55	Yes, please, one minute for the author to be incarcerated. Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u56	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for the opportunity to speak. Dear People's Deputies, distinguished radios! Let everyone know, last time the Communists voted in favour of the law, once again a hundred times they remembered that the local authorities were taking decisions against the people to finance these very things. [[If they're rogue, of course they're not rogue, I probably don't know them, but I probably do.]] A traitor's position is exactly the same to you as it was when you snuck in with power, and because of you, of course, the people suffered more because of the communists than any other faction. That's a great law! With regard to article 210, it does not apply. No criminal proceedings have been instituted. If you do not vote in favour of this law, people will not be able to defend themselves against local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u57	Question completed. Cibenka, please. Zybenko, one minute, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I would still like to address representatives of all political forces, factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Just now, a man who intended to become president of Ukraine, but fortunately did not become president, tried to direct a faction of Communists how to vote. The only subject in Ukraine is the working people of Ukraine who should advise us on how to act in one case or another. I am absolutely convinced that the faction of Communists will be determined as is necessary for the working people of Ukraine, not as a subject would have wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u59	Question completed. Dear colleagues, let's be clear. I put it to a vote: on the adoption of the draft Criminal and Procedural Codes, registration number 3148, as the first reading of the draft Law on Supplementing the Criminal and Procedural Codes. [[17:10:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Perhaps for the rereading of the first reading? I put it to a vote: to re-read the bill. [[17:11:19]] For a hundred and So much for 156. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. The factions? Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" -74, Communists - 0, Regions of Ukraine - 0, National Agrarian Party - 27, Social Democrats - 0, One Ukraine - 1, Socialists - 18, Block Timoshenko - 3, Union - 0, Labour Ukraine, NDP - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 12, Center - 1, Democratic Ukraine - 6, non-fractional - 12. [[United]] Dear colleagues, be careful. I'd like to see one of you take out our common gap right now. On January 12th, you and I passed the Law of Ukraine amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. But in this law, unfortunately, we made an inaccuracy: we adopted January 12 and recorded that it was going into effect on January 1. Clearly, the law can't have reverse force, action, so there's a proposal for us to clarify that this law goes into effect once it's made public, published. Do you understand, Your Honor? Let's add this addition to the law that. in article 2 of the Ukraine Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government to replace the date of entry not from January 1, but this law takes effect from the date of its publication. Please vote. [[17:13:30.]] For 265 The refinement we have put into the transcript, that is, this law will enter into force, if it is signed, will enter into force, will take effect from the day it is published. We've got one more question left. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Operational Search Act. Registration number 4354, please, Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'm taking this bill off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-20-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! The drafter withdrew the bill. We did what we wanted today. I want to make another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine Bandurk Alexander Markovich from the Democratic Initiatives and the faction of the "One Ukraine" Party. Since we have fully implemented what we planned to consider today, at this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
