ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:27]] There were 405 national deputies registered in the session room, 409, sorry. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Mikolaiovich, who was 50 years old, the Jubilee. Let us welcome him and wish him good health and success. Dear colleagues! At 3 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of the heads of MPs and factions, representatives of the Committee on Finance and Banking, as well as the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. At the meeting of the Conciliation Council, the Prime Minister and some members of the Cabinet of Ministers will be present. Let us discuss issues of our relationship and cooperation. 15th year - conference room. I'd like to be the leaders of the MP groups and factions, the heads of the committees that I've called. Dear colleagues, the list of issues to be discussed, you have, let's move on to their consideration. A draft Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Securities, as well as a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on mortgage relations, is being announced for consideration. Such Rules of Procedure are proposed. For a report from the first draft, Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich will be the reporter, in five minutes, for the answers to questions — three minutes. A report from the committee is three minutes. Similarly, it is suggested that the second law should be passed and that two bills should be discussed together. It's a separate decision. For the performances, up to 15 minutes. No warning? None. Then thank you. Let's move on to the question. The report invites the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market Baluk Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we have an extremely tense agenda. When the deputies take their seats, I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can continue our work for two hours today so that we don't have any more meetings. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Mortgage Securities Bill was designed to implement the provisions of the Mortgage Act in part of the introduction of the system of refinancing of primary mortgage lenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has no bearing on the mortgage of land, and especially on the land of agricultural destination. The purpose of Ukraine's Mortgage Securities Bill is to involve long-term financial resources through the Funding Market and the development of Ukraine's financial sector. One of the main tasks of the project is to define the characteristics of the release and circulation of mortgage securities, such as mortgage bonds, to set up mortgage coverage requirements that result from their release, to identify market participants in the mortgage securities market and the requirements for their activities, and to regulate the state's mortgage securities market. The bill contains six chapters, including sections on the identification of types of mortgage securities and the requirements for mortgage bonds impersonators, the handling and management of mortgage coverage, government regulation and supervision in the area of mortgage securities. Taking into account the adoption of the Law on Mortgage Credit, the operation with the Consolidated. debt and mortgage certificates, as well as amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Securities and Exchange Act. Article 3 of the bill stipulates that relations in the field of the issuance and circulation of mortgage certificates are regulated by special legislation. The bill introduces a 2-level mortgage lending system in which. both banking and non-bank financial institutions will perform. In addition, Articles 10, 12-16, 20 define the size and requirements for the issuance of mortgage bonds and mortgages. Articles 23, 26 and 28 define the functions and rights of the manager by mortgage replacement. The project pays particular attention to the protection of investor rights in mortgage bonds. The bill defines the competence and authority of the authorities to regulate the state in the area of mortgage securities, the activities of financial institutions that will provide financial services, in accordance with Ukraine’s legislation. Ukraine's Mortgage Securities Bill is supported by the National Bank of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Supreme Council's main scientific and expert administration is the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Securities recommended to be accepted as a basis. Ukraine's Mortgage Securities Bill was reviewed and supported by a profile committee. Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Securities will create the necessary conditions for the development of new financial instruments, contribute to the integrated development of the mortgage lending market, increased liquidity of the banking sector, the development of non-bank financial institutions, the involvement of broad population types in housing lending. Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretović, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Please tell Your Honor Anatoly Ivanovich whether this law requires that anticorruption measures be taken to avoid corruptible articles in this law so that valuable papers cannot be used as a bribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u5	Thank you for your attention. A valuable paper, like a bribe, is of course an interesting tool. I don't think the subject of this law was to settle this situation. The bill itself was an expert, and we think it's very balanced, very balanced, and it doesn't allow any corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u6	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u7	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Ivanovich! You made that clear. That the mortgage securities provided for by this law have no bearing on the land mortgage. But there's this saying, I'm going to say in Russian, Please tell us what and how we should do, even in the first reading, to cut off all approaches to the land mortgage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u8	This law is very narrow, it does not foresee any mortgage ratio. It's just that we have in society, really, we have a problem with the mortgage of the earth, and there's a fear that it might be. And here's just the words that sound like the mortgage, and, of course, I think that the law is clearly written for the financial instrument and has nothing to do with the land. And you don't have to cut anything off here, it just doesn't apply. I'm sure of it. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u9	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u10	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of "Regions of Ukraine", Zaporozska oblast. I am addressing you, the rapporteur, and, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am addressing you. I think I should draw the rapporteurs' attention to the quality of the preparation of information to the Supreme Council. From your report, I have only caught one phrase that this law provides new financial instruments. What's new, who's given, what's the point of this novelty? What is and what is not in world practice? I personally cannot draw conclusions from your report, how can I vote for your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. Well, there's a new financial tool that's called to allow long-term financial resources, low-cost financial resources, but very wide in time. This involves a new financial instrument, mortgage securities. The law defines their circulation. Well, maybe I wasn't exactly specific, I thought that in those documents that were submitted to the law, in the explanatory note, they're broader. I wanted more politically, that this tool was needed today, that it was awaited by banking institutions, that the population was waiting for it. And involving longer money, which will be cheaper, will lead to a cost to the population, first of all, involving money for the long-term management of a particular farm. So that's the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u12	Thank you, sit down, please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Minister of Finance, is invited to the report. Prepare for the report of the Holy One. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Development of Mortgage Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u13	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected national deputy, is one of the most important tools in the development of housing. A mortgage that ensures the performance of financial and other liabilities. The development of mortgage lending depends, first of all, on appropriate legislation, which should provide reliable protection on the one hand, both to the mortgage lender and to the borrower, and, on the other hand, provide incentives for further development and improvement of the entire set of legal relations in this area. The lack of such legislation has fuelled the development of the mortgage market. Since 2004, the situation with the provision of mortgages has changed. Since January 1, three important laws have been in force to regulate this area. However, with the level of mortgage lending, Ukraine is lagging behind many developed countries. The level of mortgage lending in Ukraine is only half of the gross domestic product. The main reasons for this phenomenon are the lack of clear and transparent legislation on the registration of immovable property, as well as a system for the registration of the loads of this property, which makes it difficult for creditors to obtain the information necessary for the legal status of the property transferred to ensure the return of the loan. The absence of a developed real estate market that makes it impossible to meet creditors’ demands on time and in full terms for the realisation of the assets. The deficit in long-term lending resources of banks, other non-bank credit institutions alongside the absence of a system for refinancing long-term loans, including developed stock market instruments. The attitude and development of the credit system requires a comprehensive solution to the whole range of issues and a proper legislative settlement of basic legal relations, which are key to allowing a substantial step towards the development of the mortgage lending system. The proposed bill is based on the following basic objectives: the establishment of a single approach to the regulation and management of liabilities in the mortgage lending system, the identification and establishment of the principles of legal and organisational principles, the involvement of and management of natural and legal persons, the application of a termist instrument, the elimination of collations and duplications, the harmonization of individual concepts, the enhancement of the protection of the rights of mortgage market participants, including through the establishment of a special order for drawing on assets in bankruptcy of mortgage certificates or administrators, as well as banks holding accounts of listed entities. The introduction of sanctions against officials of a securities issuer by a regulator for violating securities issue legislation. Specifies the order in which the default one is used. Establishing a clear list of cases that do not allow a delay in the execution of the decisions of the court to apply for a mortgage, as well as in the organization of the sale of the mortgage. Registration of the rules of the Fund for Construction Financing and the Fund for Real Estate Transactions and changes to them in accordance with the relevant authority that supervises the management of the activities of the manager. Lowering the value of mortgage loans to investors by making a more clear settlement of the principal. Guaranteeing mortgage loan participants and reducing the risk value in the structure of the loan. Exclusion from Ukraine's Insurance Act is a series of unwarranted types of compulsory insurance that end up being paid by an investor. The project contains changes to 19 laws in Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers' request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, if there are any questions to the Minister of Finance, please sign in. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u15	Victor Mikhailovich, despite all the insurance that is currently provided for by the bill, will still be cases where it is impossible to recover the mortgage property or not possible to recover the costs when the building costs are received. Please tell me, will a certain insurance or reserve fund be created in case the return is impossible?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u16	Such incidents certainly are, and risks remain in such sectors. But to minimize such risks, there are legislative changes, such as enforcement, which allow for the pretrial and judicial alienation of immovable property in a way other than that provided for by valid legislation, the withdrawal of mortgage instruments from the liquidation mass in the event of bankruptcy. In addition, a reduction in the cost of credits, which also have a bearing on risks, is caused by a tool that allows for the inclusion of cheap costs, as well as a reduction in the additional burden that results from the application of many additional forms of risk insurance. This reduces the likelihood of default.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u17	Anatoly Orzhachowski, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u18	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please pass the word to the colleague Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u19	Vladimir Leschenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u20	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Victor Mikhailovich, I am impressed by your professionalism in this matter. But I know, and people know that over the past 14 years, we've been through several periods with valuable papers, both privatization and trusts, and so on. You were one of the ideologists of privatization there, so you told people in the same professional way that it would give them such benefits, and in the end, the investment funds were different and so on, and people lost their property. Similarly, you are now confident about these mortgages, securities, and so forth. Will you tell me, this time, what will people get from this stock? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u21	First of all, in order to develop this market, the risk is largely borne by non-citizens, and the risk problem here in creditors is. And the very existence of high risk is that banks don't have good lending tools. And in the end, it's either the Ukrainian economy or the Ukrainian citizens. In order to reduce the risks, just the anticipated instrument that provides for mortgages, that is, the loan that is provided under construction, is provided with property that is drawn up by the relevant collateral documents, that is, entirely different tools and completely different philosophy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u22	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, esteemed Victor Mihajlovich, I have two news, Victor Mihajlovich: the first is good. Given your report and the importance of this law, the faction will vote in favour of the draft law. But despite what may not seem to be directly my question, I am very interested in the following. The Government and Parliament must be concerned not only about the situation that creates the climate for tomorrow's investor, but also about the conditions for those who came as an investor yesterday and today. It's about AutoZAZ. Do you know that AutoZAZ has cut more than twice, you know that they've been working with losses for a month? Which is what the government and you personally recommend, Minister, on the AutoZAZ situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u24	Thank you for the first news, and for the support of this bill, which we have the opportunity to make a good document, not just to solve citizens' housing issues. This is a tool that gives impetus to the economy, including a partial solution to the issues that arise in the metallurgical sector. As for AutoZAZA, we had a long discussion with AutoZAZA representatives, and we reached an agreed position on rates of duty, which are key to the development of car building. There is a request for an appropriate bill, prepared for second reading, to vote on this week in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u25	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you very much. Time's up. Dmitry Svašas, member of the Committee on Financial and Banking Activities. Please take the committee's position on Bills 7484 and 7482.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u26	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, it was appropriate to select the Rules for the Compromise of These Bills because they have a number of common features. First of all, these two bills are essentially technical, they're going to implement the mortgage law that you and I passed more than a year ago. Secondly, these are both laws, they go into execution, they go into a package of bills proposed by the government to implement the program. It's a good place to live. And finally, I want to point out that these two bills have nothing to do with the mortgage on the land. This is very serious because this is a matter of serious opposition in the session room at all. That is, to the mortgage of the land, especially the agricultural assignment, these bills have nothing to do with it. And finally, I want to remind you that both of these bills were, in fact, we were looking at, even though they had other numbers, but we were looking at them in this room. And then they weren't accepted, well, I'm sorry, but basically on a political basis. So I want to make a proposal to the committee: to support both of these bills in the first reading and to join all the people's deputies in processing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u27	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Are there any questions, dear colleagues? If you have any, please sign in. Three minutes, sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u28	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear rapporteur, I would like to hear from you your opinion on making changes to the projects, in particular Project 7482, to the Ukrainian Master Code, which in my opinion do not correspond exactly to the legislative approaches that we have today and should not be adopted; to change the Civil Code of Ukraine. And your opinion on why there is no involvement of the Legal Policy Committee in making changes to such serious, basic, global documents that have gone through expertise in the Council of Europe. It's serious stuff, you know?Oh, my God! And today we're taking, like, a hippie, we're making changes, we're proposing changes to the Code of Masters, to the Civil Code, and to several articles, to the Notaryate Act, to restore the ability of the debtor or to recognize it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. Mr. Yuri, I want to agree with you that this is really a very serious bill. And this bill is making huge changes, as the honourable reporter, Minister of Finance Pinzenik, said. But what I want to remind you is that this bill is proposed for adoption only in the first reading, and there is definitely going to be a committee of profile -- specifically from legal policy -- to improve this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u30	Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u31	Matthew, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u32	Yuri Solomatin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Dear Dmitry Vladimirovich, I now mention the words of the most outstanding poet of the old, the new Soviet era of Vladimir Vladimirovich Majakovsky: "This is a bug, and this is a bubble hole. This is the bourgeois-democracy republic." Say, please, in these two bills, who receives a bubble from Ukrainian society and who gets a bubble hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u34	Thank you for the very figurative question. Do you know what, in my view, Ukrainian society will get from these bills? Well, first of all, I'm stressing that these bills are technical and are going to be implemented by the Mortgage Act. And secondly, Ukrainian society, citizens, financial institutions are joining the market for fairly cheap loans that our economy today lacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u35	Valerius Assadchev, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u36	Thank you. Mr. Dmitri, maybe not my question to you, but you're not always on record, so I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance more. You have, according to this law, really already told my colleague Carmazin, there are many changes to other laws. In particular, under the corporate income tax law, non-residents are exempt from income tax for mortgage securities that are simulated by residents. But there's a five-year budget bill for new benefits. So the two articles are completely out of harmony with each other. So I'd like to, maybe it's up to the government, but since I signed you up, if you can, answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u37	You know -- thank you for asking -- really, this bill was drafted by the government and there's some kind of disagreement here, but if you're interested in my opinion, I think it's this norm that could lead to the addition of external money to the economy of Ukraine because of this benefit. But we have to reconcile it and we have to do it for the second reading. Please join us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u38	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues! Let's go to Bill 7484, 7482. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. 15 minutes, we agreed. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we have to move forward. I think the idea in government, in this case in the Ministry of Finance, is right. The question is, how did this idea go, and I've already tried to show it in my question today. In my view, this idea is a little bit unsuccessful, because a huge number of changes to the basic laws that are set are being made now, and it's not being calculated in many cases. We don't have a budget committee to conclude completely on this, we don't have a legal committee opinion, we don't have their conclusions on this, because everything is done in a hasty way, literally. And what's more, I'd like to draw your attention to the absolutely inconvenient projects that we've been looking at last week, and we've heard a statement that this is the Supreme Council blocking the consideration of the issues that the government is making. But let them learn how to do normal projects. We'll take it all. But now the point is that these projects are a little bit of cheese, although the idea here is. So I'm going to suggest that the bills be adopted in the first reading, although I have a very, very big point to each of them. For example, before my colleague Pinzenik's report now, I want to say that it is necessary to take fully into account the observation of the Nacco-Expert Authority, which has rightly observed that, according to Article 3, as proposed, part of the second Article 3 of this Law, not the Law on the Specific Type of Mortgage Securities establishes the characteristics of their release and circulation, but the general one that is absolutely legally invalid. So I agree with the fact that the features of the release and circulation of mortgage certificates are set up by the Law of Ukraine on mortgage loans, consolidated mortgage transactions and mortgage certificates. As for Master's, the changes to the farm code, which is proposed in 7482, I find absolutely unacceptable changes to the 164th Master's Code. There is absolutely no need to make any changes to article 331 of Part 4 of the Civil Code. There are also serious questions
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, the Communist faction has a word. Next is Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u41	Yuri Solomatin, the Communist faction, respected colleagues, the government of capitalist ministers in the development of the Mortgage Law offers new financial instruments, introduces low-cost financial resources, so-called mortgage securities, and develops mortgage relationships to unprecedented heights. Who needs it? The question seems to be unnecessary, but I'm still going to ask us. Does it need a village uncle or a grandmother? You need this jobless in. A little town? Do you need that little Ukrainian guy who lives from salary to salary, not sure he gets it? That our fellow citizens would be able to offer them as collateral to obtain valuable papers. It was about a system of cheap, I emphasize, low-cost mortgage lending, especially in housing construction. What does it mean to be cheap? Let's talk about the pyramid of MMM and the famous Leona Dove, who every night from every screen of television was involved in this affair. How did this end? There is no MMM, there is no Leoni, but there are poor Russian, Ukrainian, and other former Soviet people. In what housing building can these securities be used? In the construction of the so-called penthouses, they are already numbered in Kiev and other district centers with a price of up to $2,000 per square metre, or for multifamily families, who have been waiting decades to move their line, and they're only 1-2 percent per year? The question is rhetorical. These bills are a hole in the bubble for the poor and the bubble itself for those who have already become rich and want to become even richer. Therefore, our faction cannot support such bills and will not do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u42	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Get ready for Bandurca.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u43	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners. Of course, the bills passed by the government deserve support. [[7484 on mortgage securities and 7482 also apply to the same direction]] How about the warnings we have today in our faction and what we would like to take very seriously about these bills. Bill 7482 proposes to amend and amend more than 16 laws. Of course, the conclusions that we have today in the hands of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are proposed to support. But the tens point is to these two bills. So I would like to suggest to the government, in some way, those who have been actively involved in preparing for the Supreme Council to have these bills, so that they can weigh some points. We still don't understand, but we're going to allow the bill to define the powers of executives and local self-government authorities in the area of replacing the old housing fund, how to conduct competitions involving investors, builders, to implement reconstruction projects, to replace the old housing fund. The socialists have to be supportive. Eventually, people, even those of old age, should be given a normal home. Or those who have settled in their parents ’ place in such cartilages will speak, even though they have played a major role in their time, giving people at least a place to live. But still, 10 billion government guarantees in the budget are clearly related to the bills that we're going to consider, that's 7485, 7487. To whom do we give assurances, men of honor? Government guarantees, budget guarantees. And once again, these guarantees can spread out that someone is going to take credit, someone is going to tear them apart, and they're going to put it in court or whatever, and then we're going to say, let's let the government compensate for these people. Well, can we guarantee that today? Let's take these 10 billion with us to education and say that education will be free of charge, which has been announced in our joint agreement between the President and the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. And then it will certainly be order. Thus, we give guarantees or guarantee that officials will be as law - abiding as they would like. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u44	Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you, too. Alexander Markovich Bandurka, a faction of the People’s Party, is invited to perform. Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u45	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party Dear Head, honourable national deputies, today there are a number of normative acts in Ukraine, including laws that regulate civil law relations in the area of mortgage lending and circulation of securities. There are four such laws besides the Civil Code. But there is no special law that is dedicated to mortgage securities, and it has already welcomed the draft law that is being proposed today, one and the other. And in particular, the valuable articles of the second project are that it defines terms, including contracts for the preservation of real value, mortgage securities, their definition, specialized mortgage institutions. And here's the question: a centralized special mortgage facility -- a financial institution whose exclusive type of activity is the acquisition of mortgage assets and the issuance of mortgage bonds. What is a special financial institution? We know that there is a State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets on the release and circulation of mortgage securities. There's the National Bank of Ukraine about banks. With regard to the activities of other financial institutions, a specially authorized executive body. And if we go on following the text of both bills, we'll see a whole series of disagreements, I'd say so delicately-legally indecisive, because the definition of different terms will actually determine the essence of the same legal norm. And these terms that are proposed do not always match what is in the mortgage lending law with a consolidated mortgage. The term "master" doesn't match what's in the Code of Masters. The changes proposed in the bills governing mortgage coverage, mortgage securities, are not in line with the laws that are in force today. And in general, these two laws bring amendments and additions to the 25 laws that are in force. That's why I'd like to. The faction proposes that the law be adopted in the first reading in order to be further developed, but on second reading, all these observations that are being made here must be taken into account, especially with regard to the contradictions that exist between the projects and the laws that are already in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u46	Yes, thank you, Alexander Markovich. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Why don't you invite the national MPs, or we'll decide what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u47	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka faction, Yavorovsko-Žovkovsky constituency, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues, I think we've come together to see that such a bill is absolutely necessary. Of course, we may even have approached him late because we were always afraid that there was something about this bill. But they looked at it through this bubble hole, and they saw it not at all what they see around the world, because the mortgage works, the mortgage securities are all over the world. And I understand very well that all the time, if we were to scare each other with former pyramids built and trust affairs, and we weren't going to move any further, I think that would be very and very wrong. Because of the very idea of adopting this law, there is no reference to us or to our faction. However, this has already been said, once again, I would like to emphasize that the very technology of law and order is not being maintained. Indeed, we need to consider making changes to other legislative acts so that the bill can work. Why is this law so necessary today, and the law itself on mortgages and mortgage securities. But because we have a very scattered society today. If almost all were once as poor, there are people today who are fantastically rich and fantastically poor. And in fact, we need to make this law work for the poor, not just the rich. What do I mean? We are already as cautiously approaching the minefield as we are: by no means just touching the earth. I'm not imposing anything on anyone, but together with you, let's say a young, 30-year-old boy who's married lives in a village. Where can he take loans to start his farming, where? Who will listen to him in the bank if he has only an old bicycle and a parent’s home? Because I'm leading this to what, of course, if he had the ability to lay as mortgage material, let's say a bank as collateral for some one or two hectares of land and take a small loan under it, what's wrong with that? I am well aware that the drunkard will tomorrow drink the money he will take, but we are not going anywhere from him; that is what our society is today. And that, of course, has to be done. And why is this law so blocked? Since we still haven't cut the dirt in kind, he doesn't even know where his patch is. If we do that, tomorrow our oligarchs won't be able to capture thousands of hectares like my own Winchin, and the peasant doesn't know where his land is. I am convinced that this bill should be adopted, but there is much work to be done between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft laws of Law 7484, 7482 have been discussed. For reasons we still had three men enrolled. So they get the right to speak out of motives. Shurma, please. Invite the people's deputies to the session room, and we'll make an effective decision now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u49	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine is aware of the need for the adoption of the draft Law on Mortgage Securities and the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine concerning the Development of Mortgage Relations. [[united]] But the faction, taking into account that within 120 days, 30 national MPs who today have failed to exercise parliamentary powers violate the Constitution, articles 78 and 120, the Ukrainian State Service Act and the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act continue to mock and disregard the Basic Law of Ukraine, do not keep their basic promises, the faction of Social Democrats will not vote in favour of government bills until they submit their mandates or release them from their jobs. [[United]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, the procedure is over. from Ratushny's motives, please. I'm happy with the motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the position of the Ukrainian People’s Party comes not from the position of other factions but from the position of the Constitution. We also believe that compatibility does not meet the basic law. Unfortunately, today the faction was unable to assemble in its entirety, but by a majority of votes it supported the position that the faction would not vote, taking part in the vote if the position on the accomplices was not decided as soon as possible. Personally, as the initiator of this position, I will not take part in the vote. Once again, this position comes, not from the position of other parliamentary factions, but from the Basic Law, whose anniversary we will soon mark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, today we're going to have a 15-hour Conciliation Council meeting, I remind you again, in the conference room, where we're going to be looking at the problem, including the accomplices. Now let's separate one problem from the other and support government initiatives. What's more, it's about people. May I have your attention, please? Please prepare for the vote. Please note, fellow Members, that the proposal for a committee to adopt a draft law on mortgage securities, registration number 7484, is put to the vote. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:48:40]] For 227 Decision taken. May I have your attention, fellow officers? The factions, please. Our Ukraine -81, Communists -0, Ukraine -31, People's Party -32, Block Timoshenko -36, SPU -0, Ukrainian People's Party - 12, SDPU -0, Democratic Ukraine -0, Ukraine -9, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -5, Democratic Initiatives -11, non-fractional -10. Dear colleagues! Please, calm down. The following Bill 7482, which logically stems from the previous decision we made. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts, registration number 7482. [[on Mortgage Development]] Please vote. [[10:49:47]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Our Ukraine -79, Communists -0, Ukraine -29, People's Party -31, Block Timoshenko -36, SPU -0, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, SDPU -0, Democratic Ukraine -0, Ukraine -6, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -3, Democratic Initiatives -10, non-fractional -12. Dear colleagues! Who, please, has failed, they say, to vote. Who, in order to return to the consideration of Law 7482, is to return to consideration. Here comes the vote. Please vote. [[10:50:40]] For 211 The decision is not made. Who's in charge of re-reading the draft law, registration number 6482. Please vote. [[10:51:05]] For 228 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, registration number 7541, has been announced for consideration. This is a rule, your colleagues: for the report, up to 5 of them, the answer to the question to the reporter, 3 minutes, for the co-report, 3 minutes, discussion and decision-making, 15 minutes. Is there no objection? No, the report invites the head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Andriy Viktorovich, please. Prepare Vitalia Ivanovich Majko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the main problems that exist in today's liberal system, in the field of economic activity, are the great deadline for obtaining documents of a permissive nature: from 6 months to 1.5 years. A significant amount of the costs incurred by an entrepreneur in the course of permit procedures, the absence, or the lack of information, regarding the procedures for obtaining documents of a permissive nature, the dispersion of the location of the authorities, the closure and the appropriate non-motivity of the decision-making process, the duplication of the requirements of the authorities and the documents provided. At present, administrative services are provided, which are in some way linked to the granting of permits, by more than 20 government agencies. The total number of such services exceeds 1,000. The cost is up to 5,000 dollars. The main reasons for such a situation include the huge number of legal acts of various levels around 2000 and the existence in Ukraine of more than 1,200 types of permits that cause unwarranted money and time spent by entities, a wide range of citizens and have a corresponding negative impact on the income of the state budget. On average, the owner must keep four permits for which some 4,000 dollars are to be paid. Ukraine’s draft Law on the Free System of Economic Activities allows for the introduction of solutions to the problems listed below at the legislative level. The bill - generalized act proposed for consideration lays down basic principles for the functioning of the permit system in the field of economic activity and the most important principles and standards for regulating the relevant legal relations that arise between government authorities and economic operators. The operation of the permit system provides that the obligation to obtain a document of a permissive nature is determined only by law, I emphasize. With the adoption of the project, there should be a cancellation of the secondary legislation if it imposes an obligation to obtain permits not provided for by law. The bill provides for a rule that lays down, by law alone, the only requirements for the issuance of permits that will facilitate the introduction of a single state policy in the field of entrepreneurship. A permit is being issued in cities, areas, and regions. cities, Kiev and Sevastopol according to the principle of organizational unity, which provides for the presence of an administrator, an official of the relevant authority, operating within the existing staffing structure and ensuring the interaction of the subjects of the permit process. Methodologically ensuring the activities of administrators and arbitrary authorities and monitoring compliance with the requirements of legislation on the issue of documents of a permissive nature rests on a specially authorized body. In doing so, it will be exercised exclusively within the limits of the competence given to it. The law also proposes to determine possible application of the message principle, which provides for the declaration of compliance by the subject of his material and technical base with the requirements of applicable legislation. The bill introduces a single information policy on the issue of the system of liberty, that is, the principle of openness is being implemented. Administrative responsibility is laid down for violating legislation on the issue of the permit system in the field of economic activity, both of the owners and of the officials of the authorized authorities. The details of the mechanisms for attracting responsibilities will be established when amendments and additions are made to legislative acts after the adoption of this law. The bill establishes a standard according to which documents of a permissive nature remain valid in the case of lease contracts, other contracts for the temporary use of objects entered into service by other entities. This standard is not distributed to potentially dangerous objects. The result will be: a significant reduction in the time limit for obtaining documents three times, a reduction in the cost of getting permits almost twice, a communication with the administrator only, a joint survey of objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u54	Please 30 seconds to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u55	Provide information to subjects, increase the number of subjects registered in the final account. The adoption of the bill provides an opportunity to introduce European principles at the legislative level for the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, allowing relatively rapid and effective achievement of the first positive developments in the order of the licensing system and the normalization of the entire range of administrative primarily paid services. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific Expert Office, supported by the Professional Committee and the Committee on Economic Policy. Please approve the draft law in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Please ask the reporter. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Three minutes. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, please tell me, because this law, let's say, raises a little bit of a question, but in its technique, it's still a little primitive. Why? Ten little articles and then transitional positions where you try to change both the Administrative Code and, for example, take responsibility for breaking the order of business. Would you not think that this should be done by a very separate law, because it doesn't match the name of this law: the law is called "The Free System in the Field of Economic Activity." And in the final positions, you're actually in charge of violating the order of business and also issuing documents and so on. Why is this legal technique, illiterate, I'll say, applied to Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u58	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u59	Thank you. The purpose of this bill, which is of a framework nature, is to standardize the procedural part of the mechanism of issuing documents of a permissive nature. And it was to the drafter that tried to make it as transparent, simpler, easier to understand both for the owners and for the officials who would do it. It means, really, you're right, you're referring to the adoption of an extra separate bill after the adoption of this framework project, which will normalize the issues that you've been talking about in the second part of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u60	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u61	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Andriy Viktorovich, of course, all relationships in society need to be regulated by law, it is right. So I understand that the procedure for granting permits that existed before this time and that there was, she meant not to let the frauds go into business. But it turned out that in most cases it was the frauds who were missing the system. And that's why it's been blooming all around. So to speak, bribery. How do you feel that the bill will not allow bribes to continue along with things that will be simplified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u62	Thank you. Well, there's two parts, so to speak, technological, imperative, and psychological. On one side of the rule of law, in fact, tested already in Ukraine, works more than a hundred over a year, more than a hundred single offices. And it's the results of their work, which are practically completely positive, that we can talk about reducing time to issue permits three times, and almost double the cost, including the total exclusion of non-normals, as it were, the cost of entrepreneurs. As for anti-corruption mechanisms, it is the role of the administrator, which stresses, that he is an official within the existing, active staffing of the relevant authority, that is, a new vertical with additional budgetary costs is not created, but the administrator performs, on the one hand, a function for the authorized authorities only of the technical coordinator of the process, for the applicant of the business owner is a person who does not, in turn, make the final decision. This dysfunction in the activities of the administrator, in our belief to a large extent or completely, we can't say it, excludes the corrupt intentions that a party can carry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u63	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u64	The faction of Volodymyr Litvina Alexander Shevchenko, 39 constituency, Dnipropetrovščina Dear Andrew Viktorovich! According to the bill, only administrators will be asked for permission if it is accepted. Please tell me if the administrator system is not in place by 1 January 2006, and the operators will no longer be able to obtain permits, since the system of administrators is not designed, rather, to submit documents directly to the authority issuing the permits, they will no longer be able to do so by law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u65	This question, as it were, is hypothetical and exceeds the limits of our competence, but we discussed in the process of preparing for the first reading of the bill the possibility of free choice for the subject of farming, that is to say, to work either under a scheme of law or to approach the authorities directly. I think that these issues can be discussed, worked out, and made in a second-reading way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u66	Thank you. Please sit down, Andrey Viktorovich. The report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Vitaly Ivanovich Majko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u67	Mother, a Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Free Trade, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to improve the free system in the field of economic activity, to define the basic principles of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature, and to introduce the European principles of its issuance. The members of the committee believe that the draft law will allow for the resolution of painful issues related to the development of small businesses, since the existing permit system significantly impedes the establishment and development of businesses. We believe that the draft law will allow for an order of action to be taken to create businesses and allow the deadline to be considerably reduced before their work begins. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 30.05, believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the following comments and suggestions. In view of the above, the members of the committee propose to adopt the draft law as a basis and consider it appropriate to expedite its development for second reading with a view to adopting it at the current session. It is absolutely necessary to adopt this bill, because we believe that the members of the Committee of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, today, are very terrible. We have examples in all cities, in letters to us, of order. It seems to us that this bill provides an opportunity to sort things out and, if there are any observations in the second and other readings, make a comment to it. Now there's a request to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. We have 15 minutes. Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u69	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The process of obtaining documents for a particular type of economic activity should make it easier for a system that is one of the most complex, confusing, and corrupt systems. That's why today we need to reform the allowable system by regulating the legal framework, because, as we know, the state's activities in this area are governed by 106 laws and almost one and a half thousand sectoral acts. I was approached by an entrepreneur who wanted to open a store in the city. But he faced a host of unneeded formalities. The first thing to do is to collect 29 signatures, namely the fire department, the sanitary epidemiology, labor security, safety technology, ecology and so on. These include almost 90 percent of all the problems that arise. This is not State control. And if it's control, it's just stopping the development of entrepreneurship and giving nothing to the state. Hence, the control service should not go along the lines of expansion but should follow the responsibilities of the subject and the predefinition. Therefore, it is urgent that the process or procedure for obtaining a permit be automatically implemented. Even before the entrepreneur is granted permission, he should know in advance what documents he needs, how to fill them, and must give this package to one of his officials, and he has this permission. Entrepreneurs have repeatedly proposed that permits be granted free of charge and on an uninterrupted basis. Communists have supported and supported the development of entrepreneurship, but we do not idealize business subjects, we are responsible for real state policy in the development of entrepreneurship, and we are in favour of real enterprise assistance, and we are in the process of removing all corruption barriers to obtaining permission or a license to start our own business. We're constantly fighting against the corruption of our own structures, and we're demanding an immediate end to what we call, the voluntary contributions of the entrepreneur to get a license or a license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u70	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine" has a word for this. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! As before, the government does not have the complexity to deal with these issues. I'm drawing your attention now, Reverend Victor Mikhailovich, to this. As previously pointed out to the government of Yanukovic, today I am pointing out to the government of Timoshenko that we should look at things a little bit wider. What do I mean? You and I, including at my suggestion my bill on the principles of state regulatory policy in the field of economic activity, have adopted this important document. We could now add to this document these few norms that are in this law, and solve all the absolute issues. But we went the other way, we went the new way, let's say, not the law, but the end, the little ending, which introduces new approaches to the arbitrary system. In principle, this principle is positive, it needs to be supported, but we're not going to support the principle, we're going to support the law, and the law has to be more serious about what it should be, which is a document of a permissive nature, this article 1, that these are documents issued by government authorities, let's go: what are these organs? Sanepidadem stations, fire stations and everything. But we have to predict otherwise this law will give people absolutely nothing when you meet with it. That's one, two, we have to see clearly right now what and where, so that we don't make an unnecessary link in the person of the administrator. Article 7: The order of the local authorities to issue a permit for the project: The owner, or the authorized person, submits an application to the administrator, which should contain, goes according to what. And directly to the authority that issues us, are we taking the right into the subject? You can't, you have to write, "or you give it to him, or you give it to the administrator." There's got to be some kind of choice in a person and an alternative, more loyal to a legal person. In particular, I would like to say that now that we have even adopted this Law, and in the first reading I will ask you to support it and support it, there will be a need to make changes and there will be differences in the application of other laws that have entered into force today. Therefore, changes to those laws should be made in connection with the adoption of the Law. And finally, administrative responsibility, article 164 here is completely irrelevant to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u72	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u73	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I have a new bill under consideration by the Government of Capitalist Ministers, but I would like to point out that, in comparison to other cases, the government seems to me that, in my opinion, a professional mining engineer of geophysics should be supported. And why I'm asking that question. I'm going back to drug-using and drug-using activities. According to the Code of Nadra in order to engage in drug-using activities, you have to get two documents: the license on the nadr area, everybody knows that, everybody gets it, and in what way everybody knows the same thing. And the second. The Nadra Code provides for permission to carry out professional farming activities in the field of drug use. So I want to say, the whole second part, it's blocked by modern business users. At the previous session, I introduced a bill on the need for a permit and the introduction of a system of permits from commercial activities in drug use. But unfortunately, unfortunately, there are business forces in this session room, some corporate interests have taken precedence over national interests. So again in this session, I renewed this bill and submitted it for consideration. And I'm very much asking you, colleagues, let's get you and me into business activity for drug abuse. To this day, we have only one thing: getting permission to extract uranium ore. And the naphtogas, the iron ore, the other useful fossils, will even come from a firm called the nearest mare tail, and it will get a license for the area of nadr and will, without experience, engage in drug-using activities. What does this lead to? To predatory use: came, used, and fled. Because they're not professionals, and they don't want to be professional. So I personally support the question of how to organize such activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u74	Mikhailo Melniczuk, the PSU faction has a word. Prepare Vitalia Šibk. Out of the way, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u75	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. Of course, there are many comments to him, but we believe that he will be accepted on the basis of his comments and, of course, that he will submit his comments to the second reading. The bill submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council sets out the principles for the operation of the system of permits. Many of us wanted to do so in our own time in the state, but it was all about corruption taking over. And it must have been very difficult to get through an enterprise that had been cut off. And many of them in general gave up their entrepreneurial activities or did so in the shadows to feed their families. Today, the government's attempt to get it out of the shadows and make it a transparent allowable system so that it's simplified. There have already been examples in a country where such a system is being introduced in some regions. And perhaps the regions are already ahead of Parliament. So we just have to hurry. And I'm going to the government so that we can look at the holidays, consider this bill, and accept it to enable our entrepreneurs to work. And a few words, I'd like to get some examples out of my life. Yesterday, I visited a delegation from Mikolayivska, the Krivoozer region, the village of Oceretna. Dear friends, for two years now, as compensation has been received to the peasants for their land plots, which they have taken part of the areas under, we will talk about the road that was built by Kiev-Odessa. And there is a leader who, after almost a million dollars, has not issued a single bracelet to 43 peasants who have been passing through their land! So, please, fight corruption. What do you think? The local court supported this manager -- no abuse. I think there are many such examples. Or take an example in the Visnicke district of Cherniewets, the Lopushnian oil mine. Where I've already talked about this, I've been asking where they're used, the oil permit, there's no paper, there's no tax, there's no taxes, there's no local budget, there's work, we'll talk, as with Kuchma, and they're working today. And no one can get in the way of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u76	Vitalia Šibka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Fast, socialist faction, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, I think that Andrew Viktorovich, who reported this bill, made some mistake when he said how many windows should be passed by one of those start-ups, or someone who wants to do something -- not 20, but 40, I want all the government officials who are in favour of this law today to know. And why I want to say that sometimes these windows have to be passed not once, but three times, four times, because that's the way the system of this reconciliation is made up. So if, for example, we're going to take a water channel, we have to first, I say by memory, we have to go through the technical conditions first, then we have to make a contract, then we have to agree to do the work, and then when you put into service what's already done, we have to get 15 more signatures. So not only do I call it 40 windows, but I have to multiply by three, by four, because I still have to go through every window. And it was called money. So, I want to say, probably, to our government officials, and that's what those who do this stuff know, no one in their bracelets takes what you're going to get signed up for, they take in dollars. And when they call it a sum there -- one-and-a-half thousand dollars, one-and-a-half thousand dollars -- it's called a thousand dollars and more. So I wonder at times how we're still in business, how these people actually endure, how they go through this hell to develop their jobs, to develop their businesses, to create jobs, and so on. They need to give some of the State’s marks at all, perhaps, in order for the person to be active. Now it's a bill. I hate to say that we're going to do this, that we're going to support this bill. But don't we create another big window in these administrators, and we refer to European experience. I mean, there's no such experience in Europe, there's notaries in Europe and there's lawyers who work privately, who spend all the money you need to collect these signatures. And they work in Europe: first, if you have land, you buy it, you build it, and then you start collecting signatures. And we're doing it the other way around. And this bill would probably have to predict that. And there's still a very interesting detail about administrative misconduct. Please state what criteria are there for attracting a firefighter for administrative responsibility. He's got it. Any firefighter will create something that this material is hot and cannot be used, even if you give him a few. So this isn't going to work part of it. I'm saying. That's why I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u78	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Just a minute. The bill has been completed. I ask your honourable colleagues to prepare for the vote. With three minutes of motivation, please sign in. With three minutes of motivation, please. Yuri Carmazin, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you to take the first reading, first. Secondly, I'm going to ask the government, I don't know, the truth of why it rarely comes to us here in the Prime Minister's Hall, but I'm going to ask the government to now determine which legislative acts in connection with this legislative act need to be amended and supplemented so that we can immediately adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Legislative Acts that will result from the adoption of this Act on Allowance System. Because this reminds me of how we helped us adopt the State Budget Act by engulfing our own manufacturer. So we're going to adopt the law, and it won't work unless it's fully operational today. So let us do this in parallel so that very quickly we can make life easier for our entrepreneurs and citizens of Ukraine and destroy corruption in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u80	Kalinczuk, please, the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give Volodymyr the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u82	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our faction supports the position of this bill. We believe that any improvement in the simplification of the licensing process is currently being made, and we are also ready to work on this bill in the second reading. But I would like to draw the attention of government officials that we support your positions, but let's see what's going on today with those farms that can't get a license to get the same sand today? Because there are farms that have been unable to reach their careers for six months now. Please do this as soon as possible, because I've been in the district, in the district, having a farm that's been walking for six months and asking for a license. Well, don't be absurd! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u83	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u84	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that the faction will normally also vote in favour of this bill. I think it would have to be voted on as soon as possible in the first, second reading and as a whole, because we really need to simplify the system of handing out documents that would simplify the business, including the license. And I would like to point out that the government now needs to be more closely monitored especially by those projects, those businesses that ask and require licensing, because until we had a criminal government before, let's say, very often in a criminal field, the licenses seemed chaotic and unfounded, and people were accordingly not even following him, but they were negotiating for some other reason. Now, in order for everyone in the legal field to work, it is necessary to help the government simplify their licenses, help entrepreneurs, but at the same time make sure that everything is okay with the licenses for the already active activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Will you stop the rally for a moment, please? The draft shall be put to the vote. for adoption as a basis of the draft Law on the Free System of Economic Activities. Registration number 7541. Please vote. [[11:27:46]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the issues that we have discussed before, so I would like to ask the rapporteurs to speak briefly -- in three minutes -- on the draft decision, and without discussion, we're going to vote, because we've already discussed these issues. An exception will be made to the budgetary resolution. A draft decree on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 on the outcome of the hearings on May 20 is being announced for consideration. Please, Ludmila Pavlovna Surpun. In three minutes and we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Allow me to brief you, as soon as possible, in three minutes, on the draft Decree proposed by the Budget Committee regarding the government's report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the 2004 State Budget. It is understandable why there is such a brief procedure for approving such a report today. As we emphasized at the parliamentary hearings, when the report of the government being heard today is submitted for the implementation of the Budget Act by the previous government, there is not much interest in it, but I would like only to turn to the next. First of all, about macro-indicators and their impact on the implementation of the State Budget Act. I must point out that all the figures predicted during the adoption of the 2004 Budget Act have been met with a budget committee of up to 150 million. Yet this differs from government proposals and from our approved Budget Act to about 6 billion. So once again, we want to confirm that all the proposals made by the Budget Committee at the adoption of the 2004 Budget Act were exactly aligned with the predictive macro-indicators. I want to draw the attention of today’s government to the next. Victor Mikhailovich, in the government report, we approve the macro-indicators of the previous year, and I ask you not to take any action, not to manipulate any figures on the possible undercalculation of the figures achieved in 2004, because that will be your political responsibility, because this report is being submitted by your government. We propose to introduce an appropriate standard of legislation to ensure the following. In the event that any government is authorized or retired, it is obliged to report within 30 days on the implementation of the State Budget Act and to transmit all the matters it is conducting with regard to the new government's budget. Only in this way can we really distinguish the responsibility of one government compared to the next. In the very text of the Committee's ruling, we propose that the following text be added to the Committee: the General Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the facts of the records provided by the Court of Auditors, the General Audit Office, regarding the budgetary misdemeanours detected to respond to them in a timely manner and to bring the relevant cases to justice to the responsibility of the persons concerned. I don't really have time left, the text of the ruling is on your hands, and I think he's taken all the suggestions of the national MPs into account. Please accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u87	Yes. Thank you, Your Honor, for your reasons, please sign in for three minutes. For reasons of vote, please have five minutes. Ludmila Paulina, please rest for the time being. The motivations will now be for our distinguished colleagues. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support the adoption of a decree on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004. And I also support the proposal now made by our colleague, Ludmila Suprun, that the government is going to report. But here, before this proposal, you also have to write that along with the government report, you have to have a report from the accounting office -- once, the Attorney General's Office -- two and the tax administration-- three. Why did I call these organs? I called these organs because last year, the tax return on the added value was about 30 billion. It's terrible, it's more serious than that. We need to watch, analyze and know right away. So all these institutions of the State have a responsibility, because they are just to ensure the existence, the normal existence of the economy of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u89	Yes. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u90	Gurenko, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u91	Catherine Samuel, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u92	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of this issue because we did not vote in favour of the 2004 budget. Moreover, we have a great deal of attention to this budget. For example, I completely disagree with the fact that we have an economy that has been compensated, by, more faithfully, for the loss of credit. So the government policy was that the loans were inconvenient, so the money was left behind, the money was gone, and if it wasn't gone, they usually went in a completely different direction. Unfortunately, I'd like to warn Victor Mikhailovich, which is exactly the situation right now. On Friday, I raised the question that today the State Budget is being broken in terms of the implementation of the program of selection, in terms of the implementation of the program of cost - of - production loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u93	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. We realize that this has been the case today: there was a government running a budget last year, and today there is a very different government reporting for the implementation of the budget. This really makes our work a little more difficult. But the People's Party faction will support this project and vote for it. At the same time, we would recommend a new composition of the government to take into account the shortcomings that have been expressed, and I support Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and the House of Accounts and other bodies here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u95	National Deputy Corge, please microphone. Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u96	Thank you. Our faction will also support this bill. But for a more detailed explanation, please hand over Kirilchuk to Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u97	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Indeed, the faction will support this decision to make a report to the public. The fact of the matter is that even the flaws that are expressed are included as flaws. Because of this, it is wrong to reason with others, to talk about what was wrong with those who were flaws, and we will not support them. The only point to be made is that in the supplement that Ludmila Suprun was talking about, we should write not "appropriate persons" but "guilty persons" to the responsibility of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u99	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u100	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support this decision. Moreover, what government in general we will listen to, if not, is a new government. But the faction must raise some questions to the new government so that there are no mistakes made by the past government. It means that we have repeatedly, socialists, highlighted the issue of agriculture in Ukraine. We're on the verge of harvesting early grains. The issue of fuel supply is not resolved, nor is the question of the price of Derezers for grain to be grown by peasants resolved until the end. How many questions in the village have not been resolved. So I would like the new government to take those mistakes into account, not allow them, and thus report on the results of 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u101	Yes. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. More specifically, the question has been discussed. There is a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree on the implementation of Ukraine's 2004 State Budget Act as a regulation. Registration number 7521. Please vote. [[11:38:05]] For 259. Decision taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 81, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 5, People's Party - 31, Block Timoshenko - 36, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 10, SDPU(o) -0, "Democratic Ukraine" -20, "One Ukraine" -17, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine -10, "Democratic Initiatives" -10, non-fractional - 13. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is a draft regulation on the approval of the 2006 Basic Directions of Budget Policy. There are two projects: a project proposed by the government, as well as a project commissioned by its own committee on the results of parliamentary hearings. Taking into account the importance of this document, such a regime is proposed, regardless of the fact that we have discussed this issue, in line with the committee’s suggestions: to speak to the committee’s first deputy head of the Committee on Budgetary Policy, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovni date 10 minutes, five minutes to question if they arise in national deputies, five minutes to finance ministers and three minutes to question and 10 minutes to communicate. No warning? And then get to making the right decision. Ten minutes, because we've already been doing budget hearings on this subject. But given the importance of this document. And one minute at a time, let's just write it down like we do with our motivations and exchange of thoughts. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I remind you that on June 1st, Parliamentary hearings on budgetary policy were held in the Supreme Council in 2006. And as a result of these parliamentary hearings, the Budget Committee has generalized all the proposals that have come from the National Deputies from individual factions and relevant committees of the Supreme Council, which have applied to the direction of budgetary policy for 2006. After considering the document presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, we looked at the following: I am the name of the 12 differences that today specify the budget resolution submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, it should be noted that the draft of the Basic Directions of Budget Policy is still submitted in violation of the deadline for submission, as defined in part two of Article 33 of the Budget Code. The requirements of part three of article 33 of the Budget Code regarding the next boundary structure of the State Debt for 31.12.2006 are not met. The Cabinet of Ministers’ proposals do not contain the justifications and calculations of the amount of inter-budgetary transfers in the state budget. Unfortunately, there is no definition and another very important indicator is the level of provision for the 2006 subsistence minimum required by Article 33. In our view, instead of specific ways of implementing it, unfortunately, there are direct directions for the work programme of the Cabinet of Ministers "To Meet People," and they are oriented not only for 2006 but also for the medium term, which does not meet the requirements of the document. Now I'm going to stop at specific government positions and proposals for them by the budget committee. First, the government is offering reasonable inflation rates, at the same time calling a completely different number - 9 percent. According to economic theory, inflation is at five percent. The Budget Committee notes that in 2006 it is necessary to achieve macroeconomic stability by reducing inflation rates compared to the projected 2005 level and by stabilizing the exchange rate. The document submitted by the government does not specify the substance of the changes to the relevant legislation. And the government is proposing once again to regulate certain provisions of legislation in the draft State Budget Act for the following year. The Budget Committee notes that such an offer is unacceptable. The Supreme Council needs to urgently submit a bill, such as a simplification of the tax system, a single social contribution, including a reduction in the tax burden on the pay-for-work fund and a reduction in the VAT rate, and to facilitate their acceptance by the end of this session. In addition, we believe that it is necessary to ensure that part 2 of Article 7 of the Law on the System of Taxation on the Inability to Establish New, Change or Cancel Existing Taxes and Congregations is clearly implemented by the State Budget Act. In addition, we believe that laws that are not secured must be brought to the fore. amending legislative acts that are not budgeted for 2006. In addition, with a view to increasing budget revenues, we recommend that we review the basic standards for the use of nadras, for the extraction of useful fossils. You know, over the last two years, the Supreme Council has adjusted these figures, but they're still not sufficiently differentiated. They need to be put in place depending on the geological, economic and geographical characteristics of the fossil deposits, as well as the standards of the congregation for pollution of the environment. We believe that it is possible to consider raising the amount of rent for natural gas, oil and gas condensate that is being extracted in Ukraine. Third. In order to ensure the quality implementation of the State Budget Act, it is imperative that the Committee include, for 2006, a rule on the development and approval of all legal and regulatory provisions for the implementation of the State Budget Act 2006 for 30 calendar days, so that we do not happen as we do today: it is almost half past year, and we do not yet have any rules to specify the allocation of capital expenditure of investment funds to local budgets. The government document does not focus on ensuring timely and full recovery of government loans and repayment of debts over the past years. Therefore, we propose in the Budget Resolution that constant monitoring and monitoring of the activities of the operators receiving such loans be carried out. By supporting the government’s proposal to strengthen the investment component of the budget, we believe that it should focus on other principles, primarily on fulfilling the State’s obligations in the fields of culture, education, science, ecology, medicine, sports, the preservation of architectural and cultural heritage, housing and road construction. By the way, the committee is proposing for the following year to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on "Road Finance Sources" in a 100% range. In addition, we propose to channel investment costs towards housing reform, social protection and the agricultural sector. What I'm saying is that the draft ruling did not include a Masterskin proposal, and I want to correct this error right now, with regard to the next year's allocation of 10 percent of the state budget to support the development of the agricultural sector, the provision of the social sphere of the village. We also require that direct funding be allocated to address environmental problems and that a separate government project be developed on the implementation of the law on protection of those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. And we're also proposing the privatisation costs that the government wants exclusively for debt repayment, the elimination of budget deficits, in fact, to focus on investment development next year, on job creation. The program, which the government has been working on for several years and which deals with the bank's interest compensation, we think is outdated and is wrong, because today Ukraine has to go a very different way, it has to create European lending conditions for any sector of the economy in order to move from lending trade to lending on a medium- and long-term basis of production itself. This is the only way to create jobs. We're proposing. We also specify that the minimum wage in 2006 will be 400 dollars per month and it is necessary to ensure an inter-mission ratio in the budget area on the basis of a single tariff network. We think it's necessary to anticipate an increase in the standard of living for 2006. As far as local budgets are concerned. An extremely important question. The committee adopted such a proposal at its meeting, supported it by providing sufficient financial resources to discharge the delegated powers of the state and by providing for an increase of 45 per cent in the value of the local general budget fund. This is not taking into account the expenditure incurred to cover the deficit of the Pension Fund’s pension fund. As you know, this year the level of local budgeting is extremely low and represents 36.4 percent. We believe that the budget law for the following year should not be included in the articles that limit income to local budgets. We also propose not only to support the government's proposal to increase capital expenditure on local budgets against the 2005 indicator, but first and foremost to propose clear mechanisms, criteria, direction of use of such resources and allocation between regions in the form of subsidies. We also propose another proposal to complement, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. This is a proposal from the Committee on Economic Policy, which unfortunately did not come into the fold since it was presented a little later. It's about the next one. It applies to all the National Economic and Social Development Programmes of Ukraine being submitted in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes. It is also necessary to submit to the Supreme Council projections of economic and social development over the medium term, not just for 2006, taking into account the assessment of the level of economic and social development achieved, the impact of external factors, economic and other factors, expected trends, the change in the impact of these factors in the perspective based on a comprehensive analysis of the demographic situation. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to pay attention to the following. The proposal contained in our decision, presented by the Committee on Budgets, states that we are proposing the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2006 to take note. However, while working with the Cabinet of Ministers, I think this will now be confirmed by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, all the proposals of the budget committee contained in this decision have been considered by the government and found its full support. There is no record of these suggestions and of the assignments contained in the decree today. That's why we propose to accept our decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the deputies, members of the committee, taking into account the addition of paragraph one where we have written that the Basic Directions of Budget Policy for 2006 are given by the Cabinet of Ministers to "get to know," to write not "get to know" but "to approve." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u103	Ludmila Pavlovna. Dear colleagues! Any questions to the committee's first deputy head? Yes, sir. Please sign up for three minutes. Please, let's do three. Bespaly Boris Jakovitch, please, your question, from the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u104	Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear Ludmila Pavlovno! Our faction in general will support the position that you and the draft budget resolution have stated and will vote in favour. So I have a relatively partial question, I think, mostly from the State Building Committee and local self-government. What you said in context, I think it's so optimistic. But I'm curious about the next question. Under Ukraine's laws, there are quite a lot of benefits: travel, housing and utilities, and so on. In fact, these benefits fall on utilities, that is, on the budgets of cities, because even on separate businesses. What method is proposed to compensate for the granting of these benefits to the occupants, the transporter and so on, so that the sector is not actually lost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u105	In our draft decree, the following proposal is written down: to regulate the legal order for granting such benefits, because today they, their compensation, the mechanism for compensating them, are not legally defined. But we believe that it is necessary to provide financial security for local budgets in such benefits, in the section of each benefit separately — for the provision of communications services, for the provision of travel services. And that's different, by the way, and the budget committee's proposals from the government, so we think we need to make a percentage of compensation for the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u106	Catherine Samuel, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u107	Thank you. We, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, will support this decision, which is developed by the deputies, because both the faction and the committees have really made very many right proposals and they are included in this decree. Ludmila Pavlovna, but I'm interested in such a question, I want you to answer it publicly. First of all, is the funding of youth housing projects reflected. That's the first one. Second, the state support of youth organizations and women, I would like to stress this to you. Because the state is not coping with those very serious problems, such as drug abuse and drunkenness and so forth. And we need to engage the public and the youth and the women's organizations that are now separate from solving these urgent problems. Do you feel that these are the areas you need to maintain?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u108	Dear Catherine Semenovna, I can say that the budget committee, considering the government's proposal, noted that we take housing construction for young people to budget priorities next year. With regard to the support of public organizations, this is also provided for in our proposals. We're proposing not to cut the government down, but to increase the cost of supporting a public organization if we're going to move towards creating a civil society. That's what all the budgets do. We have analysed in detail the budgets of all European countries. They all grant grants without exception, and they provide financial support to public organizations. Not enough, there are special sections called support for gender policy through a budget that provides funding for exactly the kind of public organization that introduces such an approach both in the economy and in politics and in the social community.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u109	Thank you, Sophia Pavlovna. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. We don't have a vote yet, but we agreed that one minute from now, it would be on record. Please, if I may, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We are grateful to those deputies, those factions who have made their proposals to the draft budget resolution, most of which have been taken into account. Many suggestions came from factions, groups. We worked with the budget committee on these proposals. And the vast majority of the government's proposals and assignments agreed. And so many questions put by the deputies and the budget committee are supported by the government. It refers to achieving macroeconomic stability by reducing inflation and stabilizing the exchange rate, bringing the minimum wage to a minimum of living, optimizing the ratio of pay, creating additional jobs, investment and much more. We want to point out that unfortunately, we always have a budget process that's not easy, and it's always a product of political compromise. We want to point out that today is not a budget, and very many norms, very many questions that are being asked by the MPs, cannot be answered in the budget resolution, because the budget resolution defines only the main objectives or orientations of politics. The details of many things have to be done in the budget. And here we're going to have to look for the compromise that happens every year. Because, unfortunately, we have a practice that resembles a famous anecdote. There's a rabbit running, he's caught by a wolf. He wants to know why you're running. But here the Kiev commission came and cut off all the five rabbits. But you only have four. And then they cut and then they count. We understood the desire to achieve within one year or for a period of time the maximum of the problems facing society. But that's not the point. We have some budget resources that we have to share over the next year. We're pretty much aware of that resource. And the logic of dividing this resource can be very simple -- the logic of priorities, the extent to which we achieve one or the other goal, or the purpose of which we refuse. We have worked carefully on the proposals and the supplements, the tasks that have been prepared in the Committee on Budgets, and taking into account those rights that have been proposed by Ludmila Pavelna Suprun and considering that we will seek compromise that has always been made during the adoption of the budget, the government supports the version that Ludmila Pavlovna sounded. The first paragraph of the fine - tuned edition is to endorse the conclusions of the Budget Committee. And the third item is the preparation of the draft budget, along with the tasks and proposals prepared, submitted by the people's deputies, factions and prepared by the Budget Committee. The government is asking for support for such a version, a refined version of the draft budget, of the Budget Resolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u111	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Questions, three minutes, if there are, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we should come to the budget hearings when 20 national deputies speak and then speak. We've had budget hearings, we've been looking at this for four hours. Please, Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u112	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I just wanted to clarify one position that came out in response to the profile committee about the financing of public organizations. I think we all agree that we need to support the creation of the third sector, and we've all found that the impact of social organizations on the various spheres of our lives is useful. But we've got this practice that we have community organizations that are privileged, close, let's say, to someone or something, and they're getting funding. Other social organizations, especially those that are now being created by the citizens of the country, are not being funded. I think it would be appropriate to take into account and, perhaps, some competitive approach or competition by public organizations for budgetary resources, which would stimulate their revitalization. How does the government view this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u113	Obviously and certainly, there can be no discriminatory conditions. But perhaps a good solution would be to place certain government orders with an equal right of admission to address these issues to all public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u114	Taras Blackwall, your question, please, the faction of the Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u115	Victor Mikhailovich, I have a question about the very detective involved in the submission of the Budget Resolution. At first, we had an opportunity to get to know many of us, the one that was presented by the Ministry of Finance, and was organized by you at the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, a new document is emerging. If your first claim to him corresponds to article 33 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the document we are conducting these hearings today is completely out of 33 articles. There are some necessary points that are simply omitted. We vote that the Budget Code does not leave us in fact any other way than to vote in favour of the Budget Resolution and actually give us the mandate of the government. But how did it happen that in one day the document was reformed and a number of specific formulations disappeared from it that could be predicted, what would the next budget look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u116	Nothing changed in one day. It's just that obviously you're talking about different documents. The initial working version of the Ministry of Finance was sent long before June 1st for proposals to MPs and factions and the budget committee. This was actually signed by the Ministry of Finance. It wasn't an official government document -- it was a project to get comments and suggestions. Such comments and suggestions did not come. Then there was work with the MPs and factions there was discussion at the Cabinet of Ministers, and with the participation of the President of Ukraine there was discussion. That's why the document was transformed. Some questions may arise because the structure of the document has been changed. Traditionally, for example, the most recent standards required by the Codex Budget were listed at the end. The structure has now changed, and the answer to the questions provided for in the budget code is contained in the budget resolution itself. Hence, it may be that this raises the question that there is no classical division that we have been accustomed to before, but all the standards provided for in the Codex Budgets we have tried to answer them in this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u117	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u118	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich! It's probably a question and still a warning and a wish to you. You know, when we look at the changes to the budget for the current year, we've practically missed a field like the tourism industry. And what it now refers to is the Ministry of Culture, a tragedy. Now, practically, all of this is being destroyed. I am. I have such a wish for you. First of all, we're both on the income side, and in the expense section, we have to predict everything that's relevant to the tourism industry. Secondly, do I have such a question, does the government think that the tourism sector is an economic sector that can only work for the image of our state, or can it work for the economy of our state? Is that how you're considering this question, will we do what you've done now, which is practically zero support from the state? As we've been looking at the changes, we've actually seen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u119	Thank you. This sector is now evolving dynamically and has prospects for development, because there are positive trends in citizens' incomes. And Ukrainian citizens are starting to use the services of this sector. But here's the philosophical question. This is about the commercial sector of the economy, which has to earn its own income and tax its own budget. And when we talk about budget support, budget support should be about the non-profit sector and a certain spectrum. The government can provide indirect support tools, for example, for lending advertising, because I can inform you that one of the loan options is being considered by us in the project "Crediting International Financial Organizations" on crediting rural tourism development. This is the tool that the government should use, but not the direct funding tools from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. Have a seat, please. We signed up, we agreed on one thing. One minute, we haven't gotten to the vote yet. We've got four men. One minute at a time. Yuri Carmazin, please. Is there a Carmazin? None. Please, Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please turn it on. Then Vladimir Cherniak. No, later, later. Now Vitaly Shibko is speaking. Vladimir Kirilovich, now Vitaly Šibko is speaking, and then you will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u121	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think that, indeed, the Committee on Budgets has thoroughly worked out those proposals that have now come, as opposed to what the government has proposed in its budget resolution. But I would like to point out that when we discussed this issue at the committee meeting, we really confirmed that there is no document today, it wasn't in that document that the government gave, that it was the priority development of our image in the international arena. And that's why the committee just made a proposal to make it. That's the first one. The other one. I still think the budget resolution should be linked to GDP. And if it's not there, then it's very hard to count. And unfortunately, it's not in this or in any other document, although I think we can consider supporting this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u122	Vladimir Cherniak. Then Carmazin, then Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u123	Honorable National MPs. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The main thing, in my opinion, in the Budget Resolution is the logic, the logic of priorities, criteria and mechanisms. When this is clearly written, then it will be a task for the government. I want to pay attention to what's most important. The budget next year should be a development budget. And so there has to be a focus on investment development, on creating a favourable investment climate. First of all, it's about upgrading old manufacturing equipment, introducing new technologies, creating new jobs. I'd like to put an emphasis on increasing the production rate. Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Without an increase in the production rate, the budget cannot be a development budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u124	Yes, Yuri Carmazin. Then Michaela Melniczuk. Microphone, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! We accept a very important document, and I compared the budget resolution given by the government and the one worked by the MPs. Of course, the second is better, but the first one also has something to borrow. For example, in paragraph 12 of our MP project, because I'm going to ask you to back it up, it says, "set a minimum wage of 400 dollars a month." But you have to assume that, given the consumer price dynamics, you're going to have to bring it to 500 dollars by the end of the year. This was also suggested by the government, so it had to be taken from the government in this paragraph 12, and it wasn't done. Of course, I will ask you to accept the commission of the Supreme Council, which is an integral supplement, but it is an integral part of the Budget Resolution. Without him, it is impossible to accept this resolution, so I will ask the MP to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, PPU faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u127	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I'm talking to you. You have just had a conversation with Alexander Alexander Moroz, where you have confirmed that there will be clear support for the pension fund, no delay this year, and that in the following year, there will be a substantial increase in health, education, a culture that will receive at least 15 billion dollars in the 2006 budget. So the faction is that we're going to support the government's direction on the 2006 budget, but we're going to work together on the issues that we agreed on with Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. Please vote for 3 minutes. Please sign up. Is there a recording that I can do? So we're going to have an endless discussion, you know? Dear colleagues, please. Well, George Carmazin signed up, ask him to pass on the word. What can I do, dear colleagues? A lot of people raise their hands, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u129	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Don't insult my fellow Hare, I'd like to give him my word. Mr. John, please continue your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u130	No, Assadchev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u131	Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I was just about to vote. So I realized that if the government has agreed to the alternative to the committee on the proposal made by the Suprun, then we don't vote, because it's a naked decision and we've made a government, and we're only voting one regulation, 7477-D, given what Ludmila Pavlovna said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u133	And the government accepted that offer. Please, Sergey Doroguntsov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I beg the word of Samuel, Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u135	Catherine Seminalic, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u136	Thank you. I would also like to stress and call on my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, because not Carmazin, but the previous speaker said that they would support the government's budgetary resolution. I want to call on everyone, we need to support the MP's budget resolution, which takes into account wishes, more faithfully, the recommendations of all factions, including the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Because of the government's budget resolution, it is very much in favour of one that has already been worked on by the budgetary committee and together with all the people's deputies in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u137	Alexander Pecklushenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u138	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, I wonder why it happens that you have no harmony with the Committee on Budgets at any stage in the preparation of any document, and then it does? Is it not possible to find this harmony early? First question. And second, which concerns all the people's deputies: what about the local budget subsidy? Do we all really care when the money comes for gasification? My constituents in Pologna, Volnjansk, Guliapole say, "It's a good thing, you need real money." If possible, say, when will real money come into the area?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u139	Mikola Shershun, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Chernobyl Disaster Committee, made his proposals. Those who haven't found their reflection in the budget resolution are the first. The development of a health-care system, including sanatorium, and resort, sanatorium and resort treatment. And the second thing that's very important is that we pay off the entire debt to the Chernobyl family. I'm asking Victor Mikhailovich very much, to take these two proposals into account, it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u141	Yes. Dear colleagues, we have already spoken, discussed this issue, so the draft regulation 7477-d deals with the vote, with a clarification: the first item, the main budget directions, the direction of budgetary policy for 2006, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to continue to endorse the text. With this in mind, please vote. [[12:13:06]] For 341 Budget resolution adopted. Thank you. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -84; Communists -1; "Regions of Ukraine" -43; People's Party -36; Block Timoshenko -35; SPU -27; Ukrainian People's Party -20; SDPU(o) -20; "Democratic Ukraine" -20; "One Ukraine" -17; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine -11; "Democratic Initiatives" -11; non-fractional - 16. Dear colleagues, before taking a break, we had two factions calling for a recess. That way, you may make a statement about why you are doing so.? Are you going to say it or not? Rabbit microphone, please turn it on. So they can think about what there is to make. Vladimir Hare, faction of SDPU. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u142	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm asking you to take into account the day that the bill was reported in the session hall, and to take into account how important this law is today, both socially and politically. I am asking you to go back to voting on Bill 7540, which concerns 150 members of the people who can take the bill into account for the charges of the accused or the suspect. I want to refer to the people's deputies and ask them once again, not to refer to this bill as a political one, where, let's say, support or not support their opponents, because the bill has a serious argument and gives reasons to the people's deputies to act as persons who can exercise the right of guarantee. Please put it to the vote today and also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? As far as I know, this was the subject of an agreement between factions in connection with the vote on the previous issue of support and support for the relevant bill. Since such arrangements were among the factions, I was informed by the factions' leaders, so if you don't mind, I'm going to put to a vote in this sequence: a return to the consideration of this project that was previously rejected, and when we return, we can consider accepting as a basis. No warning? I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the Concern of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Seizures. Registration number 7540. Please vote. [[12:16:05]] For 245 We have returned to the consideration of the matter. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 45, People's Party - 25, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 19, "One Ukraine" - 14, Party of Ukrainian Industrialists - 9, "Democratic Initiatives " - 11, Postfaction - 12. Wait, we'll finish the question now, and then we'll take a break. Let's take a break. No, we haven't announced a break yet. So now you can put acceptance on the basis of this document? I'm proposing the adoption of Project 7540 as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote. [[12:17:09]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 54, "Regions of Ukraine" - 46, People's Party - 22, Block Timoshenko - 16, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 20, "One Ukraine" - 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, "Democratic Initiatives " - 11, Postfaction - 8. Dear colleagues, please hold consultations with groups and factions. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u144	Please take your seats, national deputies, and I invite you to come to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, we are under review. There are no people in the session room. What can we talk about? The draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation Regulation "Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine: Current State, Problems and Perspectives of Development" is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the rapporteur again, because we've been looking at this document, and now it's about making decisions so that we don't translate the matter into a full discussion of it. I very briefly ask the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u145	Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there have been parliamentary hearings in May and May on Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine: the state of the art, problems and prospects for development. These parliamentary hearings were attended by representatives of all trade unions with national status, scientists, experts, government representatives, and deputies. In the discussion a number of such very controversial issues arose, particularly the different aspects of whether to introduce or not a single social contribution, whether to continue to be a party to the government, whether to withdraw from the funds, discussed tariffs and so forth. But given these conflicting points, the committee decided not to make recommendations but to continue to discuss them with the general public with those interested in the further development of social insurance. The recommendations are therefore taken into account all proposals made by participants in hearings, proposals by national deputies, recommendations discussed and approved at our meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. And it's suggested that they're confirmed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we must prepare for the vote now. I ask the National Deputies to come into the session room so that we can make effective decisions. What's more, we're holding parliamentary hearings. If we are to hold, there must be some result of these parliamentary hearings. I don't see people in the session room. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Please prepare for the vote. A draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations "Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine" is put to the vote. Modern - day conditions. Problems and prospects for development", registration number 7549. Please vote. [[12:55:24]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings "Cultural policy in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Priorities, principles and ways of implementation." Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please. And, dear fellows, we will now vote. The chairman of the committee will briefly express his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u147	Respectable Society! Last time we approved with you three hundred votes the concept of Ukrainian culture, and today we want to approve the Supreme Council's ruling on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "Cultural Policy in Ukraine." There is a very, I think, significant moment to support what Mr. Stoyan has said about the need to strengthen parliamentary control within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine, including with respect for and implementation of our legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council. Well, there's a lot of details. I'm the only one I'd have to. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, shorten one sentence on speeding up the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Theatres and Theatre Affairs with the President's proposals, because we are this one. The law has already been passed. So I'm asking you to delete that question. Well, the main thing is that we're looking at the problem of the normal budgeting of culture and especially at its regional levels. I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "Cultural policy in Ukraine: Priorities, Principles and Ways of Implementation". Registration number 7548. Please vote. [[12:57:29]] For 295 Decision taken. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations: "The legislative provision of modern economic policy in conditions of constitutional reform" is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u149	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft recommendations for parliamentary hearings: “The legislative provision of modern economic policy in the context of constitutional reform”, has been prepared on the basis of key economic policy-making tasks aimed at protecting the national interests of the State. The recommendations were prepared on the basis of proposals made at parliamentary hearings on 18 May. Proposals from representatives of scientific organizations, industry and public organizations have been taken into account. I ask you to support this project. The recommendations relate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the establishment of a system of public forecasting of key macroeconomic indicators, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank and the National Academy of Sciences. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u150	George Manchulenko, with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u151	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues! In general, the Ukrainian People’s Party faction agrees with the draft decree. But there are a few comments, especially: where Parliament is given the mandate to develop the concept of the Ukrainian economic code. Or at least give guides that should represent the Ukrainian Economic Code. Is this supposed to be just a collection of documents that we've already adopted about the regulation of the economy at all? I mean, you have to figure out what it is, because it's just the Ukrainian Economic Code, well get all the laws that apply to the economy -- it can also be an economic code for Ukraine, so you have to make more concrete formulations in that direction. And in general, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u152	Yes, please, Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u153	Gurenko, Communist faction, head of the Economic Policy Committee. Dear colleagues and respectable colleague Manchulenko, it's written down, if you've noticed, that's exactly how to work out a concept, that is, a conceptual approach that most, say, political forces or basically set up all the political forces to not be intimidated. It's not meant to be about renewing state planning, let's say, but today there's a problem when we, when we make decisions about economic policy, often face a conflict of laws, and we feel like the codification should be done, but maybe we should discuss the exact need for a single economic code. This will be resolved in the course of discussions, in agreement with all committees and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations "The Legislative Provision of Modern Economic Policy under Constitutional Reform" of May 18, 2005, registration number 7470. Please vote. [[13:01:51]] For 248 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Our Ukraine is 28, the communists are 53. Now we're going to finish the vote, three more rulings, then you're going to take the motive. Ukraine - 48, People's Party - 19, Block Timoshenko - 0, SPU - 27, Ukrainian People's Party - 16, SDPU - 0, Democratic Ukraine - 20, Only Ukraine - 10, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Democratic Initiatives - 11, non-fractional - 11. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings "Stan and the Legal and Social Status of Modern Ukrainian Labour Migration" of November 17, 2004 has been announced for consideration. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko reports, secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! As noted earlier, these hearings were held on November 17 of last year. It took us a long time to find out about this decision and, of course, there were some changes with dates when we discussed it at the committee meeting. That is, in the second paragraph, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 November 2005 of the progress made in implementing the recommendation of parliamentary hearings approved by this decision. When we discussed this issue for the first time, there was a observation as to how to evaluate the government’s activities in this regard. When it was decided on the committee to remove the issue in general, because listening to the old government, and to this day to give an assessment of it, was only then one important observation. There are also changes in some of the recommendations themselves. For example, in paragraph 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, together with the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, to develop, not until June 1, as it says here, but by November 1st, the Science Humans Program, which gives special attention to young people. And in sub-paragraph five, which reads: "To expedite submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the draft Law. The State Employment Programme" will change the date, not "2005-2008", but "2006-2009". This draft decree is in line with the government, in line with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and I ask you to support this in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Vitalia Yakovich, maybe here, where the decree says, "The Cabinet of Ministers by 1 July 2005," let's write down "by 1 September," because there's no time to give information, they're not going to be able to make it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u157	No, it's not. I already said, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's written here by November 1st, we gave the date until November 1st at the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u158	I listened then, thank you. Honorary colleagues, taking into account the clarifications given just before Vitali Jakovič Šibko, have put to the vote a draft decision on Parliamentary hearing recommendations: the state and problems of the legal status of modern Ukrainian labour migration since 17 November 2004. Registration number 6401. Please vote. [[13:05:17]] For 278 Decision taken. A draft decree on the state of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster is under review. Please, Schershon Mikola Haritonovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u159	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, is submitting to your consideration a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepared by the Committee on the results of the Government of Ukraine’s Day, which took place on April 12, on the issue of a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The project takes into account the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies on April 12th, as well as the written proposals made by the Committee of Committees, factions and groups of Ukrainian National Deputies, as well as the separate positions of draft regulations from the mentioned issue submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies - Rahanski, Bondarenko, Suhim, School. Taking into account the results of the vote on April 19, the committee worked again. We propose to add a new point: recommending that the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine consider the creation of a single, specially authorized central executive body on the issue of overcoming the Chernobyl disaster. It'll be the Ministry or the State Committee, whether it's the President with the Government -- it's their functions under the Constitution of Ukraine. As for the evaluation of government activities, the majority of the members of the Committee, unlike other project authors, decided not to make such an assessment. The activities of the former government have already been considered unsatisfactory by you when he was retired. The work of today’s government will show time. Our colleague Solomatín Yuri Petrovich's proposals were considered at the committee meeting, but they were not supported by the committee. So we're proposing that Solomon's project be rejected. A few days ago another bill from the Ukrainian national deputy Bronnikov was registered. The main feature of this project is the distribution of the functions of the state administration of Chernobyl issues between the central executive authorities, five of whom, but the position of the committee: there should be only one government authority to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. In our opinion, it was important to support Bronnikov's proposal and to include it in the ruling that the committee had prepared for creation, which was very important for the establishment of a national agency in the field of radioactive waste management. This agency needs to be empowered to process, sort, dispose and store radioactive wastes, both in the alienation zone and in the Chernobyl AES complex. Please support the committee's draft with titled rights number 7348-D. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will put bills to the vote in order to register. The first is an amended bill, which was tabled by the Committee, which is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Registration number 7348-D]] Please vote. Then we'll vote on other bills. [[13:09:20]] For-187 Let us now vote on other bills where the government's work is considered unsatisfactory. This is Bill 7348-3. Author Yuri Solomatin Please vote. Why, then, do people who have not read it advocate not to vote? Please vote. [[13:09:46]] For-84 The decision is not taken. The draft order, number 7348-4, shall be put to the vote. Author of the national MP Bronnikov. [[13:10:13]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we voted. The highest number of votes was the project proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. Excuse me, committee. He won 187 votes. We have every reason to put him to a re-vote. But I ask colleagues who have not read the document not to instruct the people’s deputies. So I'm voting for the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7384-d. Please vote. [[13:11:03]] For 281 Decision taken. A draft regulation on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on "Provisions for the creation of public broadcasting in Ukraine" has been announced for consideration since 13 April 2005. Pravdenko Sergey Makarovich, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. We need to hear what they said about the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, parliamentary hearings were held on April 13th. We just need to create a social radio. First of all, it's the only possibility in a country where the majority of the population is struggling to create a television talk, which is still trying to tell the truth. It also raises the board of all the other channels of television and radio talk on account of what should be creatively high. And I would also like to add that a lot of people don't say that the members of the committee are representatives of different political forces -- clearly for this draft decree. Under this project, the oversight board of future television should be the only body that appoints and releases social leaders, irrespective of authority. A corresponding draft of the Law has already been made and we should consider it today if we can. I'd love to make it. The decree simply opens the way for the law to be adopted at least in the first reading and then in general. And then we're going to have to start a practical job of creating finally in Ukraine, which was talked about a long time ago -- in the mid-1990s, social television, social radio. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. Change the vote. Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u163	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head, dear colleagues, the issue is extremely important for the formation of civil society -- it's the creation of public television. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the position on the creation of public broadcasting. We are the only ones who make one warning that public broadcasting is not created instead of public broadcasting. We have under the Constitution all forms of property are equal, and we are based on the principle of constitutional principles of equality of different forms of property. And there may also be public broadcasting, and there may be public broadcasting, and there may be commercial broadcasting, but so that we don't create something in exchange for public broadcasting not to be created on the basis of state and not to destroy public broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u164	Thank you. Please sign up for three minutes. And I can see it's going to be a discussion. Three minutes, please sign in. Yes, on the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, please the faction of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. I immediately asked for the word, you see, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The point is that this regulation states that the reform of public broadcasting is being carried out on the following principles, i.e. in the very decision that I want to vote for, I urge you to vote, there is only one way to create social television. In my opinion, it's completely wrong, it rules out what my fellow national MP is talking about right now. The point is that only the reform of the state into society, and what TV channels are now being seized in the state is still being used illegally to generate profits. I don't want to call them all names right now, you all know them. In fact, they're all taken illegally into the state. That's why it has to be about us writing "creating social radio broadcasting" here, not reforming the state into a social one. I suggest we rule that out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u166	Yes, please, Sergey Doroguntsov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u167	Druduntsov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Our faction, Vladimir Mikhailovich, will support this project. We'll vote yes. We support the idea of creating public television on the basis of state television, because, as Tomenko says, "freedom of speech exists only for those in the hands of television," and it is a person of state television. That's why we think it's necessary to have public television on its basis, based on this state television. And finally, so that all of us, not just those who will be shown by the authorities, will have access to this public television. Because we already know that from the previous government and the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u168	Yes, Oleg Belarus, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u169	Please give the floor to the national deputy Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u170	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u171	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that Ukraine needs public broadcasting. I say "citizen," not social. It's just an inaccurate translation from the Russian concept of political. Social is, you know, one, and public is public, it's not going to depend on public authorities and other radio companies. This television in its own time, the radio talk in its own time was very much wanted to do, and two laws and two Supreme Council decrees had already been passed, a concept created by the public council, but, according to Kuchma's instructions, they did not then issue a license to start work. Now that the political situation has changed, I hope that this television will be created, and it will be independent of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u172	What procedure? Dear colleagues, we've already been exchanged for reasons of vote. There can be no procedure. True as a reporter. Dear colleagues, procedures before considering the matter. The motives of the vote have already been, there can be no procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's not a modest thing to say, but I'll remind you that I've been running a parliamentary newspaper for 11 years, which is, in fact, in a printed form, a social issue, because it represents and represents different points of view, let it be politicized, because it represented Parliament. We really need social television, social radio in society. If you want, it's a test for democracy. Everything else is just words, arguments, attempts not to vote and look beautiful somehow. It's primarily a test for power, it's one of the right requirements of the Council of Europe, and in general, it's a rule of democracy -- to have social channels, not public channels. The Law on Television and Broadcasting clearly defines these terms, asking that you do not confuse them. I'd like to support you very much, because I repeat, members of the pro committee. We've studied this very deeply on our committee. I would ask my faction, my fellow members of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation: "The Prospects for the Establishment of Public Broadcasting in Ukraine" of April 13, 2005 is put to the vote. Registration number 7404. Please vote. [[13:19:36]] For 315 Decision taken. It's being announced. What? Well, one more decision, I asked you to vote after the decision, then you'll express your position. This is a draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of measures for Ukraine's entry into the WTO, a finalized project with observations and proposals by the National Deputies. Registration number 7450. Rapporteur: Head of the Committee on European Integration, Pavlovich Kasianov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u175	Cassianov Sergei, 37 constituency, Dnipropetrovsk district, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On May 17, this year, the government held a day - to - day government day on the move to take action on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. On the same day, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved in its first reading a draft Decision on Information for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the move to take action on Ukraine’s entry into WTO. I would like to remind you that the project noted both government gains and shortcomings in its work in this direction. For example, the document noted that the government ineffectively uses the investment tools needed to coordinate the activities of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine aimed at preparing Ukraine for entry into WTO. Regrettably, recent examples of passage through the Supreme Council of a package of bills aimed at the legislative provision of Ukraine's entry into WTO have demonstrated the correctness of the observations contained in the draft decree. The government's recommendation for further work in this direction stressed the need for early development of concrete measures aimed at overcoming the negative effects of Ukraine's entry into the WTO, including with a view to providing State support to a number of priority sectors of the economy in accordance with standards. Soto. Special attention was paid in the draft decree to the social aspects of Ukraine’s participation in the WTO, including ensuring employment levels. In the proposals for a draft decision that had come to the committee, the attention of the national deputies had also drawn to the above - mentioned questions. Among these proposals were additions to individual project items related to the development of Ukraine's labour potential, the introduction of international standards, conformity assessment procedures, and so on. There were 10 suggestions and additions, six of which the committee considered appropriate, and the other four rejected. Please, Your Honor, support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. There's a situation here that doesn't take into account Karmazin's revisions. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u177	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The deadline for amending the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is 27-6.2005. So I'd like to control the final term, and I've prepared about 30 amendments to this project somewhere. The main ones are that, over the course of the week, the government has to provide information to the Ukrainian National Deputies on the development of State support mechanisms for agrarian, aviation, shipbuilding, space and other economic sectors that meet the requirements of the GAT SOT system; a coherent schedule and bilateral and multilateral negotiations with member countries; a working group report on Ukraine's entry; a timetable for submission and passage through the Supreme Council of Bills; and, in the end, a comprehensive plan of action to overcome the negative social consequences of Ukraine's entry into the WTO aimed at predicting the situation in the labour market, ensuring employment levels.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u178	Dear National Deputies! Just a minute. The first reading was. In our first reading, we adopted this document, document 17.05. 206, you write about it yourself, Yuri Anatolyovich. And if it's two weeks, it's not two weeks, it's a month after that. So we have every reason to consider the bill. I want to say it again. In her first reading, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted May 17, 2005. What are you writing about? That's why 27. We had a month. Please, committee, what's the committee's opinion? And we'll vote. Cassianov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u179	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to remind you that the draft decree proposes to develop a number of concrete measures on social issues and economic support. We think that these questions, they are included in the draft decisions themselves, and they can go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u180	As for the amendments that Karmazin sent you. I'll say, when did he send them to you? 21.06. Today only the amendments have been made. Please, Karmazin's microphone, what rule did we break, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u181	I repeat: 6.2.14 and 11.01, there are days when plenary meetings are not held and weekends are excluded, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, you should know this rule of law very well. So I also turn to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who nods that he does not. Open up, look, it says, "What days don't count." As a result, 27 numbers end. And I don't understand where you're going, there's no one waiting for you at the S.O.T., so they sent us around. Let's protect Ukrainian interests, protect and make a normal, full decision. Where are you flying? So thank me for making 30 suggestions and for predicting that stupidity would not go away, and for us, the other way around is we're going to have to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, it says in regulation 6.2.14 that amendments are made within a period of fourteen days. Adam Ivanovich will now look at what is considered a 14-day term? In the meantime, please, one minute, well, we'll finish, we'll postpone. Let's find out, let's vote. For what reasons did you ask for the word? Please, Rabbit. And then we vote. What other article did you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It seems that a final agreement on Bill 7540 has finally been reached in the session hall. And there is a political will to his successful vote. That is why I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote a return to this bill and its vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u184	Sass, the Regulatory Committee, please, and as a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u185	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I think Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin is using his own Rules in this case. The regulation clearly sets a 420-day deadline for the submission of proposals by the people's deputies to the second reading. And the terms are determined in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision and are not limited to weekends and holidays. So I'm asking you to put to the vote a draft ruling that was announced by a committee representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u186	My dear colleagues, and the proposal that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin insisted on in the regulatory order, tell me, refers to the budgetary process rather than to other issues. Please, Karmazin, and we will vote. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin. I placed everything in the Rules on the last sheet. I wrote it for the committee. And to the officials of the government, please separate yourself from the regulatory committee somehow. If you speak from the government, say you're from the government, not from the regulatory committee. That's why it says so, I read to you: it doesn't count, it doesn't take into account the official weekends and holidays, and the days of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council when calculating the terms marked in. [[Article 1101, paragraph 2]] Lists parts for the time frame for getting acquainted with the draft MPs' budget. When calculating the other periods in this article, the calendar days are counted. Calendar days, you know? And here were the festivals, the festivals and the plenary. So I said, why don't you want to take these days into account, you're looking right away, aha Carmazin was wrong. Oh, thank God, Carmazin didn't make a mistake. If you'd considered what I said in the speech, I said it in the speech, but you took it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u188	Respectful fellow workers, if they follow the Rules strictly, can be found in article 6.2. 14 says it's 14 days. And if you read article 11.01, there is no reference to this article at the time of the calculation. It mentions an exclusive article that relates to the budget. There is 6.2. Article 14 is not mentioned. Then I ask you to prepare a written explanation on this matter so that we do not have a conflict. And I'm voting on a draft decree on the information of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of measures for Ukraine's entry into SOT, completed, 7450. Please vote. [[13:30:43]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'm asking the committee to work on obviously the proposals made by Yuri Carmazin. The factions, please. And then we'll look at it. "Our Ukraine" - 78, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 33, Block Timoshenko - 34, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 8, "One Ukraine" - 3, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Afterfraction - 8. So please work on the project. So Vladimir the Rabbit has already spoken, and what else is to be done. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that prior to the vote of the Budget Resolution there were arrangements between the factions for mutual support. I'm telling you what happened. On mutual support for the Budget Resolution and then support for Bill 7540. We're back on the agenda. But when accepted as a foundation, the Supreme Council did not accept it. So for the last time, I'm putting to the vote a motion for a return to the bill of 7,540. I won't bet any more. 7540. Please vote. [[13:32:18]] For 243 Decision taken. Now I'm voting for adoption on the basis of draft Law 7540, as a basis. Please vote. [[13:32:43]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in general, if there are no warnings from any of the national MPs. Wait! When there's no warning, I put it all together. Please vote. So why didn't you say anything?Oh, my God! Why did you keep silent when I spoke?Oh, my God! I asked -- you said everyone was voting. I'll bet. You'll know what you want! Dear colleagues, you don't know what you want! There's a general vote. Please vote. [[13:33:35]] For 244 Decision taken. I asked, dear fellows, no one raised his hand. Dear colleagues, I ask you, including a representative, to speak at the right time. Calm down, the decision is made. Please announce the project of the Relating Regulation. By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, People's Party - 21, block Timoshenko - 29, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 19, "One Ukraine" - 15, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 11, non-fractional - 13 I said the right number - 7540. No, I said "7540." It was Law 7540. A draft decree on the assignment of the village of New Kalinov in the district of Sambir in the region of Lviv to the category of cities of regional importance is being announced. As long as the reporter goes. Dear colleagues, please focus. I asked that we do. In view of this, please note that there are many suggestions now that the Supreme Council should consider all the bills for summer vacations to be held even after the next meeting, let us perhaps support the proposal that we continue our work for an hour. I am voting to continue our work today for one hour to make the necessary decisions. Please vote until 1 9 o'clock. Please vote everyone. [[13:35:25]] For 190 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communist faction - 2, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, National Party - 33, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 15, SPU - 15, NPP - 2, SDPU - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "One Ukraine" - 18, SPTU - 6, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, Postfraction - 9. Clearly, your fellow Members, there are no more motives. I've already announced a draft decree to take the village of New Kalin of the Sambir district of Lviv to the category of cities of district importance. Dear colleagues, this is how we want to support the President and the government. Please, Vitaly Mikolaiovich Olujko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u189	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Lviv District Council violated the concerns before the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the relocation of the village of New Kalin of the Sambir district to the category of cities of district importance. The village of New Kalin is a young locality in the district of Sambir, with a tendency to develop and increase population. The average age of the population is 35 years, and the natural increase is 10 per thousand. Today, more than four thousand people live there. There are two ATS, two military units, more than 20 entrepreneurial structures that are active in the provision of services to the population of a variety of types of services. Trade in these entrepreneurial structures alone accounts for more than 15 million dollars a year. In rural areas there is a public school, a library, a cultural building, a network of shops, and a public food establishment. There are 18 15-story buildings built in the village, all the buildings of this village are served by the production of housing and utilities. When changing the category of the population item, the state of the board, as well as the cost of retaining them, remains unchanged. The question of the urban settlement of the New Kalins of the Sambir district was considered and supported by the Novokalinov Village Council, the Sambir District Council, and the Lviv District Council. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government accepted the proposals and asked for the support of the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is put to the vote. Change the vote. Three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Three minutes of vote, please sign in. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u191	Thank you very much. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like you to hear about the previous vote. You don't have to do that anymore when you think about it, you put it to a vote: who's to go on. This should be done at least in the morning because there are plans. We have today, let's say a faction meeting, we have other moments. This is so that our voters can understand why we are making a decision that involves our time and the intensity of our work. And as for this issue that's being discussed, I have no particular question here, except that I urge all the deputies to vote for the decision that the committee is now proposing to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u192	Thank you. Do you know how different a national deputy is from the head of the Supreme Council? One: that an MP can criticize himself at any time, and the Head doesn't have that possibility. Please. I'm ready to endure. Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u193	Please pass the word to Ponomarenko Georgi Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u194	Polymarenco, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u195	Pomorenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. According to current legislation, cultural workers, doctors, teachers, and teachers benefit those living in rural areas. To this day, the village was a rural area. As the city becomes a city of district subordination, these benefits will be abolished. Who asked them? They were asked if they would accept these benefits. And what they get out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u196	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this was done locally. There is a decision of the appropriate village council. This is a military town, where 18 5-story buildings are built, and that's why today the legislation in force at the rate of growth allows this city to be taken to the status of a city of district importance. This is what the electorate of the inhabited area is called for and asked for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u197	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u198	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, the Honorable Supreme Council! I call it, it's my constituency, it's Samborishka, and the last question I want to answer is that they live there in most of the military because it's military. They live there, so, in principle, no loss of benefits is discussed. We really need to support the committee here. I am grateful to the author of the bill for taking such an initiative. I've been talking to both the Cabinet of Ministers a couple of dozen times, and the Committee to do that. by expressing the will of the electorate that they want their population to change their status. So I urge everyone to vote on this. There are beautiful people living there, these are our military, these are people who need increased attention, and when the status of the population is changed, then it will be easier for the district authorities to devote more money, to make more effort to improve their lives. I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u199	Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u200	After such a heated speech, Andrew School leaves me with only one thing to do: join our colleagues in asking them to vote, which is why the reporter convinced us. Once there are 18 five - story buildings, and there are military units living there, so be Lower Calin City. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u201	Thank you. Yes, before voting, the Committee asked Orzhachowski. Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u202	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine As a member of the State Building Committee and local self - government in this regard, when the draft decree was being considered, I had a point of view and I suggest the following. We legislators will have to predict what we will do in the future. Perhaps we should make some changes to the Constitution. Because today the Constitution does not foresee the existence of a city-type village. And in the future, virtually today, they can claim all the villages to have the status of the city. And with thousands of citizens in the future today, and two thousand, they're going to want to have the right status. Because of that, I think that as a legislative body, we have in the future over this problem to think about, or else we destroy the general understanding of what a city is: a city is 10,000, a city is 100,000 and a city is a thousand or four thousand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u203	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! This is really a special situation. As far as I'm concerned about my former job, I know this town very well. It's really a closed, super-closed military town, where there's no village where there's no agriculture. I'm not going to say that this is the part, it's more likely than anything else, and now it has something to do with serving our enough and quite necessary functions of state and so I think you can conclude here that this is, in fact, a closed military town that has nothing to do with rural areas. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u205	Dear colleagues! A draft decree on the assignment of the village of New Kalin of the Sambir district of Lviv district to the category of cities of district importance is put to the vote. Registration number 7468. Please vote. [[13:44:38]] For 376 Decision taken. Please proceed now to consider a draft decree to change the boundaries of the City of Krolevec of the district of Suma. Vitaly Mikolaiovich Olujko, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u206	Honourable National Deputies, the Suma District Council has repeatedly violated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine the concern of changing the borders of the town of Krolevec of the Krolevetsky region. The land areas that are planned for inclusion within the city of Krolevec are actually used by city dwellers, causing the need to include them within the city’s borders. The issue of land transfer within the town of Krolevec has been reviewed and agreed with the nearby Buwalovska and Bistrica Rural Councils. With the aim of supporting the social infrastructure of rural communities by the City Council, agreements have been concluded with the Bistrica Rural Councils on compensation for land tax and rent losses. According to the land-cadastral data, there is a total area of 2,157 hectares within the town of Krolevec. The city’s development brought about changes in the composition and configurations of the city’s borders. A project to change the boundaries of the city was developed by the Royal Regional Branch of the Conotapian City Centre of the State Land Cadastre. The complex project is intended to include in the city’s borders in addition to 227 hectares in the loyalty of the Kroleveck City Council, another 458 hectares [458 ha] of the Bistrica Rural Council and 311 hectares [311 ha] of land in the loyalty of the Buival village council of the Krolevetsky region. These lands, now used by the city’s inhabitants, mainly for gardening, haystacks, and livestock harvesting, are designed to be used according to design decisions for one - story and multi - story public housing, industrial construction, expansion of conservation facilities, the creation of a park area, and places of recreation and sports. The question of the change of the town of Krolevec is accepted in accordance with the legislation, discussed and approved by the Bistrica and Bovalian Rural Councils, the Kralewecki City, and the Krolevetsky District and the Box District Councils. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building unanimously supported the Suman Council’s concern about the change in the borders of the town of Krolevec in the Krolevetsky region. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, the information is proven, it is convincing. We have every reason to put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the boundaries of the City of Krolevec of the district of Suma, registration number 7636. Please vote. [[13:47:58]] For 289 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a brief discussion of the bills. I'm announcing an extension of the morning session for 15 minutes, which is up to 14 hours for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 on the granting of guarantees to a state mortgage institution, registration number 7485, Finance Minister Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich is being introduced. Prepare Suprun Ludmila Pavlovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u208	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, who are holding back the development of long-term credit and housing? First, the lack of long resources and their price. And without State participation, without State support, it is impossible to form such a long-term cheap resource. In this connection, the Government proposes to adopt a draft law that provides guarantees to a state mortgage institution, a level two institution, a tool to support the long resources of commercial banks that lend housing to a total of 10 billion dollars. This is a marginal amount, a specific amount of guarantees that will be issued by the Cabinet of Ministers for lending mortgages, will be determined by the government's decision by approving the financial plan of the state mortgage institution accordingly. The terms of the loan will be determined by agreement with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. We want to stress that the granting of State guarantees is a tool that allows for less than cheap resources, because long-term housing construction cannot be based on expensive loans. There is no need for additional expenditure from the 2005 budget to adopt these changes. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u209	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. And we're voting right now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, it's a surprise and an ease with which, in 2.5 minutes, the minister of finance today has changed the balance of the State budget by almost 10 billion. The bill that we are considering today proposes to allow the Cabinet of Ministers in 2005 to provide State guarantees to the state mortgage facility and to introduce a system for granting such guarantees for years to come. In general, by supporting the idea of the bill, we consider it necessary as the Committee on Budget Affairs to note the following. First. The implementation of this proposal will lead to an increase in the amount of State guarantees, which is in fact not in line with the second article of the 27th Budget Code, and may result in additional expenditure from the State budget, which is not currently foreseen by the State budget. It's different. These documents do not determine how much the government mortgage facility will be involved in this year in 2005. Instead, it is suggested that the amount will be set up by a financial plan of a state mortgage institution that is totally inconsistent with and does not meet the requirements of article 18, paragraph 18, of the Budget Code, because this article determines that the marginal amount of guarantees is set for each budget period in accordance with the State Budget Act. In addition, paragraph three of the bill does not have a direct bearing on the State Budget Act of Ukraine, since this paragraph establishes the total amount of State guarantees. In our view, the bill needs further work. In this way it is not possible to accept it. And the Committee on Budget Affairs is proposing that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u211	Sophia Pavlovna, thank you. Motives, that's before the vote. Now we're moving on to the discussion. Ludmila Pavlovna! Yes, they are. We need two to go, two to go. On board, please name the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u212	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Humane Suprun for the principle of drafting this bill. I think she made the right offer. And by adopting changes to the law, we cannot violate article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. It is precisely article 27, paragraph 2, of this Code that no changes can be made that will lead to an increase in State guarantees, with guarantees to a state mortgage institution, that we cannot now and for years to come, that we cannot predict how much money we need to take into account. So by completely agreeing with the committee's proposal, when there is no volume, it's stipulated in the budget law, and I agree with their conclusion, and I agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and I want to say that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has also drawn attention to another position. But it was noted that paragraph 3 of the bill does not have a direct bearing on the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act, because this paragraph sets out the total amount of State guarantees in the state mortgage institution, the manner in which such an institution is involved, and so on, and not for 2005. This is the main point, in my opinion, that we are facing the fact that we have to adopt Decree 7487/p, which was proposed by the people's deputies Suprun, Assadchev, Wojsz, Masters, Kirilczuk, Bondarenko, Ponomarenko, Chelnokov, Kachar and Špak to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u213	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u214	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The designated government bill refers to a series of bills related to the further introduction of mortgages in the entire sphere of life - social - economic and even political. We've been told by beautiful words here that we have to overcome the lack of long resources, their prices. And because the panacea of all the troubles in our society and in our country has been offered to increase the state mortgage facility by 10 billion dollars. Well, that's a violation of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, and that's what I'm not going to say again, but I want to say that it's only one thing that we have in common: isn't it now, and in this case, the government of capitalist ministers with the famous slogan, "My hand is the ruler." When they were in opposition, these orange guys, they were paying attention to the dominant blue and whites, and now, well, it's happening, and that's clearly quite the opposite. The bad guys are off the hook, the good guys are coming to power. And by the old habit, traditionally, they'll be doing good things in the same way. Is it possible in a bourgeois-democracy society? The entire experience of human history, and even Ukraine, over the past 14 years, its so - called independence, has proved to be both pairs of boots. And that government that was, and the government that's offering it now. So today we say: we cannot agree with the continued disregard of the Constitution, the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, but we must look for some guarantees, some sources of fulfillment and support that will not affect the interests of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens. I could point out these sources of filling, but in the absence of time, I won't do it now. Thank you for your attention. And I propose not to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u215	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u216	Thank you. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished radio listeners! Of course, two--for, two--against, that someone should be in favor. We could be in favour of this bill, a faction could vote if we didn't have warnings, so I can't help but express them to the radio audience, to the colleagues who are in this room today. We have warnings, dear friends, because the bill proposes to establish a total amount of government guarantees to a state mortgage facility of 10 billion dollars. This is a warning that we talked about when we voted on those bills where the Socialist Party faction didn't take part. And that's why the warnings of the budget committee, and of the colleagues who spoke, say that it might be too early to vote on it, maybe we should move the issue to about four, or sometime next week, or even before September of the month. At least I wouldn't want to say that housing is going to get damaged because we're giving, once again, guarantees to those who will lend. What if the conditions don't come true? What has not been going on in our country so far? There have been such incidents. And you get out of the budget and fill out the calculations you've made. or another person. For the transcript, I'd like to repeat it for the radio audience. The ratio of the faction that voted in favour of the 2006 Main Directions of Budget Policy. We voted on several principles and supported the budget committee, and there was an appropriate arrangement between the faction head and the Ministry of Finance. They have to be fully provided for by the Pension Fund without delay. Health protection, education, culture — a substantial increase in costs, and the village — we will insist — should receive 15 billion dollars in 2006 to support farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u217	Volodymyr Masters, faction of the People's Party. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u218	Volodymyr Masters, faction of the People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As head of the State Debt Subcommittee, I can officially state that the amount of government debt is $15.9 billion. In principle, it's a small amount because the amount of government debt today is about 23 percent in terms of GDP. The limit range at which a critical level is set is 60 percent. So we don't pick the amount of government debt about three times. We're a pretty small country, let's say. And so when it comes to a guarantee loan today, that is, when it comes to today providing a guarantee under such a very important article as lending to a mortgage facility under the construction of apartments, please tell me, is there a commercial bank today that could give under 6-7 percent of the ten- to 15-year-olds today? No one's going to give it to you today. And so in terms of economics, in order to be able to get quite cheap housing for our citizens today, I think that this position needs to be supported, supported with great remarks. Here I fully agree with you that there is a rule of the Budget Code, a 27th article that says today that, within this year, we cannot increase the amount of government debt. But as head of the subcommittee, I have consistently stood up for the fact that, unfortunately, we don't use government debt as an innovative component today. Let's just mention that today, aside from the social expenditure of the budget, unfortunately, we did not set strategic directions in this year's budget that could be financed, including by government debt. For some reason, today we're setting a sales policy for government property at 7 billion dollars. In doing so, let us wait for this property to grow, and then we will sell it. I think that today, unfortunately, we have laid down a small amount of government debt, including a guaranteed government debt for this year. I don't see any problem with accepting it today in the first reading, putting it as a guide, for us to work on it, and here, making a certain exception so that we can eventually solve the very important problem of building apartments. Thank you. Our faction will support the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The discussion was concluded. John the Rabbit for the reasons of the vote. Then, at the end of the day, we'll ask the Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u220	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this is not just about the introduction of powers of the Cabinet of Ministers to give State guarantees to a state mortgage institution. This is also about how these funds will be used. Do we today have a program for this housing project? How has this program been expanded in Ukraine? So how are these costs going to be used? We see complete darkness here, and we can't see anything. On the other hand, it's just not realistic, it's 10 billion dollars, it's either this year or even that year. Where is that bank because there are institutions that can give us that kind of credit today? So again, we see a lot of thoughtlessness here. So when I analyze this bill. So the point is, let's give it, give it authority, and then we use it for the benefit of the people, and then it can come out that these 10 billion are sitting in someone's pocket and the whole program is going to shut down. So you need a housing program in Ukraine to get people
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u221	Yes. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u222	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, first of all I want to thank Mr. Volodymyr Jakovych Mystrišin, who emphasized some of the principles of things. In May this year, the average interest rate on loans was 16.4% in Ukraine. At such rates, the vast majority of citizens never stand a chance of taking credit and building housing. Because there's a cumulative accumulation of interest, and the loan is going to cost three dollars compared to the amount. Our citizens can't take credit for 1-2 years. It's about a long loan. The only way to make loans is to give government guarantees. Now, the government is lending interest today, depending on the two-fold term. The second important point is that this Law should be considered in a package with a law that is unfortunately not supported and sent for rereading. Because it's not a resource that's going to cost the budget, it's a mortgage development that provides for the issuance of these loans. And the mortgage facility will work under mortgage documents, there will be no issuing of loans that are not secured. Ivan Aleksandrovitch asked the question, Who will it be through? Commercial banks will make loans available. And commercial banks will not lend without loans. So the tools that go with the package of laws that we have to go back to provide a guarantee of repayment. So this is not a debt that we want to hang on to the neck of the budget. And the last. This is the marginal amount of debt. This is not the amount that will be used by the end of the year, because neither the internal market nor the external market, the internal market at first, can give us that opportunity. Request: Let us support the first reading. We can also sit with the Committee on Budgets, with other committees, to clarify the issues that concern the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u223	Eugene Gorenik. Then Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun. Okay, okay. Then the Shurma, then the Ratchet. And then it's over. Let's probably be something by then. We thought we'd raise our hand - honoring colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u224	Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't take my time. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Minister of Finance and Vladimir Masterskin, although he is the head of the State Debt Subcommittee, simply do not negotiate and mislead us. No debt taken under the government guarantee has been repaid until now. And Victor Mikhailovich is offering to take the cat in a bag, saying there are flags. Let's put this whole painting out so that we can understand it, and then we can go back to that question. If we vote now, we're going to assign our budget to practically another 10 billion-dollar debt. It is not acceptable in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u225	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u226	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I now appeal to those Ukrainian citizens who listen to the direct broadcast of the session. And when they hear about the results of the vote, they point out that the united Social Democrats don't vote today. I'm talking to them and I'd like to explain our position. We also fully support the creation of public broadcasting, which was our position during parliamentary hearings. Today we are fully aware of the need and adoption of these bills, including the lending of housing to the population. But we appeal to society with one requirement. Today, 30 national deputies, violating 78 and 120 articles of the Constitution, reconcile the status of the national MP and the fulfilment of their duties in important public positions. In doing so, they violate the Ukrainian Civil Service Act, thus violating the Ukrainian Corruption Act. What's more, their cards are voted in today's hall by the bill. That we can talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u227	Please, Councilman Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u228	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have my first suspicion. Victor Mikhailovich, you know very well that in talking to builders who can overdo housing, these loans can be stolen. That's the first one. The other one. I never realized how someone who can't today, just a young family, young students who are getting out, will be able to build up, because those who are building today, who can build up, who can finance, and now at the rate of credit. And third, Volodymyr Maester and Pinzenic. You're afraid there's no six percent, there's no more one percent in America, there's no one in Europe at three. Whatever the normal state is, and not the city of the orange revolution, the orange plague would be brought to power, we would have a Deutsche Bank, a network bank, and we would have given under 1-2 percent of the annual and for all, and not guarantees. And the guarantees never came back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u229	Eugene Kirilchuk, please. I see Ludmila Pavlovna. Eugene Kirilchuk, then the replica of Masters and Suprun, and we will vote. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, well, you are today referring to the facts that were many years ago when a government without any law under its safeguards was handing out such guarantees and funds to its loved ones. And these previous governments certainly did not provide a return. Now it was the responsibility of this government to recover the funds that had been made available to previous governments. At this point, the situation is quite different. The government came to agree with us through the law, it doesn't mean that even though one penny is going to be spent on these 10 billion, because it's commercial banks that will give building organizations, and they're going to be building people housing. Why mix peas with cabbage? It's different things. I propose to support this bill. At the very least, it's the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u231	A craftsman, a replica, please. The Master's microphone. The name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u232	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. With all due respect to those deputies who are against this bill, I can tell you as the head of the High Council investigating committee on loans that are unreturnable and guaranteed by the government. We studied this situation, and it clearly indicates today that there was a pattern that did not foresee a return at all. There was no major factor — the commercial bank under which the loan was granted. Today, this scheme is proposed: moving money to Ukraine, through a commercial bank, they will surrender. It's a scheme that works all over the world. And let's each of us get another letter every day from our constituents saying that we're going to be able to get a loan for construction today. And no one's gonna give us that opportunity until we get some cheap and long-term loans. I think that on the first reading, we should definitely support this and write out all the wrongs in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u233	Thank you. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna, please, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to what guarantees and what guarantees are provided. Guarantees are provided for the formation of a mortgage state institution, but the institution itself will lend such loans to the real estate. So this proposal actually doubles the government's guarantees - this time. Secondly, we are prepared for the participation of members of the budget committee to give a new bill that will meet the requirements of standard-setting technology that will conform to the budget code and that will comply with other legislation, because in the law that we have not adopted today, there is such a thing as exemption from taxation on income taxes on businesses that provide mortgages here, in Ukraine and then, as non-residents, are expelled from the territory of Ukraine. Tax rate is zero. It's also wrong. Let's adopt these laws in a comprehensive way, but let's all understand what this ends up with in the State Budget. So we're willing to work together to give you a normal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-21-m0.u235	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Submitted to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the 2005 State Budget, registration number 7485, please vote. [[concerning the granting of guarantees to a state mortgage institution]] [[14:14:57]] For-136 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. May I have your attention, Your Honor? "Our Ukraine" - 64, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine" - 4, People's Party - 27, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 33, SPI - 0, UNODC - 1, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 1, "Ukraine" - 0, SPTU - 0, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, Postfraction - 5. Dear colleagues! Regarding the proposal that was made in support of bills that are very important, but we do not vote in relation to the fact that we have many accomplices, I would like to say this: Your Honorable colleagues, this is understandable to us as to what accomplices are. People, when they look at it and they see it, they say they're all on the same face. So let me put it this way: let's work and take all possible and impossible measures to solve this problem. Believe me, people don't figure out what a deputy is to match a position that doesn't fit. That's the first one. And the second. I urge simply, honourable colleagues, or not to speak on this subject, not to excite society. Well, believe me, you don't have to say no, no, just talk to people. They say you're all passing through here. The second moment is the honourable colleagues that I'm going to say. Well, please. Listen, second moment. Parliament is playing with information, gossiping that, like the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the expense of the budget, he bought an ambulance at the expense of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that he did nothing like the head of the Supreme Council, for this is absurd. This is what our colleagues, people who don’t understand what people are, the resources that are possible: party, factional -- are trying to protect people’s health because they're just used to stealing. And they think they're all acting on the same principle. So I would like to make another point: Don’t go out there and find out what the situation is. If there is, you can contact the Regulatory Committee, check with the budgetary authority. And as for those people, if necessary, I can show them how much and where they do it. By the way, they always show their own principles and attitudes regarding the protection of people, and they use unworthy methods. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. I'd like to ask my fellow national MPs on Thursday not to plan anything. I'm going to put a motion on the vote so that we can continue our work on Thursday for at least two hours.
