ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:58]] They registered 375 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Valery Pilipovich, Vernon Leonid Mihajlovich and Kručkov Georgia Korniyovich. Let us welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and all sorts of living things. Honourable National Deputies, information on the results of the Supreme Council's work at the plenary on October 19, 2005. Ten issues of the agenda were discussed, five laws and two decrees were adopted, two bills were rejected, information was heard about the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the work of the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Dear colleagues, you have a list of issues to consider today, please sign up for communication. Five minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Sergey Gmira, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u2	Be kind, Zybenko, give me the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u3	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u4	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I wish to address you. We have different chapters in our agenda for this day, including the chapter “To be included in the agenda” and “To be included in the agenda and to be considered in substance”. But this chapter is forming quite subjectively, I mean that the faction insists today on including, at least, the order of the daily draft regulation 8286 and the draft law, it is particularly relevant today in view of the danger of avian influenza in Ukraine. The author of the bill, Volodymyr Aleksijovich Lechchenko, number 8290. I beg you, I insist on the faction of inclusion in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u5	I think that way, dear colleagues, I'm going to ask you to look for these documents now, when we get to the inclusion section, we're going to ask these questions, we're going to look if you insist. Is there no objection? Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Turmanov?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u7	Please, Turmanov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, representatives of all industries gathered under the walls of the Supreme Council. An action has been taken to protest the Federation of Trade Unions against the budget that we will be considering today. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I strongly ask that the broadcast go there so that people will know how we are discussing the 2006 budget. With regard to this budget, it must be said that the regions of Ukraine today are not balanced. With regard to the coal budget, it is a devastating budget for the coal industry. Therefore, the faction of the regions today will not support the budget on first reading. And we believe that all deputies should do so and support it and send it to the Cabinet of Ministers for further refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, when we go to the 2006 draft of the State Budget, then we'll include a broadcast on the street. No warning? It's a deal. And you and I agreed to have a meeting with the rally at 12 o'clock. With regard to the draft budget, I'd like you to look at the draft budget and the conclusions, the proposals made by the Committee on Budgets. I am convinced that they need to be supported. Please, Corge. And we agreed, as soon as we get to the question, we'll turn on the broadcast. Now why include our breakup?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u10	The word is given to Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u11	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u12	Thank you. I would like to point out that, indeed, the draft budget is such that it will be difficult to support it, and the faction does not see the possibility of sustaining a budget that crosses the social gains of the previous one. But I would like to point out that we have been addressing Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council, in order to hear the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Health, I think it would be important enough for what is being done in Ukraine to prevent an outbreak of avian influenza. Because, in fact, in Romania, neighboring Moldova, we already have a bird shot in Ukraine that poses a threat to avian influenza. It's not just words, it's, in principle, facts already, and we'd like to hear what actions the government is doing to prevent this terrible epidemic that's done, what's planned to be done and how.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u14	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, today's agenda does not provide for a review of the bill that was introduced with regard to changes to the 2005 budget under force majeure conditions in the agro-industrial complex. I will no longer talk about the situation that has arisen. The 2006 budget is that the following year will not be a year of village support, but a full year of destruction. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine requires that we, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, along with those bills that the village is currently supporting, return to the issue of those bills that we did not pass in parliament yesterday, because this is absolutely necessary, today we need to provide fuel for the peasants, because tomorrow will be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u15	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, regarding suggestions for hearing information about the avian influenza epidemic. I would like to remind you once again that the government, on behalf of the Conciliation Council, has been given the task of providing comprehensive information, what needs to be done, and what decisions must be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today and tomorrow we expect an answer from the Cabinet of Ministers. Depending on this answer, the Supreme Council will respond to the information it receives from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Let us accept that offer. With regard to exclusion from the schedule of meetings, the issue of making changes to the APC's assistance. This decision was taken at the Conciliation Council to consider this issue in the next plenary week. With regard to the return to the draft legislation relating to the development of the agro-industrial complex, Mikhailo Vasilovich, Mikhailo Vasilovich! So let's put it this way: when we go to the consideration of these issues, then we'll obviously put the vote on the return to previously unsupported bills, if that's what you insist on. Dear colleagues, two factions, two factions, require a 30 - minute recess. Perhaps you will limit your speech so that we can continue? A faction of the Socialist Party and a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Who will act? Please speak from two factions of Stepanov and we have from the "Regions of Ukraine" and from "Go, Ukraine!". Anyone speaking, please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u16	And I would like, first of all, to ask for a broadcast to be included, as our national MPs have already requested. Call for a rally of children of war near the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! In November last year, by constitutional majority, you passed the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection of Children of War. Some 7 million citizens have accepted this law as an expression of the basic attention and concern. It provides certain benefits that have helped us to survive physically at least a little. With great hope, counting the days, we waited for January 1, 2006, when the law was to enter into force. What a surprise and disappointment we have learned that the State Budget project for the following year, prepared by the Government of Timoshenko, introduced to the Supreme Council by today's government, does not provide for financing of the Children of War Act at all. We are deeply outraged by the disdain for our generation, demonstrated by the fact that the authors of the draft budget are designed to stop even those regulations that do not need financial spending at all. Let's say that the formal right to free travel in public transport is the absolute majority of us as veteran pensioners already have jobs. Dear National MPs, we are representatives of a generation plagued by a brutal war, united into the multi-million-dollar civil society organization "Protection of the Children of War" we demand that you ensure that the Children of War Act enters into force unconditionally. We don't need the charity, we don't need the barbed-arms. Our generation, growing up in hunger and cold, along with wounded frontalists who had been fortunate enough to return to their homes, occupied the jobs of those who had died, protecting their homeland, from 13 to 14 years of age to factories, to unsuspecting plows, making a huge contribution to the creation of a powerful, socio-economic potential from which our independent Ukraine began. And what do we have today? The world’s wealth looted by the gang’s captivation, which has accumulated decades of honest savings, has disappeared untraceable. Millions of us are receiving a modest pension that is not even sufficient for basic survival. Our ideals, moral values, are artificially and imaginatively leveled. We have learned to endure, we know how to cope, we know how to survive and how to malnourished, but why are these trials practiced only for us? The state has yet another opportunity to find funds for an absurd increase in salaries for officials. Senior officials of the state take the time to meet and solve the problems of oligarchs, without even giving business representatives the right to a veto to develop normative acts that concern their interests. Today we went to protest only to the Supreme Council and to several district centers to district administrations. But if our problems continue to be ignored, tomorrow hundreds of thousands of people from a generation of war children, along with the still living veterans of the Great Homeland War, will rise all over Ukraine. And this will be the course from which we will not retreat. 330 national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, three minutes is the same. Ten seconds, complete, please. Give me 10 seconds to finish. Turn it on, please. Speak, apparently, turned on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u18	313 people's deputies, including Yushchenko, Lithuania, Yehanurov, voted in favour of Ukraine's Social Protection of War Children Act a year ago. We demand that we ensure that this law is implemented unconditionally. At last, the government becomes honest and responsible, carrying out the laws and promises given to the people from the highest rostrums. Participants in the children's war rally at the Supreme Council. 20.10.2005.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u19	Thank you. I mean, you called my last name. I fully support the decision I voted for. Please, who's going to perform? Two factions called for a break: "Go, Ukraine!" and "Regions of Ukraine". Who will act? Kirichenko, please. Ludmila Kirichenko. And we'll get to work. Prepare Gabrielu Vasil Vasilovich for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u20	Kirichenko, “Regions of Ukraine”, Lugansk region. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies present! Yesterday, the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine received numerous requests from members of the people to privatize, pointing to a violation of the legislation adopted in the process of preparing and conducting a competition for the sale of Krivoroztali. We know that such appeals are also sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund, the Prosecutor's Office. Having considered the referrals received, I would like to point out and bring to you the following: indeed, the previous Cabinet of Ministers, when deciding on the privatisation of Krivorostali, and when the terms of the competition were approved, a number of significant violations of the Privatization Act and the public privatization programme were committed. I'll point out the basics. First, the duration of the publication contest was violated, second, according to law, only an industrial investor could be the buyer. In the context of the competition, the buyer of the economic activity in the steel industry is involved. But economic activity involves both trade and financial services, i.e. the participation of intermediaries. Third, the State Property Fund assured that a full audit of the enterprise had been carried out before the sale. But it is clear that environmental audits have not been carried out, that the sale of a city-based and environmentally hazardous enterprise is unacceptable. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the following, contrary to the law, the Competition Commission has admitted to the competition a company with offshore capital and this is a gross violation of the Act. There's every reason to believe. That this competition will be declared illegal. And what would the image of the State look like at the international level? The Government, which has resigned and is no longer responsible for the decisions taken, is therefore fully responsible for the leadership of the country today and especially for the President. Dear People's Deputies, since there is no alternative to the Supreme Council and there will be no other option, next week will be a non-sessional one, and an illegal contest will be held on Monday, 24 October, I propose. First. To adopt Decree No. 8263-P of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the hearing in Parliament today of information by the President of the Fund for State Property of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u21	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u22	And Minister of Prompolitics Shandra Vladimir Nikolaevich on the status and conditions of the competition for the privatization of the Krivoroz metalworking combination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u23	Yes, dear colleagues, we have every reason to continue our work, don't we? The issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies is under review. Reporter to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasil Gavriluk. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, is proposing to adopt a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuras Ivan Fedorovich, you know. In connection with death. Support is offered. The committee reviewed and supported the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u25	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuras Ivan Fedorović”, registration number 8306, is put to the vote. [[10:18:36]] For 311 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on October 19, of this year, a statement was considered and supported by the National Deputy of Ukraine Stanislav Telisforovich Stanisforovich on the time-limit for the submission of parliamentary credentials in accordance with article 81, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine in connection with a personal application for parliamentary powers. According to the requirements of part one of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Stanislav Telisforovich. The Supreme Council's draft regulation is added, it's on your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u27	The draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski, registration number 8308, is submitted to the vote. [[10:19:55]] For 271 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u28	At the meeting of the Committee on October 19, this year, a statement was considered and supported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich, on the time-limit for the appointment of deputies in accordance with article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the requirements of part one of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine”, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukraine’s People’s Deputy, Head Sergei Petrovich. The committee supported and suggested making the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the presentation of the terms of office, Sergey Petrovich the Head requests that he be given the opportunity to speak before the Supreme Council. It's about a man. He's got a right like his last name. Well, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! First of all, I would like to express my deep gratitude to all of you for having given me the opportunity to work with you as members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call and that we are somewhere in common. I joined some of the Supreme Council's positive decisions. I want to thank the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, whose list I became the deputy of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Assembly, and together with the faction of the Socialist Party they have delegated me to the Parliamentary Delegation of our National Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thanks to these two factions, I have been able to serve for three years as the head of the Rules of Procedure Committee of PARJA, and since January this year as the Legal Committee of Human Rights of PARJE. I would say, of course, not easy, I would say, I'm leaving Parliament, I love parliamentary work, but in this situation, when a resolution was adopted in Strasbourg and we have a lot of tasks, I hope for support and this call to parliament, and in the new one, maybe I will also be in Parliament, that together we will speed up the removal of all the debts that Ukraine has been carrying for a long time, even though this year marks decades in the membership of the Council of Europe. I want our country to be clean from any commitments, debts, and I hope very much for your support in this and cooperation. Thank you all very much and I wish you success, both in parliamentary activities and in the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues! The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy head Sergio Petrovic is put to the vote. Registration number 80307. [[10:23:26]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as you know, the decree of the President of Ukraine, Sergio Petrovich Head, was appointed Minister of Justice. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the minister of justice is appointed as a member of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, members of the High Council of Justice take an oath before taking office at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the High Council of Justice applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Sergey Petrovich Headate, is invited to the rostrum to take the oath of a member of the High Council of Justice to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u32	I, the Chief Sergey Petrovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers, and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the issue of the election of individual Ukrainian national deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. Rapporteur, First Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, at the meeting of the committee on October 19, this year, discussed the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Mordovian Leonid Mihajlovich, a member of the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction. About his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information. In view of the fact that the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information does not have a representative from this faction, the committee decided to support the statement made by Ukrainian National Deputy Mordovian Leonid Mihajlovich on the election of Ukrainian National Deputy Mordovian Leonid Mihailovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Word and Information. A draft decision shall be made. We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u35	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Ukrainian National Deputy Mordovian Leonid Mihajlovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, registration number 8310, is put to the vote. [[10:26:45.]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! On October 19th of this year, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin, a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Korčinsky Anatolia Ivanovic, a member of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" about his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs. Taking into account that the accounting quota for several members of the committee of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been fully used in foreign affairs, the committee decided to support the application of the national deputy of Ukraine and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Anatolia Ivanovic, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u37	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the national deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, registration number 8309, is being put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:28:12]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! On October 19th of this year, a statement was made by the Ukrainian national deputy Pak Vladimir Petrovich, a member of our Ukrainian delegation, on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transport, housing and communications. Taking into account that the estimated quota for the number of members of the “Our Ukraine” faction in this committee has not been fully used, the committee supported the application and submitted to the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Pak Volodymira Petrovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u39	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Pak Volodymyr Petrovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, transport, housing and communications is under way. Registration number 8311. Please vote. [[10:29:44]] For 310 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u40	To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mihajlovich of 4 October 2005 at the meeting of the Committee on 19 October this year, a statement was considered by the Ukrainian National Deputy of Borovsky Mikli Ivanovich and a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Mikoli Ivanovic, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Porovski Mikola Ivanovic. Registration number 8229 from October 4, 2005 to meet the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the calculated quota for the representation of non-fractional national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the fuel and energy complex of nuclear policy and nuclear safety is three times higher, the Committee decided not to support the application of the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Milo Ivanovich, to elect his member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of the Ukraine, Mr. Milo Ivanovic, Member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a palio-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security. But, dear friends, we have a committee discussion on this, because MPs who are not part of any group or factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can still work in accordance with the rules of the laws in force where they still want to work, especially if they take into account the profession of this national MP. Porovsky Mikola Ivanovich worked in this area, and I believe that it is the Supreme Council that is able to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Nikola Ivanovich, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security is put to the vote. Registration number 8229. Please vote. [[10:32:28]] For 232 Decision taken. All right, you got it, Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u42	No, no, there's still a change to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u43	Come on, please. May I have your attention, fellow officers? Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u44	Thank you. Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, to carry out the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich, from October 7, 2005, at the meeting of the Committee on 19 October this year, discussed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of the laws of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andriy Shkilem, registration number 8261 of 07.10.2005, according to the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. In connection with the formation of parliamentary powers as a member of the panel noted by Matvienko Anatoli Sergiyovich, a faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, Sasa Sergio Volodimirovich and Sinchenko Sergio Grigorovič, is proposed to be part of the same committee of national deputies. According to the committee’s draft decision, the committee invited the National MP, School Andrew, to work on the draft decision in connection with what was a violation. Infringement of article 6.2. 7 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, according to which the proposed decision should be further based on the need for the decision. Unfortunately, there is no justification. I want to explain to our colleagues that the number of Fatherland factions has been doubled today, so there's a question of why 2 is proposed by Andrey Schlem. But I would like to emphasize once again that the committee is still proposing that the draft regulation be finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind Andrew School, maybe we'd put it to a vote, be determined by a vote, because we don't know what to do here. Let the Supreme Council determine by vote. No warning? Well, let's do it this way. Vasil Vasilovich, I see. Peter Stepanovich! Now, you do a report on other draft decrees, and then we exchange thoughts. So that we can exchange our thoughts right away. Please make other decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u46	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm here for my esteemed colleagues once more. Friends! We agreed that a change would be made to this commission: one in 20 national deputies. So they have the right to make two. There's no questions. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania Volodymyr Mihajlovich of 12 October 2005, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the composition of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft laws of Ukraine amending the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogotirov Rajis Vasilovna, was discussed at the Committee meeting on 19 October 2005. Registration number 8261-1 from 11.10.2005. It's part of that one. This temporary special commission is proposed to select the Ukrainian national deputy, Skin Igor Mihajlovich, in connection with the increase in the number of members of the Ukrainian Party's MP. Considering that the draft regulation is fully in line with the requirements of Rule 4.6.3. of the Rules and Chapter 6.2. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8261-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I would like you to sit down before this, Vasil Vasilovich, and then we will vote. In addition, I would like to announce that another proposal has been made to select from the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovic. We discussed this issue several times at the Conciliation Council, but we did not agree there and agreed that when we put it to the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we would make all the proposals so that the Supreme Council would be able to determine. I'm asking you to sign up now, dear fellows, for three minutes, let's exchange our thoughts, but let's vote, let's figure out, because the broadcast is on the street. I don't think people are interested in our internal organizational issues. Let's vote now. Sign up for three minutes, please. Peter Cibenko. The recording has already taken place, well, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to address all my colleagues with such a request. In our time, you and I have made a decision to create an appropriate commission. And in particular, “Our Ukraine” has delegated a number of people today to the membership of this Commission. Then, after that, they got divorced and started adding people there in a new way. I'm absolutely convinced that we don't have to make these changes, this is the first time. Secondly, if instead of one super-deputy from a particular faction, two other deputies are proposed, well, I'm sorry, it's a fundamental violation of the quota principle. That's why I'm asking you, your honor, all three documents are not supported. Because this entails a change in the ratio of power within this Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u49	Vladimir Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u50	Bronnikov, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Richtyre Raise Vasilievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u51	Raisa Richterov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u52	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to support proposals and other factions for some change or some of our MPs and factions as part of the Supreme Council commission on draft laws, but I want to point out at the same time that only my ruling has been considered in the regulatory committee. It meets the standards and is approved. So if the other groups are not identified right now, please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, put my ruling to the vote. And the last. We didn't break up, we didn't fold, we didn't break up. We've had some changes. The number of troops did not fall much, and the deputies came out as representatives of our faction. So it's quite logical that we've filed for the replacement of the emerging members.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u53	Andrew School, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u54	Thank you. I want to make a special point for those who don't understand what's going on, and I want to emphasize that the faction of the Yulia Block has increased almost three times. And that's why we have, if we have one representative since we were 20, we have the right to two representatives on this committee, and we have Matthewnko out of there. So we're proposing instead of Matthew, one person, and by increasing the faction of another person. It's all consistent with the quota principle, and I don't see any problems with that. So I'm going to propose a package to vote these things out or in a row, as it's comfortable here. But to support, because there are no violations, there are no problems. It's just a technical process and we want the commission to work qualitatively and fully, because now the attention to it is fixed, beyond the legal force of the polytreform on January 1st, and we want our faction to be properly represented on this committee. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I'm in line with their reports, these draft regulations, I'm going to put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the composition of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukrainian laws on the amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 8261, by Andri Shkil. It is proposed that the commission be put in place of Matvienko Anatolia Sasa Sergey Volodymyrovich and Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovitch. Let's identify ourselves by voting. [[10:41:37]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Yes, by factions, please. Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 44, National Party - 7, "Our Ukraine" - 21, Block Timoshenko - 30, SPI - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, "Go, Ukraine!" - 6, SDPU (o) – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 8, “Reforms and Orders” – 12, “Industrials and Entrepreneurs Party” – 11, “Ukrainian People’s Movement” – 12, “non-fractional” – 6. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the composition of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. The essence of the draft decision: it is proposed to introduce a representative of the Ukrainian faction “Region” Skin Igor Mikolaiovich. Registration number 8261-1. Please vote. [[10:42:49]] For-183 The decision is not taken. The draft Decree, registration No. 8188, on changes in the composition of the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine is submitted to the vote. It is proposed that Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich be part of this commission from the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine. [[10:43:30.]] For 176 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking the committee to work, please. If there's a package offer, then we put it to the vote. The draft Order on Hearing Information of the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting of V.F. Shevchenk on Judicial Persecution of the National Television Network Board "NTN" and the reasons for a large-scale operation by the National Council of Air Frequency Redistribution. I'd like to ask very briefly. Dear colleagues! The two factions of the Social Democratic Party and the faction of the People's Party require a recess or a declaration. Is that what this is about? Please make a brief announcement as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u56	A statement by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine regarding the provision of freedom of expression in the context of the approach of the electoral campaign. [[united]] The faction of SDPU(o) expresses its firm protest over government actions aimed at limiting freedom of speech. In our opinion, what is happening today around TET, CROMAC, NTN, and Ukraine, does not correspond to any canons of a democratic state. A particular concern is the desire for power by interfering with the activities of the TRC “Ukraine” to politicise the language issue and to provoke dissatisfaction among the people of the south-eastern region. The United Social Democrats stress, any legislative and notable acts that regulate the use of languages in the media should be in line with the requirements of the ratified European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. In fact, Ukraine has established a monopoly control over the decision of the National Council on Television and Radio. The opposition has been denied the possibility of influencing licensing policy, which exposes, irrespective of the influence of the orange authorities, the media to the risk of imposing politically motivated sanctions in the elections for a violation of the terms of the licence. There is also reason for concern about the situation in the area of cable television, which is not protected from political manipulation during elections. All of this is fundamentally contrary to European democratic standards, creating conditions for multiple abuses during the electoral campaign. As a result of the reckless, misdirected policy of the management of the National Television Company, the activities of the First Channel of Ukrainian Television have been destabilized. Protests are ongoing among his employees, and the fate of the social television project remains uncertain. With regard to the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, the faction of SDPU particularly draws attention to articles that regulate media activities and are openly anti-democratic. In view of the fact that, according to the final provisions of this law, it is possible not later than 240 days before the elections, so today is virtually impossible, the SDPI calls upon all the political forces involved in the elections to sign a special memorandum on the relationship between the media during the elections. Within the framework of the memorandum, political parties and blocs should be obliged not to challenge media action if they fail to comply with the law on the election of national MPs to restrictions on freedom of expression. In order to prevent the violation of democracy in the media field, the SDPU considers it necessary to introduce a moratorium on the introduction of the State's moratorium on the testing of media during the electoral campaign, the prohibition on the rotation of the leadership of urban and district newspapers in state or municipal ownership, the acceleration of the creation of social television, the withdrawal of the leadership of the Television and Radio Broadcasting Board, the signing of all the political forces involved in the elections, the memorandum on the principles and relations of the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, a draft regulation on the hearing of information by the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio, Shevchenka, on the prosecution of the National Council of Television “NTN” and on the reasons for a major operation by the National Council for the transfer of air frequencies is under consideration. Schurm's reporter. I ask, one minute later, the committee, Sergey Makarovich's proposal that we vote, let the Supreme Council decide. Please, Igor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u58	Yesterday, at a committee meeting, a mutual agreement was reached between the drafters of the ruling and the members of the committee. We agreed to the invalidity in some sense of the title of the decree, so the authors changed and gave a replacement project, which reads: “To listen to information from the head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting of Shevchenk on the intention of disenfranchising the licenses of the television channel NTN and the reasons set up by the National Council of Ukraine for the redistribution of air frequencies.” In recent times, society has witnessed all the new and new scandals that the National Council on Television and Radio is a major figure. Nakrad’s actions around the etheric frequencies of special sharpness take place on the eve of parliamentary elections. What is more, in connection with the discussed orientation of Nakrad’s actions for the benefit of one of the well - known television channels. The final decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is also taken in the context of the sound. It is known that the Supreme Court of Ukraine, by its October 4th ruling, overturned the ruling of the Supreme Economic Court of the Court of First Instance and the ruling of the Court of Appeal in the case of broadcast television channels. The Resonance of the NNT Foundation provides widespread information on the pressure exerted on judges who have considered it and direct pressure on the House's head on the business affairs of the Supreme Court of the Ukraine of Shitsky Ivan Bogdanović. Regrettably, society receives clear signals about the authorities’ intentions of reorienting all existing media into their own interests. And again, unfortunately, the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, which is doing everything possible, including through court cases, to secure appropriate broadcast frequencies by loyal television channels. The above provides the basis for hearing information from the Head of the National Television Council of Shevchenk about the intention to remove the licenses from the NTN television channel and the reasons for the Nacra’s redistribution of the air frequencies. I'd like to make one more point. Today, in a civilized European world in Ukraine, thinking heads say that the process of reprivatisation has no future, it is impossible. So, in our view, the process of reprivatisation in terms of air frequencies is also impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u59	Yes, please have a seat. Sergei Trueko from the committee, please. Dear colleagues, please let the Supreme Council determine this matter. People on the street are standing there, and they don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u60	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We've faced a problem that has accumulated for 15 years, as licenses have been issued by previous Nakrada warehouses, that's what only these Nakrada warehouses know. From the very beginning of her work, the council did not pay for the service to be called all the frequencies in Ukraine. Someone took the Ministry of Defense, someone was looking for it, some license was issued for the competition. What they found was then settled in any order, especially in court. I mean, it was a practice. Now we want to do one stroke, or the new Nakradah warehouse, by one stroke, to correct all the mistakes. It's a very difficult thing to do. With regard to this particular situation, the votes of the committee were divided: four to five, but in the position that the head of the Nacra needs to be heard, the information will never harm and the problems there will never be great. On the other hand, the NTN channel has a license obtained after the competition, it has a licence supplement that it has obtained under judicial decisions. That was the practice. She wasn't worth it. It is not for the courts to direct the television of Ukraine and so on, for example, the District Court or even the Supreme Court in all its respects, and yet the National Council. But that was the practice. One of the branches of power, i.e. the judiciary has decided that, and I personally believe that we should give the channel "NTN" peace. When the license is completed, there will be new competitions. And with regard to the report of Nakrad’s head, of course, the committee supports the need to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u61	The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the hearing of information by the Head of the National Television and Radio Council of Shevchenk on the intention of disposing of the TV channel "NTN" and the reason set up by the National Council for the Redefinition of Air Frequency is submitted to the vote. Registration number 8271 instead of the previous one. Please vote. [[10:53:41]] For 264 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction 51, the Ukrainian People's Party 47, the People's Party 37, Our Ukraine 0, the Timoshenko Block 19, the SPU 25, the Ukrainian People's Party 0, the Go, Ukraine! 19, the SDPU (o) 20, the One Ukraine - 12, the Reforms and Orders - 3, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 15, the People's Movement of Ukraine - 0, the Non-Factional - 16. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 has been announced for consideration. [[first - Reading Review]] According to the Budget Code, such rules of procedure are proposed. The Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues reports on the findings and proposals of the Committee on Budget Issues to the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006. Representatives of the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Deputies and the Groups, the National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Court of Auditors participate in the discussion. The adoption of a decision on conclusions and proposals to the Ukrainian draft State Budget Act 2006 is considered to be the first to adopt the draft State Budget Act 2006 in the first reading. The committee proposes such rules of procedure. A report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Ludmila Suprun, in 15 minutes, an answer to a question, within 10 minutes, a statement by the head of the Court of Auditors, within 10 minutes, a statement from the Cabinet of Ministers, up to 10 minutes, statements by representatives of factions, committees, national deputies, up to an hour. The final word from the committee - to 5 and to the decision-making - to 5 minutes. No warning? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. When we get across. One minute, Oleg Grigorovich. When we get to the discussion, if we need to continue to discuss the matter, then we can work it out. No objections? Please, Oleg Belarus microphone. And we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! An extremely important question. I don't see anything in the government's bed, either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance. What's that? What are we going to talk about, who? Ask who? To Discuss With Whom? I propose that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister come here immediately. Without this proposal, do not start the discussion on the 2006 State Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u63	He had just been the minister of finance, who should be obliged to deal with the matter. Please find out where the minister of finance is. And let's get to work. Because if. Well, please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Let's finally get to the point, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know very well the requirements of the Budget Code. But I very much ask the honourable deputies to listen to one of the faction's proposals. There are three points in the decision to be considered. The attitude in our faction, as in many others, is different. So I ask you very much right now, when I come to this question, to divide this vote and to vote separately, after the paragraphs: the first paragraph, the second paragraph and the third. Because there is a very different attitude toward the content of these points. And so I would very much like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is the only way to save the situation today and find a construct in our discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Well, I think we'll come up -- we'll find consensus then, to make a decision, the decision of the Supreme Council, I'd like to emphasize. At the same time, dear colleagues, there is a minister of finance. We have every reason to be calm, for a substantive, substantive and professional review of Ukraine's 2005 budget. The report invites Ludmila Suprun, the head of the committee. Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. We begin our consideration of the State Budget Act, submitted by the government, for 2006, in an extremely complex and political and economic situation. We could support the suggestion of the BUREAU faction that it is necessary to consider the law only when the government is fully in stock. Because in fact, we're giving an objective assessment of the document that was submitted next year on the financing of budget expenditure and budgeting, and actually that document depends on the development of the economy and people's lives in 2006. I'd like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to one thing. You and I are to be critical of this bill today. That is what the Supreme Council functions as at the first reading. This draft Law could be criticized and criticized because it does not meet both the requirements of the Constitution and the requirements of the Budget Code. It does not take into account, practically, a third of our budget resolution requirements. Only a third of it is partially accounted for. And only one third is fully accounted for. Thus, the Law of 116 paragraphs does not include 32 paragraphs of the budget resolution. We've been looking at this document in detail, we've got all the local self-government agencies involved, we've got the chief supervisors involved, we've got experts involved. What our conclusion is, you see in these proposals of the budget committee today. Our task is to support these critical conclusions and to send this document to the government, because today we are shaping the Supreme Council's attitude towards this document. At the same time, about four thousand proposals were made by the National Deputies, the Supreme Council Committees, the Deputies factions, the National Bank, which are grouped into 2,000 200 proposals, even more. What is the essence of these proposals? Most of the proposals are designed to increase budget spending without real sources. I can say that it is proposed to increase funding from the budget by nearly 60 billion, with factions offering to increase funding by about 25 billion, committees by 18 and national deputies by almost 15 billion. This applies to social protection, social security, education, agar sector, defence, health, law enforcement, transport, industry, construction, fuel and energy, environmental protection, culture, spiritual and physical development, science and others. I mean, the budget doesn't satisfy anyone today. So we propose in the text of our conclusions and suggestions to review macroindicators, to stop interfering with Ukrainian tax laws. So when we talk about the formation of an income base and the government's proposals for lowering individual types of taxes, partly the committee supported these proposals, particularly with regard to reducing the wage burden on a certain part of the insurance contribution to the Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment. Why did the committee support such a proposal? We think that because, according to data provided by the Cabinet of Ministers, about 500,000 jobs have been created, there can certainly be a reduction in the burden on such a fund, but on our request where these jobs are, we have not received an answer so far, either in the region or in the economic sectors, and we see that according to the unemployment insurance fund, the number of citizens who have become extra into the account has only increased. So there's a huge gap between words and things. As for another tax reduction. This is a deduction for the Pension Fund. When the government proposes 3 billion more in the following year to transfer taxpayers from the state budget to the Pension Fund, to talk about lowering this, this rate of pension payments is absolutely illogical. We have to do everything today to start an economy, not pretend that someone is trying to lower taxes somewhere, especially in the light of the adoption in March of a project submitted by the government regarding the full tax burden on all businesses, the elimination of special zones, when it comes to real investment, not fictitious investments from offshore companies, when it comes to industry benefits and support for domestic goods, and not fictitious benefits for the unknown, when we actually cut down the car industry, shipbuilding, aircraft construction, and loading them with what they can't pay today, which, in turn, results in actually reducing the activity of such businesses and losing jobs. And, of course, the loss of revenue in the State budget. Only the adoption of a distorted oil import law, in fact, stopped three huge Ukrainian companies by one stroke, these are oil refineries in Ivano-Frankivsk, in Herson, in Odeshchen. And the cost of this budget today is measured by billions. Billions! About 250 million of these factories each month paid to the State Budget, not taking into account taxes paid from the incomes of citizens who received wages from these enterprises. Instead, import taxes are increasing. I mean, we feed foreign suppliers of goods and services today. And so this problem today is not reflected in the 2006 budget solution. I could say that our supply on the income side also means that we finally stop being statisticians. If the government is a statistician, then everything needs to be completely eliminated by the government, in the local self-government authorities, to place ATMs on the payroll, and so the function that the government budget today for local self-government is practically done, because the workload of the Labour Fund, the esteemed colleagues, on the local self-government bodies is not falling, but is increasing. If, in 2005, we had the highest level of workload under the Labour Fund at a normative rate of 82.6 per cent, in 2006 this burden would be 90.8 per cent in separate regions. Our local budget payroll accounts show that between 17 and 50 percent of local budgets are not enough to spend on basics, just on wages. Unfortunately, the government is completely disregarded by our requirement for a new approach to local budgets in accordance with the Act on State Social Guarantees and State Social Standards, where we should stop counting at the place, we should take into account the expenditure of local social services budgets and the standards that are being developed today. Regrettably, all the work on the budget was transferred to the government for the last three weeks before this document was submitted to the Supreme Council. And so the tax base that is now included in this law is absolutely not an effective change in legislation. We propose, as a committee and this is recorded in our budget conclusions, that the government not play with tax laws, but go to the parliament to seek consolidation here on tax legislation and submit a separate bill that will be able to regulate certain tax laws. In doing so, if they make things worse, they increase the pressure on taxpayers. I don't think Parliament will support such proposals, but reducing the tax base and at the same time eliminating the shadow payment schemes of wages, stimulating investment by removing the value added tax from investing in the economy, which has slowed down the development process in Ukraine. We must support, as we support, I think it will be a common position of the Supreme Council, the restoration and support of a domestic producer. This does not violate the standards that exist in GAT, WTO, WTO. This does not violate Ukraine's general position on the introduction of civilized forms of production and trade in the world market, it will only strengthen our position and make Ukraine's economy stronger and more independent. Our proposals apply not only to the formation of the income part of the non-reduction of payments to the Pension Fund but also to the consideration of the government budget deficit. I ask your particular attention in this regard. Today, the European budget deficit rate is about 3 percent; Germany has a deficit of 9 percent. Why do these countries go this way? Because they are confident that by investing in development, they receive a long-term source of funding for future budgets in their countries. We think that investing in privatization costs just to pay off external debt means stopping economic development. So our offer is to stop eating that money. Our proposal is to approve state, economic and social development programmes in terms of economics, not just in terms of life, love, harmony, eroticism and all. We strongly propose that the right and opportunity for the government be given only through the State Budget Act and the decision-making of state programmes for 2006 and the medium term, to consider increasing the deficit to 3 percent on one condition that these funds will be earmarked for development. Without additional investments, counting on the extra revenue of the State budget in a way that's hopeless, we're never going to have an economy that's developing. Today, the government is borrowing 4.9 percent, our financial system is funding 16-24, and for the APC, where we're paying off credit rates, it's up to 32 percent. In fact, we're trying to fool ourselves when we think that the support of the credit card is actually giving them lower rates, different ways. The APC simply washes and requires this extra money that they keep in place as compensation from the state budget. So I want to take a separate look at the problem of financing the APC next year. Our proposal is that the APC expenditure be at least 10 percent of the budget expenditure excluding transfers to the Pension Fund. But this money should go and so is written in our proposals, directly, to businesses through treasury. By not allowing any manipulation by government officials or by demanding bribes from them. It's the only way to give support to the real and our consumer, because it's going to have cheaper products, and it's going to have cheaper products, and it's going to have our producer today, who's in much worse conditions than other agricultural producers in many countries of the world, not just Europe, but the former Soviet Union, because today they have nothing but high-end loans, the inability to get agricultural technology, the constant fluctuations of the market. And so we can't fully support them right now. But our proposal in these budget conclusions is that the APC get the money right -- that's the money for development. And we think that the additional funds that should be allocated to the APC can't be less than 4 billion plus against what's written in the government bill. And we're also proposing to increase social spending for the APC, because they're twice proposing that the committee increase investment spending in regions, socio-economic development in regions. In addition, we also propose to increase the amount of gasification in rural areas to 450 million. We need it today. And we also wrote that if the government doesn't think it's necessary to make these changes and spend money on gasification, let me suggest how to solve this problem by reducing tariffs to heat people with heat at the expense of electricity. And this proposal was also worked out and agreed with the profiling committees. As far as our decision is concerned. Dear colleagues, I think that everyone who will speak today will complement my speech and the committee's decision. I can say that we are extremely critical of the document that is presented. And this proposal is a real assessment that must be supported by the Supreme Council. We should send them to the government for further work and check on our assignments on the second reading. If they are not executed, it means that the government will not be able to deal with the budget next year. And this will have to be the case when we consider the bill in the second reading. We have a few points in the regulation that we're talking about today. We can agree to withdraw the second paragraph of this regulation because it practically duplicates the text of the budget code of article 41. Therefore, the committee may also agree and propose the motion to delete this paragraph in order to accept it as a basis and then to vote on it as a whole. Dear colleagues, if any of your suggestions you'll see in this table, you'll see that the partials included, especially the third appendix, we think all of these are right, but this is a question of second reading. And we're going to have to work on this document taking into account those proposals that are fully defined here and will be presented by the government for second reading. Our decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u67	Let me finish. All right, Ludmila Pavlovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u68	Two seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u69	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u70	Please support our conclusions and endorse them as the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council, because in fact they represent our position in relation to the document submitted by the government and formed on the basis of your proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u71	Yes, please sign up for the questions. Ten minutes as agreed. On the board is the name of the national MPs who are registered, please show. Olga Hinzburg, please have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u72	Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, I'm here! I'm concerned about the question, and yet you see, the formation of the country's budget is related to the formation of local budgets, very closely connected. You realize that 90 percent of the local budget is paid only. And once again, nothing in this budget is more than 11 billion. We see there's not enough for local budgets. Is there any way that it could have been considered on the budget committee, or is there any suggestion? You see, inflation again eats people's wages and pensions, you have to raise prices again for utilities, you don't have subsidies to local budgets, and today we're saying that we're ten steps away from people. Please explain, is there any movement in this budget or is everything at the old level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u73	Olga Petrovna, Your Honor, thank you for asking. If you look at our conclusions and proposals, there's a separate item about inter-budget relations, where we define what the government's error is in the formation of local budgets. They are redundant because the government has misapplied the local budget income formula, and we believe that this error must be corrected, and we will control such calculations. First. The other one. We propose to move to a new system of cost-generating for local budgets, not by one person's bracelet, but by the principle of social services. Today, this is a requirement of legislation, and this is a requirement of the MP Corps. That is the position we have in our conclusions. You've got a very clear picture of this problem here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u74	Gennady Samofalov, "Regions of Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u75	I would like to give the floor to a colleague in the “Regions” faction of Homutiniku Vitalia. Homutinnick Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u76	Vitalia Homutinika's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u77	Sophia Pauline, such a question. You're criticizing the budget, and I agree with you that it's far from perfect, but what do you suggest? We analyzed your findings and the proposals made by the faction of the Regions are almost 90 percent off. More than that, why do you propose to make proposals for an increase in rates and an increase in the number of local taxes and congregations, the introduction of real estate taxes, the increase in the minimum and marginal size of the single tax rates for small business entities? [[122 Position]] Do you know that these are impenetrable positions in the Supreme Hall? Why are you suggesting this? So I don't think we're going to vote for the budget proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers or for the conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u78	I could say it was an offer, if you look at the table, one of the factions of the national MPs. With regard to the introduction of a fixed property tax. Dear colleagues, as long as we don't read the budget resolution with you, we'll have our differences in our conclusions. This is recorded in the Budget Resolution. The real estate and tax on it, you know, should be small, small, but it's the basis for the formation of local budgets. And if we don't want to introduce any of these taxes, we're going to have increased production loads. The real estate tax should have been introduced. But what will it be? 50 copies per square metre or one bracelet, I can say that on Ukraine's scale, the introduction of one bracelet per year per square metre per dwelling area alone would give you one and a half billion dollars for local budgets. It's not the money we want to spend on the State budget for some reason -- this money should stay in place and provide the basis for housing reform. With regard to a fixed tax, a tax on small business subjects, you know that we need a law that can determine the only and only approach to a single tax. Today, there is injustice: the person who receives 200 dollars a month pays 190 dollars a patent; the person who receives 200 grand pays 190 dollars a patent. So we think that this tax should be proportionally distributed to income. And this is a proposition from both your committee and the entrepreneurs that meet, because when there's more income and there's a lower rate, we have to understand that we are unfairly charging small and medium-sized businesses with such taxes. As for the introduction of a tax, it may be for the following year only as a registration fee for its area, residence, or nonresidential area. I said that at the rate one bracelet is one and a half billion dollars for local budgets, not for the State. We need this money in local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u79	Katerina Fomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Ludmila Pavlovna, I very much ask you to explain more clearly to the Supreme Council today that the Budget Committee has fully agreed on the budget of the working group to increase the funding of local budgets, and the lack of resources has amounted to 10.7 billion. This is why the project now provides five billion additional funds per formula for local budgets that the local budget has not found any additional sources. But the requirements for the Cabinet of Ministers to increase the funding of local budgets are almost 11 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u81	Katerina Alexandrovna, I think you'll have a chance to speak up, and you'll stop at this problem in more detail. But our position is for local budgets to receive at least 20 percent of their funding today. That's 10.7 million dollars. We have over-consolidated programs in the principals, and let's leave them with income, so that they can spend money, so they can pay their wages, not buy, not distribute money on programs, but run government policies and nothing else. And the funds to be transferred directly from the principals to the local budgets will be better understood: What do they need today? Medical supplies or roofing, roads, or something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u82	Lilia Grigorovich, please, the faction “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u83	Lilia Grigorovich, National Union of “Our Ukraine”. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, of course, it's extremely bad when two governments are preparing the budget, of course it's bad when definitions, friendship, love, harmony are not filled with real meaning and development. But I want to ask you a rhetorical question. We're not taking the first budget in this room, including me and you. And every time we have a situation like this, it's sown, there's a heating season, there's a budget. That's why I want to ask you: what are we, Parliament, people's deputies, and what I want is an honest answer the day before the parliamentary elections, because we're now white, plump, we usually want to look before our voters. That we, MPs, have not completed in order to have harmonised fiscal legislation in order to have more local self-government rights written down, or to have those formulas hidden and, at the very end, to ensure, in fact, that the development process that we want to see in our budget today is legally ensured. What haven't we done?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u84	Dear Lilia Stepanovna, I can say that the problem you're talking about is already a problem of political reform. Until the government believes that he is the only one in the country, there will be problems. Political reform needs to be carried out, the government needs to have an appropriate majority in Parliament, then the government and parliament – it will be one system of government. And it will be controlled by opposition. We have a half-decided decision today on such political reform and in my opinion, if the government formed by the faction MPs, who today do not make up the majority in Parliament, it will be very difficult for him to make his proposals. We could send this document to the very first stage of its consideration, directly to the government. But there was no one to send, for he himself was retired at the time. So today we just have the fruits of this situation and I'm proposing to the MPs not to stop at the budget process, now to confirm our conclusions and proposals of the Supreme Council, to send the document to the government. If he can overcome these problems, he'll give us a bill if he can respond to this bill by counting the macro indicators, let him do it. If he considers it possible to come to Parliament and work with all the political forces, it will be his greatest victory. Another way I'm going today is to tell you honestly, I can't really see the budget adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u85	Oleg Belarus, if you please, the faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u86	Please give the word to Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u87	Eugene Kirilchuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Ludmila Pavlovna, please tell me this is the budget of the Ministry of Finance or the government budget. If there's only one Pinzenik present, it's disrespect for both the government, that's Parliament, and the leadership of Parliament, and all of us. You remember that when budget changes were needed, Julia Tymoshenko sat with us on the budget committee to find some points that were said to be a common solution to the problems that there are. Why is it so disrespectful as you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u89	I can say that when we were working on the state budget, we did not see much support for the proposals made by the government from ministries and departments. And they've all talked about one thing: that today's budget formation is the principle that we have today, that is, we've written down the control number, and keep distributing what you want, has actually lost its relevance. That's why government officials can't come here because they actually think they would agree with our proposals themselves, with our conclusions, and disagree with the government's budget. Although I can say that all of these proposals, that this budget was voted at a government meeting and was supported. And this budget is actually the budget of the previous government, maybe some minor changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u90	Thank you, Sophia Pavlovna. Sit down, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, well, we'll have a process of discussion. We've already agreed, time's up. We are then. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Please, calm down, please. Dear colleagues, I would like us to be aware of two things. I'd like to say that in particular. I think if we look at the government's bed, we can conclude that the matter of the budget is a matter of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government has submitted its budget, which he sees as an option, and has actually withdrawn. Well, maybe there's the Ministry of Finance, because there's a minister of finance. But we must accept the kind of budget that Ukraine needs, at least in its conclusions and recommendations today, we must do so. The non-admission of this budget, as some factions say, is the easiest way not to have a budget in Ukraine at all. The non-acceptance of the budget is the support of Parliament for the implementation of that scenario, which is that the budget is not accepted. Talk, win the election, and then accept the budget that is needed for those who win the election, not for Ukraine. So we need to take these conclusions, and what's more, I would like to quote you to the Advisory Board's decision on local self-government issues, and it was adopted when considering the proposals made by the budgetary committee, I quote: "The Cabinet of Ministers' 2006 draft of the State Budget of Ukraine is considered unacceptable in view of the constitutional principles of local self-government." Second item: “Recommend to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary issues to deal with proposals made at the Advisory and Advisory Board on Local Self-Government and to propose its version of the 2006 Draft State Budget”. In fact, the conclusions and proposals are consistent with the local self-government bodies, the ones responsible for the budget. And that's what we need to do. We'll have the opportunity to clarify change and complement. But we suggested that we increase our budget substantially. Let's get out of this when we consider this question, I would very much ask you. Yes, you are invited to address the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin. Please. And then we'll ask the Minister of Finance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies present! The Court of Auditors carried out an examination of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2006 and its results are sent to you, the distinguished people's deputies, as well as to the Government, the President of Ukraine. I'm sure they've been introduced. In that regard, I would like to address only certain budgetary policy issues. First. Lessons in the 2005 budget and budget culture. The implementation of the State budget adopted in March of this year, the budgets for the implementation of the pre-election promises and the revolutionary feasibility had had an extremely negative impact on the pace of economic growth, the inflation processes of the balance of payments, and the sustainability of monetary policy. And if we evaluate the 2006 draft budget from this point of view, unfortunately, it does not differ from the 2005 budget. Moreover, as the expert has shown, the combination of budget deficits in the budget could lead to an economic crisis. The President of Ukraine, as it were, said: “We want to introduce a new economic culture, a new financial culture next year”. That's what he said. Regrettably, the Government and the Ministry of Finance have submitted a bill on the State budget drawn up with numerous violations of the Ukrainian Constitution and the Budget Code. More than half of the main budget policies have not been implemented. The records of the Court of Auditors provide specific examples of these violations. A fundamental change, as you understand, requires the process of passing a bill in the Supreme Council. Adoption of the budget for consideration, a purely technical issue that does not speak of anything, but is the main stage in the budget. First reading, today you will confirm what you have done. The second reading will go on, and you'll see what's on the second reading of 2,000. the proposals you make, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance will leave at best 60-70 issues, all others will be left out of the equilibrium of words and some misunderstandings will be rejected. And only the third reading, where the MP is already acting as the first violin, but in the third reading, can only indicate the cosmetic order in the budget but not change the ideology. It is therefore necessary to draw on the experience of world practice and not to act in any special way that we claim to have, but to see the State Budget Act as all the rest of the bills. This is an experience of world practice. Second, the reality of the budget indicators. Optimism is a good feature, optimism itself, but given the continuing slow economic activity, it is planned in 2006. Real GDP growth by 7 per cent is extremely optimistic, and the Cabinet of Ministers' explanation, please listen. The main factor in economic growth will be the increasing consumer demand for households and. activity in the country can only bring about a brief smile. Perhaps this is why article 1 of the bill proposes not to determine the amount of income, but only its forecast, for the first time in world practice, the revenue of the State budget is defined in the law as forecasting parameters. And that means there is no responsibility for their execution. Problem is, the income of the budget remains a value added tax. You know the position of the Court of Auditors that it is necessary to replace it as soon as possible with a sales tax. But this issue is not being resolved today, so it is necessary to maximize the increase in the collection of this tax, especially in respect of future tax liabilities. This reparation is currently only included in the taxpayers'accounting documents without the participation of the State bodies and the same Ministry of Finance and is not reflected in the performance reports on income. The price of the question is immeasurable. As at 1 September this year, 6 billion bracelets or more than 29 per cent of their income had been reimbursed for future value added tax payments. This amount is, of course, a burden for both the current year's budget and next year's budget. But it is not included in the draft budget. There are specific proposals in the Court of Auditors' submissions to address this problem. In income matters, attention should be paid to the role of the public sector in filling them. The Supreme Council committed the Government to taking into account the financial plans of natural monopolies and national companies. The State budget and submit them to the bills. The commission remained unfulfilled. And it is not possible to assess today the reality of income generation in such natural monopolies as Naftegaz Ukraine, Ukretelekom. It's not worth millions, it's billions. Budget expenditure. A number of laws are currently in force in the legal field to determine the specific allocations to be made annually in the budget for a particular sector. This also applies to education, health, defence, science, culture and other industries. As a rule, the ratio to national income or gross domestic product is the reference point. We'll take the Ministry of Defense. Today, at least 3 per cent of GDP. That's 15 billion bracelets. There's 7.3 billion gruel in the budget. Unfortunately, this is repeated in all the other industries listed. As a result, the budget needs to provide 160 billion dollars of griven, 40 billion more than the total expenditure of the State budget. There is a legal or rhetorical question: “Is it possible to draw up a real budget in the context of such a legislative field? And who in the State is dealing with this issue? I can answer that. No one. Clearly, the principle of collective irresponsibility today benefits many structures and, above all, the Cabinet of Ministers. In 2002, the expenditure of the State budget is planned and approved in the implementation of the budget programmes. In practice, the budget programme is a large aggregate calculation for the use of finance and only for the financing of the structure itself. Many programmes do not have a reasonable need for inclusion in the expenditure budget. Public programmes are generally approved in violation of the Constitution, not by the Supreme Council, but in most cases by the Government and even by individual ministries. There are 11 such programmes. The draft State budget, without any assessments and adjustments, provides for the implementation of programmes that ended in 2004 and ended earlier this year. This approach clears the expenditure portion of the budget. There are no priorities, so there is no specific economic policy in the State. Regrettably, the Government's intentions to improve the quality of life were lost among many budget programmes. You know. As soon as January 1st, December will be 400 bracelets of minimum wage. Given the consumer price index of 111.4 per cent, the real subsistence minimum will be reduced by almost 1.8 per cent in the coming year. The social security of the population, given the projected inflation, will also be reduced. The Ukrainian Act, which provides for social guarantees for certain categories, traditionally suspends four laws. And we are saying today that our budget is a social budget. The expenditure of the State Development Budget provides for 20.2 per cent of the total planned expenditure. Compared to 2005, it increased by 1.4 percentage points. But given the projected increase in consumer prices, the investment part of the budget is expected to increase. Government investment is proposed to approve 252 million grevens. Stay. This is 40 per cent less than 2005. The Government's intention to do so remained unfulfilled. They're very complicated. a revolving focus on the increase in the development budget. And the words of the President of Ukraine “in the next year’s budget, we estimate that the financing of the growth economy will increase by four times that of the economy of consumption” have risen in the air. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Minister of Finance Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich is invited to attend. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u93	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear compatriots! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is grateful to all national deputies, factions, and committees for making their proposals for the draft law. In total, over 2,000 offers were made for a total of about 100 billion dollars. This is another budget. Of course, in most cases these are not resource-efficient. You are now invited to consider a project prepared by the Budget Committee. Many of the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee are accepted by us and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, but there are principles that cannot be supported by the government. The main principle of difference from the government's bill is an increase in spending by 10 billion dollars. What's the reason why this was done? You can see that in the table. The government's draft budget envisioned a 1 per cent reduction in the tax burden on the economy. Including a reduction of 2 percent to the payroll fund, cancellation of customs congregations, and a decrease of 2 times in the currency - purchasing congregation. The absolute majority of government proposals are rejected. This increases the tax pressure on the economy by 4 billion dollars. The government's rejection of these proposals runs counter to the government's stated President of Ukraine and supported by the Budget Resolution on Tax Reduction every year, and this resolution is supported by you. Another principled moment. The government project envisioned a budget deficit of 1.9 percent of GDP. The budget committee’s option increases this deficit to three percent. This deficit, which is 15.4 billion dollars, is critical for Ukraine. It can't be covered with privatisation revenues. In other words, it is suggested that we borrow money and live in debt. This means an increase in the country’s debt by five and a half billion dollars next year and an increase in its expenditure on repayment to 16 percent of the revenue of the General Fund of the State Budget. It is also disturbing that the rise in budget deficits is taking place at the same time as the increase in fixed rather than temporary expenses. It's a very dangerous policy. In 2000, it nearly caused a financial upheaval in the country from which the government of Victor Yushchenk rescued Ukraine. The Ukrainian Cabinet therefore insists on the removal from the draft of rules relating to tax evasion of government initiatives and an increase in budget deficits, with appropriate adjustments to the corresponding spending standards. At the same time, we would like to emphasise that we have the possibility to seek compromise, but within those proposals -- and they are -- that do not affect the budget deficit above the level foreseen in the budget resolution, which, I remind all of us, is two percent, but do not block a reduction in the tax burden on the economy. We need to highlight a few other important points where we need to find a coherent position in future work. The authorization for the distribution of capital expenditure to local budgets should be passed on to local authorities. We do not have the right to look calmly at the fact that more and more funds are being spent on unfinished construction and the only policy of construction is not being implemented. Regarding the price of gas. We have to respond to the challenges of time and implement these costs, the energy conservation programme and the transfer to the power supply of the population. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine disagrees with the removal from the law of land privatization under privatized objects. The government had planned all of this 1.5 billion dollars for investment projects. It is not supported that the granting of a 100 million euro loan to Ukraine for road construction, the 2006 budget, we made a unique gesture, we increased the road fund by almost 2 billion dollars. What's with the credit? What's more, they've been given credit this year. So they won't be able to bring him back? And then budget commitments on return? It raises objections and is suggested in the draft decision to exchange military property for housing. Such a procedure leads to mismanagement and embezzlement of property. Property should be sold exclusively at open auctions and competitions. And lastly, we have a fairly simple, logical problem ahead of us if we don't politicize this problem. 110 billion dollars is the 2005 budget. That's what we've allocated to our citizens in the current year. At 110 billion this year, the wages of pensions, relief, financial security, and local budgets are well below the level achieved. 21 billion dollars, that's the resource we get the extra next year, that's not much. Our job is to set priorities correctly. To whom and how much extra? If we dance in this circle, we will always find compromise. Because when it comes to increasing wages, for example, it is clear that the amount of money should be reduced for other purposes. It's simple, clear and honest politics. Honest to the country, to its citizens, honest to ourselves, but we'll always get stuck when we try to share what's not being shared, what we don't really have. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine expects us to be guided by this approach when we adopt the country’s main financial plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the reports have been completed, we are moving on to the presentations for the purpose of discussing the draft budget. Such order is proposed. First the heads, the authorized representatives of the MPs, then from the committees, but I would ask that it be either the heads of the committees, or their deputies, or another person who is authorized to do so, well, and then the average people's deputies. No warning? Please give the name of the national MPs who signed up for the debate. Yes, Katerina Fomenko from the National Party faction, please. Let's have a discussion now, dear fellows, before the first hour. It will be an hour of fifteen minutes. No warning? I think if there's not enough time, then we'll keep going. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u95	Catherine Fomenko, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians. The worst quality of the indicators is budgeted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to vote for it in the Kabmin version is really, really impossible, and more correctly, we have no right. The People’s Party faction officially made this statement two weeks ago because it almost did not foresee funding, drugs, food, repairs, purchases, anything our local authorities had forgotten. You want the facts, please. We have plenty of them because from October 3 to 7, we've adopted 25 areas, the city of Kiev and Sevastopol, and today we have full information about the state of affairs of local governments in 2005 and 2006. In fact, even the payroll fund is not enough. Today, 5 billion areas are under-calculated by the Wages Fund in 2006. Because it's no longer 80 percent, it's a figure that Minfin's already agreed to, it's 96 percent. The area is offered 3.5 percent of its expenditure on medicine, food, and energy. Please tell me how you can survive with this State Budget. The worst situation is that the funding of protected articles is projected to decrease in 2006 even below the 2005 level. Can you please tell me where else to finance them? Medical bills are 1.8 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you some examples in the Lugansk region, because this is one of those areas that has higher levels of budget coming from Ukraine. Severodonetsk has 67 copies of drugs in his bed. Millovsk district is 55 copies, Swatowski 52. The city of Curve Rig is 90 copies. Bed and breakfast is 2.20, 2-50 in the area. In the Lugansk Region of First Maze, 9 copies, Anthracyt 51 copies. The city of Equine costs 99 percent of its salary. Ladies and gentlemen! We don't have the right to agree with this budget, I want to draw your attention to the fact that none of the budgets have been so difficult. The Advisory and Coordination Council, the Advisory Council with the Chief of the Supreme Council, has supported our calculations and made its decision twice. The government's thesis before the 2006 budget, which was based on valuable and quality standards for social services, seems to be a mockery. Dear colleagues! Priority should be and should be given to the financing of local self-government bodies, which is why the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has given an order and all local budgets have been listed and we will require a resource of almost 11 billion additional to the financing of our territories. The second priority is to finance the village, which is being financed by the worst today. The PNB Council is funded by 152 per cent to 2005, the judges – 136 per cent, please tell us why the APC is only 124 per cent growth rate? Why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u96	Thank you, Catherine Alexandrovna, Eugene Kirilchuk of the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Alexander Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the "Fatherland" party. The positive thing about this budget is that it has raised the growth of gross domestic product by the government of Yulia Timoshenko to 512 billion against 345 last year, almost double the budget revenue, substantially raising the social payments to the poor themselves. In particular, the minimum pension increased from 142 in 2004, to 393 dollars, which is foreseen in 2006. Today, however, society has experienced the return of the budget to Kuchmism, the destruction of all the social programs worked by the government of Yulia Tymoshenko. Where are you going to hear today at least the intentions of continuing the fight against smuggling, where are you today seeing these figures that are set in the budget that were controlled monthly? On the contrary, old schemes for money laundering, concealment of profits, and tax evasion are being revived. No one even covers the fraternization and kiss of the bush oligarchs with the newly baked fats. Bribery and corruption are being revived with new power. Visitors who come to Ukraine are surprised by the high excesses, the luxurious palaces of ministries and departments, the number of Mercedeses, and the astronomical amounts for their maintenance. And along with this, the school’s God - forgotten and forgotten people, the hospital, the infirmary, especially in a village where there is not even enough money for heating and lighting. In fact, there's a development system in the budget and a system of total destruction of local self-government, and that's just when we have to form executive organs and start actions and changes to the Constitution. Our parliamentary proposals from the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko regarding the restoration of the village, agriculture, transportation, prosthetics, mining, and many others are simply rejected. And the money is, if the return line of the illegally privatized person, which was defined by Yule Timoshenko, was kept in the budget, it would be budget and consumption and development, and so it would be the budget of serving oligarchs and criminalised officials. The faction won't vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u98	Alexander Moroz, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, is invited to the presentation. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, MPs. It's strange to us during the whole budget process. A budget resolution is adopted, recommendations are accepted by the Supreme Council, proposals are made by the faction, and the government goes its own way and does what it can or seems to be convincing. Of course, not in the area of the agri-industrial complex, where funding is provided for twice as much as is provided by law, neither in education, nor in social payments, particularly for children of war, nor in terms of the return of savings to citizens, that we have, for a long period of time, put any amount in the budget, nor in terms of the ratio between budgetary relations, where there are now only 12 percent in local budgets, even against the 18 that have been set for today's year 2005. All of this makes it impossible for a group to vote factions for this budget. I think we should first look for the real income part of the budget through the socio-economic development programme. Here's an example of communication with Vladimir Seminovich Boyko, head of the Illich. He says that, on the average, according to the rates that his company pays for, on the average, at the rate of adjustment, given that this is, in fact, a specific industry, a steel industry, the whole budget should be at least 200 billion, or 250 billion, and then it will be enough for all the other needs. No one's counting on it. So I guess what the authorities need to do today? First. We need the President to gather the Cabinet of Ministers, heads of the factions of Parliament, and jointly consult on the philosophy of the budget next year. Because one way or another, a year of new rulership has passed. And we can’t keep referring to any political conjuncture. We need to define a nation's development strategy to make it a real development budget, but without losing social guarantees defined by laws. There are opportunities for this in Ukraine, only responsible work is needed on the preparation of this defining year of the document. I am convinced that even the attitude of today's Supreme Council to the budget of the Cabinet of Ministers is eloquent. It's causing some kind of reaction. I don't want to make any assessments right now, but I hope that the meeting I was talking about will take place, and we can give a concrete answer to what the budget really should be next year. Of course, such a project cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u100	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Bogdan Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, 161 constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I wanted to start my speech and say how much I live in this world, so much and so much I wonder, I'm probably going to die without realizing what's going on in the world. People, MPs, factions that are closer to or present in power cannot solve this issue. What else do you miss? I don't understand myself. When I was given some kind of authority, I know what to do with it, I just know what to do with it in my Konotapi. People who have been given such governmental authority do not know what to do with the budget. You don't know, listen to us, or give power to the Communist Party, she used to do it very well. You know, the local budget is 90, the higher the percentage is paid for the salary. Today you come to people, to cover the roof with nothing, to cover the utilities with nothing, to repair anything. There's nothing to eat in the hospital. It is not clear that this must be decided. Today, the venerable Pinzenik says: “Let’s set the right priorities. Come on. What's wrong with you? Well, what more power can you give that word "let's" be exercised? You see, the Communist Party offers simple things, very simple things. We're saying, first of all, look, set up a state monopoly on the production and implementation of liquor and tobacco products that will give revenue to the State Budget 15-20 billion. That's the first thing we're offering. What can be done to benefit our people. Because we work for them, for every person in our country who's 50 million, we work with you. We can raise the average wage for budget staff to a minimum of living. To pay off wages and social assistance $1.4 billion Exclusion for the understatement of five billion people’s contributions. Let's do it for 2006. We made a deal, we made a deal. That's different. Disposal of corrupt mud is a tax on added value, VAT, that is. That's going to give real income to 15 billion today. Money to the State Budget. What can we do about it? I'm very popular in explaining: support for agriculture -- one billion dollars, support for PEC -- up to five billion dollars, so we can raise our machine building. Reimbursement of interest on commercial banks will be reduced and so forth. Next thing we can do. Repayment of the debt to all owners, including NAC Naftobaz and others. If we are with you, honourable national MPs, we will not do so, and we will discuss the State Budget again as politicians today, our state in this crisis will remain. Let's talk about what we say before the elections and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u102	Bogdan Gunsky, a faction of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Prepare Yuri Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u103	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The faction of the "One Ukraine" party emphasises that the main issue of the State budget should be its focus on solving social problems. It's a key question. First of all, social stock. First of all, this refers to an increase in the minimum wage. Let's say that this year it was determined that as the basis of fiscal policy for 2006, it was predicted that the minimum wage would be 400 dollars. Today it's 350. So why did they cut it down? Actually, if we're talking about real pay, it's going to have to be 600. But we should not diminish what we have already accepted. Next. We generally insist that the definition of all social benefits in general should be based on the minimum standard of living that today, according to official estimates of experts, is about 500 dollars. What does the government offer? Reduce all social benefits several times. For example. Annual aid to the disabled of the 1st group of wars, war invalids are offered to reduce from 3,500 dollars to 400 dollars, fighters from 1,750 dollars to 250 dollars, and care for children to 3 years of age 90 dollars instead of 423, as is now the case. Well, that's not real. Next. Teachers and doctors. Well, they can't get a small pension and pay. We introduced a bill to compare teachers and doctors with government officials. By the way, this bill will be considered today. So let's put this into the budget right now, and that's really going to be social justice. The next important question is local self - government. Well, it's enough to share money in Kiev, which in the area, for example, needs to be built or repaired. The local authorities should decide on these matters. And in Kiev, we have to share the money that goes to the central authorities, the defense, the national security. Therefore, we believe that most of the expenditure should be transferred to local authorities, which should rightly decide how to finance, say, local expenditures in the area, in the city, and in the areas. The third question is the support of national science and culture. Well, we're already saying a lot that we need to increase the cost of science, but the car is said to be there now. And not only for salary, but also for material and technical security. Equally important is education, because we have always insisted and insist that every Ukrainian child who has no money but wants higher education should be able to get it at budget. That's why we think it's also necessary to put it in the budget. Well, it's both basic and important. This year there was a huge breakthrough in the social security of our citizens. We switched governments -- we changed what, priorities from that? Why are we significantly lowering social security today instead of raising social security? We're against it. And so when we took the money, let's say, from the clans we passed it on to the citizens, now we want to do it the other way around, we're against it. Therefore, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party will not vote in favour of this budget until the social benefits offered by us are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u104	Yes, please, Industrial Party. Was Yuri Ivanovich announced? Please, Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko. Next Verethennikov. Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko, faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u105	An analysis of the budget project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers shows that the negative trends in the Ukrainian economy in 2005 will only increase in the following year. The government's plans to increase social payments in 2006 to a population supported by our faction are completely out of balance with the real possibilities of the economy. This is the same budget for the last Ukrainian property as its predecessor, budget-2005, where Minfin sits and waits for it to be sold, whether it's a "Criminal" or a gas transport network, to pay off the teacher's salary and pay the tiny pensioner's money. This fiscal policy leads to complete bankruptcy in the Ukrainian economy, destroys the Ukrainian village, makes Ukraine an eternal beggar, who runs around the world with an extended hand, crying for help. What the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party proposes to prevent a systemic budget crisis. First, to stimulate economic development in the 2006 budget, there is a need to provide for the financing of sectoral programmes: shipbuilding, automobilising, aviation and the mobile composition of Ukraine's transport system. Such programs dramatically increase the consumption of Ukrainian metal, increase the capacity of the national market to produce finished products, and then increase its competitiveness. We demand that the government support the high-tech direction of the economy, which in a few years will return to the budget with new incomes and microcredit to small businesses, without which there is no market economy. The other one. For the APC, the faction proposes to increase budget subsidies, including the allocation of one billion dollars this year for the purchase of grain. We're asking Min. The APC costs to direct directly to each manufacturer through transparent mechanisms, rather than continue to apply traditional schemes of stealing villages and peasants by just new politicians. Third, the faction requires the government to adopt a different fiscal policy regarding local self - government. The new budget code, developed by the faction and adopted by the minister of finance, will allow us not to beg for what is due to him but to live as the community or the region does. This practice of developing a local budget exists throughout the democratic world. And we demand that it be applied by a new government. Last but not least, the faction claims that the 2006 budget is openly anti-Ukrainian. The project has stopped funding virtually all development programs: Ukrainian language, culture, historical heritage. For such a budget, it is not that the Ukrainian People's Party, no Ukrainian citizen will vote. The faction requires a fundamental change in budgetary policy. Only under such conditions will we vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u106	Verethennikov, “Parties of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs”. Prepare the Voisha.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u107	Honorary colleagues, the faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs believe that the draft budget for the following year needs serious adjustments, analysing the content of the main articles of the State Budget Act 2006 allows for the following conclusions: The budget is not based on a development strategy, but rather a consumption strategy. As far as estimates are concerned. What is at the heart of the budget calculations is that the expectation of results such as the rate of real GDP growth is 7%. The increase in industrial output is 9.5%, the increase in machine-building is 18%. In our view, they do not have a reliable foundation. The government budget, with a clear social dominant, is based on an overestimated estimate of basic macroeconomic indicators, i.e. without careful consideration of the risks. Voting on the decree. it is the vote on the prohibition of the privatisation of “Criminals”, which is about 15 billion in the budget, and is a confirmation of such risks. The 2006 budget is based on existing tax legislation. We propose to amend tax legislation first and to adopt a normal budget on the basis of these changes. Recently, at a business forum in Lviv, the president promised to introduce a single social tax this year, with a substantial reduction of 20 - 25% on the Labour Pay Fund. The faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs supports the president in this regard. By the way, I'm one of the co-authors of the single social contribution bill, but unfortunately, there's not yet enough support for the adoption of this law. We note that the introduction of temporary tax changes through the State Budget Act creates a coalition in legislation, is a major factor in instability for the business and investment climate of Ukraine. The faction proposes and insists on correcting those errors that were made when the 2005 adjusted budget was adopted, for which the faction did not vote. It is State support for priority areas such as shipbuilding, aircraft building, automobiles, and others, and support for a simplified corporate tax system. The increase in income from both government and local budgets is proposed not through fiscal approaches but through output from shadow production and tax liberalisation. Our faction proposes to restore free economic zones, but with the obligation to adapt them to WTO requirements. It has to be noted that the budget committee has taken a bit into account rather than taking into account such positions as undeclared VAT on investments in the statutory fund and others. Thus, the 2006 draft budget can be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u108	Thank you. Yes, please, Vladimir Vojsz, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Behind him is Victor Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine emphasizes, above all, the unrealities of the indicators set out in the budget next year. [[Joint]] We have already talked about this in the presentation of the budget, but unfortunately the picture has not changed. The adventurous rate of gross domestic product, 7 per cent, did not change the inflation forecast, 8.7 per cent, although hyperinflation was actually developing. It is now clear that this year's budget will not be implemented. Instead of calculating the income of the budget for the following year, based on the real economic situation in the country and honestly telling society how much money we have, what needs to be allocated to social programmes and what, for development, Kabmin has spent its budget on empty incomes and has allocated expenditure on very specific priorities. With the total increase in expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget, 16 per cent is proposed by the Government for individual positions, expenditure exceeding the average growth level is proposed. Where's the money going? The Treasury Department of Kabmin – 128 per cent, the State Judicial Administration – 136, the Attorney General's Office – 147, the Ministry of Justice – 137 per cent, the State Customs Service – 132 and the National Security and Defence Council - 152 per cent. That's what power is about today. The cost of computerization of schools is reduced by 16 per cent by the fifth year, the provision of youth concessional loans, the purchase of housing by 11 per cent, the payment of annual war veterans assistance by 9 per cent. In addition, the budget contains openly anti-social norms. Article 38 thus limits the use of benefits by teachers and doctors and by military and other categories of workers. With a slight increase in their wages, the Government is apparently depriving them of their benefits, believing that they have already improved their standard of living. This is all the more cynical in view of the rapid rise in prices. The faction of the Social Democratic Party has categorically opposed such a situation. [[Joint]] We have made proposals to reduce costs for the Secretariat of the President, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of Internal Affairs and others. At the same time, increasing them to social protection for Chernobyl, to build housing for soldiers, disabled persons, to inform schools, to heal children, to purchase school buses and ambulances. We have also proposed the full implementation of the Children of War Act. Unfortunately, we have not found support for the Committee on Budgets in this regard, and our proposals to the Committee have decided to send the Government for consideration. But according to Kabina's priorities, the answer is obvious. The faction of the Social Democratic Party reiterates the need for a serious budget review in order to bring it to a realistic testimonial. [[United Nations High Commissioner]] We demand an honest relationship of power with the people in terms of budgeting. The political forces that formed this Government should share responsibility and vote in favour of this shameful budget, which is already in the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u110	Viktor Turmanov, faction of “Ukraine”. Prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Draft budget for 2006 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council in violation of the provisions of the Trade Unions Act and the General Agreement on the Obligation to submit laws relating to social economic relations, taking into account proposals by trade unions. In implementing their powers, trade unions had sent their proposals to the Government in advance to the Committee on Budgets, and had suggested that joint consultations should be held on the social cluster. However, I would like to emphasize that for the first time in many years of independence, the Government has deviated from social dialogue by ignoring trade union proposals, particularly the minimum wage and minimum wage. The draft budget provided did not guarantee citizens'rights to an adequate standard of living and did not meet the principles and objectives of the declared social policy. Therefore, today, the walls of the Supreme Council are once again under the protest pressure of trade unions against the adoption of a budget based on a effectively falsified, under-declared 170 million bracelets of subsistence, which does not take into account housing, education, health care. Minimum wages and social assistance are underestimated. The Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine has prepared a package of claims all fair and aimed at ensuring the legitimate constitutional rights of citizens. In particular, we need to establish a minimum wage for working persons from 1 January 2006 and 130 per cent of the subsistence minimum from 1 July 2006, taking into account the minimum wage. of a kind used in the manufacture of materials. After all, Ukraine has 43 seats among 46 European countries at the wage level. The Federation of Trade Unions requires effective State support to the basic sectors of the economy, especially coal, the APC. Increase the base of social payments, raise the salaries of budget workers, allocate housing for young people. The country's budget for 2006 has again been underbudgeted for coal industry, as in 2005, although this policy has already reduced its output by 2.5 tons this year. The Government's proposed level of budget for the coal mine for 2006 is 2 billion. below what is necessary. Moreover, $1 billion,400 million -- 50 per cent of the total funding of the industry -- is expected to be channelled from a special fund, for which I want to emphasize this year, the miners will be short 700 million. Therefore, the “Regions of Ukraine” faction will not vote in favour of the proposed budget on first reading and proposes to be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. For the coal industry, the draft budget is equivalent to its destruction. Therefore, more than a thousand miners are now under the walls of the Supreme Council, requiring the industry's budgetary funding in 2006 of 5.7 billion dollars. Grieves according to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u112	Please, Gregory Bondarenko, “Go, Ukraine!” Get ready for him, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, our faction is in solidarity with the faction of the People's Party, and this is our leader, Vladimir Litvina,'s position on the 2006 arrival from the State Budget to support the APC and social development of the village about 14 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. This is, by the way, a requirement for the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. And I want to emphasize, this is the principle of our position, and if we do not accept it, we people will not vote in favour of this budget. And the conclusions of the Parliament's Committee on Budgets will be supported and encouraged by everyone else. A few words about the budget as a whole. In the structure of the pietoma, the weight of development allocations, however, is overburdened by consumption costs. That's clear. With regard to the expenditure of ministries and departments, we have already raised this question more than once, and today I would like to stress that they have increased on average by 16 percent across the country. Among those who have this level above is above all, the same Cabinet of Ministers – 28, State Administration – 36, State Customs – 32, Miniust – 37, National Security Council – 52, Henprocurement – 47 and this list can be continued. I can tell you that at the average wage of a thousand and a half dollars in industry, the monthly salary in all these structures that I've called is between 2,000 and 4,000 and half. And with ministers and governors from 12,000 to 16,000, teachers and doctors receive cash. Such an unfair approach has not been found in any government in our country’s time of independence. A similar situation in the courts. Timoshenko’s government has increased the salaries of judges on several occasions. At the same time, the five secret decrees of the previous President on supplementary payments remained in force. As a result, the monthly monthly salary of individual judges may amount to some 50,000 dollars from the new year, as in the United States. I would like to support the conclusions of the budgetary committee on the repeal of these decrees, the requirement of the Cabinet of Ministers to arrange for the payment of the salaries of senior officials of states and authorities, as well as judges, and to provide funding on the tariff network of budget officials, doctors and teachers. Once again, I am addressing my colleagues, your colleagues, and I ask you to support the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. We need to do everything we can to prevent the adoption of the budget from allowing the state to manage the finances manually, to bring the project to mind, it's entirely possible, it's in our power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Alexander Blackwolf, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Prepare Sobolje's Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u115	Dear friends, obviously, from the way the various factions, the factions of the various factions have been made, and obviously, from the way the government listens to us, the fate of this, which is not, is correctly suggested to me, the fate of this budget is obviously resolved. And the culprits are probably, first of all, we're here with you, because in due course we've done a negative experiment, when a budget developed by one government, we've commissioned it to continue working on another government, that is, we probably should not have taken up this budget at our own time, and a budget developed by the government of Timoshenko should have been sent to work on the government of Yehanurov. Now we can't ask anyone but ourselves for what's going on. And it is clear that attempts by the budgetary committee to somehow save the budget process today will not find support. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement also joins. We also pay attention to the many shortcomings of the budget that we are considering, and we also point out that the proposals that have been processed and proposed by the budgetary committee on behalf of the entire Supreme Council do not account for any improvement in this budget. So this process is obviously going to have to start first. In fact, it has been emphasized many times that this is a systemless budget, that this is a budget that was developed without any major idea, does not matter what it is in nature – social, economic. But it was just an attempt to satisfy everyone a little bit, and it was also in the approach of the previous government to develop the budget, and in the approach of the budget committee. Obviously, the government of no country in the world would have been able to meet such needs, the budget of no country in the world, more Ukraine. We need to start over, first of all, by focusing on determining in the budget the next root interests of the Ukrainian nation. I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement will not vote in favour of this budget, even though none of its numerous proposals have been taken into account in the Committee's conclusions. So obviously, I'm also asking you to take my name off the draft budget, because I didn't vote for it, and more than that, at the time of the vote, I stepped out of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u116	Sergey Sobolev, faction of Reforms and Orders. Get ready for Leapini Kseniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, I would like to bring everyone back to the question that is being discussed in the Hall today. Today, the conference room discusses the approval of the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets, and that is the kind of vote that will take place. Because everyone's talking about the development budget, the food budget, whatever. So the attitude of our faction of the Reforms and Order party towards the conclusions we've come up with. In my opinion, the contradictions that exist in each of the conclusions -- I'd like to illustrate a few examples. On the one hand, the Committee on Budgets claims, and I absolutely agree with it, and the faction is the same as it can't be in the body of the budget to make changes to any legislative acts, including more legislative acts that regulate the tax system. But we open the conclusions of the Budget Committee. And I'll give you a dozen examples when the Budget Committee proposes to do the same, just in another article of other laws. I am listed in Article 72 of the Customs Code, and so on and so forth; 73/1, 113/5. And I can count this very long list. So, in my opinion, the conclusions that we're going to be preparing on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, and we're going to be preparing, obviously, not today, because today, I hope, there are no people who vote in favour of such conclusions in the session room that should have a clear reference to this norm. Secondly, what's the budget increase going to be? By increasing the budget deficit, how is it honestly proposed by the Budget Committee in its conclusions again? Well, then I have a question: you can increase the percentage, not as proposed, but by 2-3 percent, then, in addition, by the logic of the budget committee, you'll get another billion 10 that can be thrown into distribution and redistribution. We're about to be told by the next parliaments when we increase the budget deficit to the size proposed. Next item for conclusions. So anyway, we're reducing taxes next year, aren't we? Because you can talk about the budget, the budget, the development budget, but in our fraction, the best development budget is the budget, which is really going to predict a sharp reduction in the tax base. But again, not in the body of the budget, but in separate legislative acts that require all the legislation of Ukraine today, including the budget code. And the key question that's in this budget today is how to channel the key funds to local budgets. According to the faction, those targeted programs that are now fixed as targeted programs of central authorities and ministries should be clearly redistributed to local budgets. This is the only way out without increasing the budget deficit, not going back to the old tax base, which is to follow the key route: tax cuts, taxes are paid by everyone, but key forces should go for local self-government. That's why it's a freak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u118	Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u119	The faction “Our Ukraine” is convinced that Ukraine today clearly needs a growth budget. But what is the growth budget? First of all, it should be based on a reduction in tax burden. And we're convinced that, first of all, tax reduction should take place on the payroll fund. Secondly, this budget should be in line with the principles of balanced budgetary policy, namely the limitation of budgetary deficits. We see that the government has offered some priorities and we see that it has even offered a certain increase in funding, including the agricultural sector, has offered certain directions and programs to target, aircraft building, road construction, coal industry, housing and utilities. Of course, we are also not entirely satisfied with the government's budget, but we are convinced that the populist effort to increase funding for certain areas, the economic sector leads to only one; the budget will be completely balanced. And a balanced budget and no reduction in tax burden will only lead to one, we'll just get empty promises. We will not receive real money that can meet social standards and social obligations. And that means we're just misleading society. Does Ukraine Need a Budget? It is absolutely necessary, but we have time and opportunity to work on it, based on real, balanced motivations, to lay the foundation for reducing tax burden, to lay the foundation for real development priorities that will lead to appropriate other areas of economic growth. And only on the basis of economic growth will we get social commitments. Should we follow the principle of haste? We followed him earlier this year. Did this work out for us? No, it didn't. The principle of politics to divide and distribute everything that's not earned by the Ukrainian economy, well, it doesn't lead to success, it's a dead end. I'm just convinced that Parliament is able to work out a regulation, to work on it from a realistic and balanced perspective, and to come up with a better model of government budget than the government did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u120	Yes, dear colleagues, we will now give the floor to the committee representatives, but listen, please listen to me carefully. But everyone, but since each national deputy is a member of a committee, you go and write that you are from a committee. So we will do what is right. I will now give the floor to the committee heads, and those who have signed up from the committees, I ask the secretariat, please, that the person who signed up from the committee should show that this committee manager has authorized him to speak from the committee. Because once again, you're all members of the committee and each of you can sign up for being on the committee. Please don't worry. So Jaroslav Suhi, the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy. Get ready for John Tomich. And those who have signed up from the committees, please confirm that the committees have entrusted you with speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The 2006 budget, compared to 2003-2005, is a step backwards in the dynamics of job motivation, social protection and a decisive step towards poverty. Unfortunately, most of the proposals made by the Committee on Social Policy are not included in the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. I'm sorry. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour notes, therefore, that the size of the State social security guarantees for the 2006 budget does not correspond to the level established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. First. Establishing a minimum subsistence level of 110 bracelets for working and 155 bracelets for disabled people does not correspond to the level of inflation and the poverty line of today’s 325 bracelets and the poverty margin of 260 dollars. The other one. We cannot agree with the proposed amount of one - time assistance at the birth of a child. Such assistance should amount to a sum of 22.6 times the child’s minimum of living, which should amount to 9,000,446 dollars in December 2006. Otherwise, it is a gross violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Third. The committee denies the government’s attempts to suspend a number of articles of the Law on State Aid for Families with Children. The help of uninsured caregivers at the age of 3 should amount to about 200 dollars. Instead, the government is offering a much lower amount and depending on the average monthly total income of the family. We remind the government, child care is a partial compensation for loss of income and cannot depend on the total income of the family. Four. The draft budget is not able to fill the poverty strategy with real meaning. There is no provision for social protection for homeless citizens, for the fight against childlessness, for the prevention of social orphans. Fifth. A committee against the elimination of land-based benefits for children's sanatoriums and health facilities. Six. We will never agree with the government’s suspension of certain articles of the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Seven. As soon as possible, we will strongly deny attempts to manage, intervene and use social security funds by the government. Such shameful practices have already created many problems for society in 2005. Eight. We do not agree with the unwarranted, ineffective offer of Kabmin, which grossly violates legislation, to set low subsistence minimum and minimum wage. Last one. The government does not provide specific calculations for the introduction of a single tariff network in the cost of budgeting; some here, from this rostrum, call this budget a “food budget”. That's not true, I firmly deny it. It's not a budget for eating, it's a budget for malnutrition and a severe blow to strengthening motivation for working in Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u122	John Tomic, Committee on Agro-Industry Policy. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. 2005 will be one of the most difficult years in history for Ukrainian agriculture. This is not only evidence of the socio-economic situation in the village, but evidence of a volatile situation in the grain market, in the meat market, in the sugar market, which has been changing this year. Is that the answer, the 2006 budget, to these shameful phenomena for the Ukrainian? Far from it. The 2006 budget is the same articles, which were rewritten from the 2005 budget with small deviations, which, for more than half a century, in no European country to which we are going, does not have such support for our own peasant. Based on this, the existing legislative base that is adopted in this Supreme Council Hall and the Budget Resolution is perfectly clear following this direction 10 percent is the minimum figure for solving the most painful problems in the village -- 14 billion. But, my friends, this is an application, not a solution, unless the ideologies of fiscal policy have changed, even 15 billion or more will answer these problems that have accumulated in the Ukrainian village for decades. So five steps is offered by the stability committee. First. Stabilization of the basic animal sector is a direct support in accordance with legislation of 3.7 billion. This is stabilised according to the law on State support and the market for grain, grain, and sugar in the sum of 2 billion dollars. Third. This is financial support under the Agricultural Engineering Act - 577 billion dollars - for technological policy development. Fourth. The development of agrarian market infrastructure and advisory services. Much of the resources that will be directed without solving this direction will never provide a perspective. And the fifth. It's not just production, it's living in rural areas, it's financial support for development, it's social development in the village, and it's compensation that's not done for seven years, it's for those farmers who spent money on social finance. As a result, only under such conditions can the committee support and in this case the committee does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u124	Please, Peter Cibenko, Committee on Veterans, Disabled Persons. Prepare Stanislav Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons considered the State Budget project very carefully. I'd like to say that we've been looking at it as clearly as possible. Three Deputy Ministers of Labour and Social Policy took part in the committee's meeting, the head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, the Crisprotez, and a number of disabled organizations. The committee has accepted. He made a number of comments to the State Budget project and stated the following. That his representatives are willing to vote in favour of this draft State budget only if at least most of the Committee's most fundamental observations are taken into account. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these observations are not taken into account. I would like to ask a number of rhetorical questions and answer them, in fact, to talk about our position on this issue. How can we vote in favour of a draft State budget that stops several dozen of the rules of the first social orientation? Secondly, how can we vote in favour of the State Budget project, which reduces by one and a half percent of the budget of the Pension Fund, even though there are still 3 billion in undeclared terms. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.? True Minister of Finance, Mr. Pinzenic claims it's not a deficit, it's a cash gap. You know, I'd like to put it this way: "Danilo didn't die, she strangled so badly"; for retirees, it's the same thing. Third, how can we vote in the 60th year of the Victory over Fascism, in a year declared by a year of veterans for stopping a whole series of rules of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection? And those changes that didn't even make previous government budgets. How can I vote in favour of a criminal, I would like to stress this separately, the idea of halting the rules of the law on social protection of children of war? But here I'd like to say separately, look, I have this law in my hands on one side, and on the other hand, how many documents do I have to give to keep this status? To this list, I would like to add just the fingerprints of each member of the family in order to gain the status of a war child. And the last thing I'm surprised is that all the factions, including the factions represented in the government, come out and criticize the State Budget project. I'm sorry, so who brought it in? Perhaps it is time to call off those who make similar draft laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u126	Stanislaw Gurenko, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, has the floor. Here are two from the Committee of Jurov and Matvienkov. Who's it gonna be? Matvienkov. Prepare Matviyenko. Dear friends! Identify yourself as one of the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting was unable to determine the support of the 2006 State Budget project for one single, but in my opinion it is quite a valid reason that the honourable Valentin Simonenko was already talking about here today. There is no economic policy in Ukraine, and I would say socio-economic policy. All the governments, not excluding the government that is boasting here from this rostrum, Timoshenko’s government, have gone away from it, avoided it, excused it as much as possible. The project that was submitted to the Supreme Council under the heading that this is a project of the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2006, the government had to call it off, because this is a project, this document is an example of non-professionality, of irresponsibility, and I want to stress in particular, this is the result of a policy where socio-economic policies have been replaced by demagogic slogans. And that comes out today, at least from what official data we have on the implementation of the 2005 budget. With more than 60 billion coming into the State budget, 23 billion were made directly by citizens of our country. Just think about it through two taxes: this is a tax on the income of natural persons and on the VAT they pay in the food system in the trading system. If this continues, just a third of what the government is advertising the social cost of the budget will pay off our poor citizens. And if you take the fact that today 18 percent of all social income has already absorbed prices, it's exactly half of that 110, sorry, half of 110 million. will be paid directly, and another 20 billion, billions, not millions, will be paid for the price increase. So there's only going to be a fourth of that. And so the 20 billion that Minister Pinzenik is talking about doesn't even compensate for the price increase. The idea is that this project needs to go back to work, to substantive work, and at least to set clear priorities for Ukraine's economic development for 2006 and to put the programme first -- a strategy for overcoming poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u128	Yeah, who do we have here? Matvienko Sergei, please, the Committee of Industrial Policy. Next Yukhnovsky Igor, Science Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u129	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, we have long studied the proposed bill in the Industrial Policy Committee and have come to one conclusion: the budget is a mirror of the economy. No matter what we want, no real income, no spending part of the budget, no matter how much we share this short blanket, we would drag it out, we would drag it out, we wouldn't find the right. That's the first one. Second. Whatever we do today, no matter what we say today, without a clear strategy on gas, no matter what prices tomorrow our industry, the metal industry, the chemical industry, will have gas, we will have no clarity and stability, no confidence that we will have any kind of income. How can we build a strategy, how can we build an economy, if we don't know clearly why we should consider our own economy? What will result in self - worth? That's the first one. Second moment. We talk about the same thing every year. The budget code, which is currently in place, does not provide priority areas for the development of large industrial cities, such as Krivo Rog, Mariupol, Donetsk. Because these cities are in this situation: the better they work, the more they are seized every year, the worse it is for them. What's going on? City mayors are forced to go to industrial enterprises, have to go to businesses and ask: “Raise wages”. Reasonably, wages were unduly strained to compensate for the exemption. We're starting the inflation process right here. When are we going to figure that out and stop this mess? When will we allow our industrial cities to fill in the income part of the budget?Oh, my God! Mariupol, the Horn of Curve, is only twice the size of 40 million in this year's budget. How can they build their economies from what? Next moment. We are now defining this situation: instead of solving these problems today, the income part of the budget is being adjusted by such things as the price of the nadra, we are threefold increasing. Excuse me, how can I, once again, emphasize price policies if they cost three times the price? It's almost half a billion bracelets! What's the price that's going to be on the metal, on the bread, on the milk, on the butter, and so on and so forth, in the recalculation of all of this? Somebody read that? Has anyone seen these things? Compulsory sale of land under industrial facilities. What's that approach? Make sure you don't want to buy it. And who thought what amounts should be paid by the metal industry today? And who thought what amounts should go to Goki today? And the storage systems that work so far, how much money has to be invested here, and where does that money come from? Ecology. They went in a normal way, that is to say, practically take everything downtown, leave the regions with nothing — up to 10 percent. This solves the problem of environmental issues. If you'll excuse me, here are some specific examples where there were specific investments in environmental projects in major industrial cities! There's no one at all! Real estate tax. Let's face it: we're again making an extra pensioner tax. No one but them will faithfully carry out this tax. Well, we're gonna start picking up from the square metre again with this disadvantaged category? And what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u130	Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky, please, Committee of Education. Get ready. Yes, Oneschuk was, I saw, the head doesn't mind? First Deputy, please. And then I ask you to confirm that you have the commission of the committees. Otherwise I won't give anyone a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! In Ukraine, financial pits arise spontaneously, and we must put them out in the fire. It was a metallurgy, it was a coal industry, it was a agriculture, it was now a pension. As an example, I want to say that 6.1 million rural pensioners got pies and now get a pension of 332 dollars a month, that's 27 billion money going to rural pensioners per year. This money has to go, but with us we have to put some order in, they have to work. All right. We will not have all the new needs in the future, the only thing that we demand from the village's point of view is that our assistance should be completely targeted to the host, precisely to the name to which the money is to come. I would like to address the honourable Mr. President, Mr. President of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister. Ukraine has the only way out. Ukraine is going to a knowledge society. Ukraine has a specific job to do to create a middle class in the state. It's about the first question. Science and education are the most important areas of government, particularly fiscal policy. The minimum additional allocation from the education and science budget is to be 500 million dollars. So in particular, it's specific. The central problem is the modernization of scientific institutions, laboratories, national universities and the National Academy of Sciences. At national universities, it is necessary to allocate 40 million dollars a year and give the exact address and where it should be directed. The creation of a lab of genetic and cellular biotechnology for 22 million dollars is a central problem both in agriculture and in the chemical industry, and in fundamental science, and from this problem. We've got to get out of here. In particular, the exemption from tax on added value and import duties. These are budgetary systems and they can no longer have any specific VAT compensation and therefore its selection is not normal. In addition, we have allocated 10 million dollars to conduct an academic fibre optic network. Now it's made, it's supposed to be provided with suitable devices, which require 3 million dollars and so on and so forth. The Science and Education Committee made its proposals, we're willing to work closely with the government, we think that the work of the Budget Committee on the needs of education and science was unsatisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u132	Yes, please, Mikola Oneichuk, Legal Political Committee. Get ready, Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u133	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, honorable judges. First of all, I want to comply with Igor Rafailovich's request, and one of the reporters forgot his pen, and notice that she's here on the stand. Dear colleagues, unlike previous speakers who are naturally and this has already become traditional when it comes to budget discussions, I would like to say that with regard to the financing of the judiciary, the government in the current year, in the following year, there are proposals for real disruptions from the point of view of court security, at least of the judges, primarily financial maintenance. Just note that for the first time in many years, Ukraine has spent more than 1.5 billion dollars on obtaining judicial authority. Naturally, that's not enough, because I'm going to be a little late on this too, and at the same time, we should give due consideration to the fact that this is a very important step taken by the Government, and I hope that the trend towards proper funding of the judiciary will be maintained in the coming years. What was the solution? Dear friends, first of all, it is worth noting that two weeks later, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was forced to postpone for two years the implementation of an important constitutional requirement for the full establishment of trials. And the two reasons why this decision was actually made are the lack of adequate halls, sufficient courtrooms to hold court hearings, and the lack of funds to obtain proper technical equipment. And I really wanted the government to take into account in the proposals that will come from today and come from the budget committee that we would not be able to implement this constitutional provision until the necessary assimilations are foreseen for the construction, reconstruction or building of the halls for the holding of the sessions. It's not going to get them today. The second problem is that it refers to paying for the work of those whom we call the staff of the court. This year's decision has really been made and it has already been put into the state budget for raising salaries for judges, especially for judges of local courts, but large court staff, particularly assistant judges, secretaries of judicial meetings who have a higher legal education, but in fact remain at an extremely low level of pay. And it's necessary for the government under all circumstances, Victor Mikhailovich, I ask you to pay attention for a second, under all conditions, to find the costs, at least 30 million extra, in order to raise the wages of this very category of court employees, because they are essentially at the level of the salaries of the court. In general, the draft budget on these issues can be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u134	Yes, Sergey Wizko of the Defence Committee. Get Bronjikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u135	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I want to stop your weight on some of the cost-effective articles of the budget on the strategically important issue of the energy security of our state. At the end of the eighth decade, Ukraine also joins five leaders in the consumption of gas after the US, Japan, Russia, and Germany. If Poland consumes 71 cubic metres of gas per thousand dollars of gross domestic product, Hungary 176, Germany 42, Ukraine is the world leader at these rates. Our consumption is over 1,400 cubic meters per 1,000 dollars of GDP, more than in neighbouring countries, and the steady trend towards reducing this figure has not been seen in the last decade. At the same time, as we well know, the world is inevitably nearing the exhaustion of its supply of hydrocarbons. Despite the most optimistic statement made by the Russian fuel-energy complex, in 60-70 years the world's gas reserves will be fully exhausted, and centuries from now, oil deposits will not run out in Iran alone. So the price of traditional energy is going to go up, and this situation is forcing all developed countries to pay attention to non-traditional energy sources and to reduce energy consumption. What is the state of affairs in developing non-traditional sources and reducing the energy efficiency of the economy in Ukraine? The analysis of the draft budget shows that there is not one among hundreds of government programs that would be devoted solely to this topic. There are several budget programs, including the construction of wind power plants, small hydropower plants, a biodegradable fuel plant with only 5,000 tons of fuel. Note, however, that these programs, like the use of coal methane, are not related to the most advanced technologies in the world — the use of solar batteries, bioenergy, hydropower, fuel elements, heat pumps, and so on. The budget programme for the development of the most important new technologies in the field of energy has funding of only 2.8 million dollars. But it is not clear whether it is related to the names of the higher directions. So we haven't even reached the level of implementation of pilot projects in a direction that has been developing in the world for decades. For example, the US and the EU plan to provide energy by 2020-2025 at the expense of alternative, environmentally sound renewable energy sources 15-25 of their energy use. So I would like to propose to the government, first of all, to increase funding for the development of new technologies in energy so that a number of pilot projects can be implemented in the next year. Secondly, to develop a real energy efficiency reduction program in the economy that would reduce gas consumption by just a third over time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u136	Thank you. But I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, those who speak on behalf of the committees, to talk about the problems that the committee is dealing with, not to explain their own vision of what they want to say. Please, Bronnikov Vladimir of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! You have no idea that there are two governments in our country at the same time? One is the official one headed by Prime Minister Ehanurov and one is not the official one headed by Mr. Pinzenik. If the government is developing a recovery strategy, if the government has, in principle, stopped saying that it has received a terrible legacy, and Mr. Pinzenik is still under the impression that he has received, although I think he knows how he assessed the activities of that government of our President. If the Government of Ehanurov, and he ended up in committee yesterday, to present the programme “Political Energy Complex Strategy”. This is the basis for the vitality of our children, the basis for the economy, taking into account all the threats that exist in the world, Mr. Pinzenik has offered us a budget that cuts our future apart. He leaves no chance for our children, our economy, to live in normal energy, and there is no chance for Ukraine to survive in this world, which is fighting including weapons, as is the case in Iraq for energy resources. The energy strategy is completely disregarded, and the energy conservation issues mentioned by the previous speaker are the issues of addressing the energy recovery and financial recovery issues adopted in. and the relevant laws have been adopted. And the second question that I would like to point out. There was no speaker in Maidan, an orange speaker who did not swear that he would solve the problem of the Chernobyl disaster liquidators. That he will solve the problem of people who have been acutely ill. And it's a government that speaks of social problems. The Pinzenic government, he's going to bring the country down. And I ask the President and the Committee to believe that we should think about whether we are making a country's development strategy or whether we are adopting this budget will not work in the middle. Therefore, the budget and this is said by the Party of the Regions, this said the Committee, should be returned to the Government of Ehanurov and possibly to Pinzenika.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Just a little clarification, I remind you that we now have the government of Yehanurov, for which 289 national deputies voted. Please, Rephat Chubarov, Human Rights Committee. Get ready, Tkalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Respect for human rights is one of the criteria for assessing the country in both political and economic terms. The next committee raises questions about the introduction of a separate chapter in the National Budget of Ukraine on human rights. Taking into account the socio-political importance of the proposed proposal and considering that such a section is not budgeted by the structure of the budget system, the committee reiterates its request to consider the possibility of introducing such a section, let it not in this budget, but in the following it is mandatory. Now, on the assessment of financial security in the State Budget project, the issues that the committee is looking after. The problem remains the financing of refugee assistance programmes and the creation and maintenance of sites for illegal migrants, and the information system, and the analysis of migration flows. It is necessary to complete the work by reconstructing the temporary placement of refugees in Yagotin, Zacarpathian, and Odés. Additional capital investment is also needed for a pilot project to connect to the central level of the administration of migration services in Odessa, Zakarpatski, Chernigiv, Volinski, Kharkiv. Steps must be taken to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree of 17 November 2004 on the approval of programmes to equip people from abroad who are returning to Ukraine for the period until 2010. In the committee, very carefully analyzed expenses to be devoted to the provision of Crimea Tatars and persons of other nationalities who have returned to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In our proposals, we have drawn the attention of the government to the need to increase this article to the size of the resettlement and furniture program, namely, to 90 million dollars. By the way, the government of Ukraine is unwarrantedly delaying the approval of the programme until 2010. In addition, the committee supports the proposal of the Crimean Autonomy Council of Ministers to predict the Crimea of 21 million dollars of subsidies, which should also be provided for returnees in the Crimean budget. Since 2005, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine has been the chief authority of the budget program for establishing contacts with Ukrainians who live outside Ukraine. Regrettably, the funds under this scheme and special funds are earmarked only for consumption costs. All of this makes it necessary for the development costs to be foreseen in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2006 to anticipate the development costs of the Ukrainian diaspora. There was no reflection in Ukraine’s National Budget project on the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Measures to Strengthen State Support for Former Political Prisoners, Repressed Persons, and Their Public Organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u140	Thank you. Tkalenko Alexander, Committee of Organ Crime, Legislative Security. Get ready for Kirichenko Ludmila.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Our committee is also concerned about the development of the 2006 budget, in particular with the financing of law enforcement agencies, because these are budgetary organizations and, as we know, today, especially in the village in the status of district inspectors, there are very few people working and, more importantly, they cover a few population centres and are completely untenable to transport. Internal affairs are usually financed only in part of the wage. The situation, in our view, needs to be categorized, since the continuation of such a situation will not provide the basis and basis for combating corruption and organized crime. We are also concerned about the efforts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to bring this ministry out of parliamentary control, as was the case yesterday in the consideration of the relevant bill submitted by the old Cabinet of Ministers. Next. We welcome the fact that Parliament is finally considering the structure and totality of the Ukrainian Security Service, that the financing of this organization will be more transparent and light, but in this case we need to solve one more question, because the service, the structure has been put out of external intelligence without the necessary material and human resources. And for the next year, there may be problems with funding for both this structure and the entire service, which is to be dealt with radically. And the next. We think that the government and the budget committee need to pay attention and develop a new philosophy about the most criminalized and most closed tax, where basic economic crimes are committed, is a tax on added value. Today, Ukraine is already on record for VAT returns. The figure amounted to nine hundred and eight billion dollars. To whom are these costs reimbursed? The way in which they are compensated remains a mystery. We think that's one of the main points that we need to look at with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we have, you see, taken the time. What are we going to do? But not all the committee representatives have said so yet. The people are a long way from here. Yeah, then let's go on to about 1:30. Please, Ludmila Kirichenko of the Privatization Control Commission. Prepare John the Rabbit. I repeat, you have a decision from the commission that says you have to speak from the commission. If you don't want to speak, please, John the Rabbit. That's a whole different question. Don't make me worry, women, please. John the Rabbit. And I'd like you to decide. And I'm asking you to identify other committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u143	John Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, from the Committee on Economic Policy. Dear National Deputies! In the conclusions of the committee and in the draft budget, it would be good to reflect the environmental policy of our country. But if you analyze both the conclusions and analyze the first. First project, then we don't find anything. For example. This is about pollution congregations. We're going to propose to raise these congregations, and that's going to give us a little bit more to get to the revenue side of the budget, so at least we can do it two times. However, it is done that only 2.8 times these congregations are increasing, and you are well aware of the environmental situation today. And there's no differentiation before that. So we would like this to be taken into account. The other one. It's the cost of using natural resources. We always write in legislation that this is used to neutralize pollution, restore natural resources and so on. This is how our former legislation guides us. Once again, we have this old practice where this money goes to the general part of the State Budget, and so it's used for whatever you want -- not these things. After all, you could go in the legislative direction and solve a lot of environmental programs. Third. A state housing program for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. This year, 50 million dollars were planned for the next year, 50 million dollars for the next year. So we're going to be doing this program for 20 or 30 years, and we could do it in a year, and we could forget it, and we'd start another program. So no one wants to solve problems in general, but they just want to stretch out for years and torture people and torture us. The real amount of funding for the Chernobyl program is actually reduced, although in absolute terms they are increased. But given fate, we'll see that we do. Now another issue is the financing of state support for the execution of works after the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES. You need another 220 million dollars as a minimum, and you don't. All of it. I'd like to give the floor to Chernowitz. So please consider the suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u144	I've got 40 seconds. Dear Chairman, and the people's deputies, and those who listen to us. Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. I would like to say that the main problem of Ukraine's budget, so that all people will know, remains a single problem: the budget, which includes further enrichment by officials and the impoverishment of ordinary people, and further purchase of Mercedes and all the relevant attributes, and any crap that was inherent only in the communist regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u145	Welcome from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u146	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. A fast, socialist faction, a committee in foreign affairs. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, you know everyone who works there, is a budget organization that is totally dependent on how the budget is drawn up. And you know that some of the possibilities of using consular services were before visas were cancelled, especially in Western Europe. And to date, you know that the 30 million, the billions that have always come from consular services, are not available today, so you know that the bill has always provided that 10% of the funds received for consular action outside Ukraine, which will come to the state budget special fund, are to make payments related to the functioning of the consular offices of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of Ukraine. And for today, this bill, which is being considered, it doesn't predict how this money will be redistributed, because it's already 10% of how the consular money for consular services is coming, it's not going to get the fine, and it's not going to get diplomatic institutions. So our committee, looking at the bill, admitted that there was a need for a redistribution, because because of the fact that tourists came to the country and their flow increased, of course, that the progress towards the budget was increasing, and that would require redistribution of what was involved in consular institutions. That's the first one. The other one. Do you know that Ukraine today has a chronic debt to international institutions? And unfortunately, if we look at the bill, this debt over the years is not yet foreseen here in this bill. For example, if you go to the NPA, you're told that there's no funding for representation, no funding for other possibilities. So let's define here, or we'll give up money to secure the functioning of our institutions abroad, including I mean, the representation of the NPA of the CIS, or let's give up completely so that we don't go there all the time and we don't bother you. And this is one of the important opportunities that we have today, because we want to join the WTO all the time, and if we don't anticipate this money, we will be despised there, and the very existence of Ukraine there will not be useful and effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u147	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u148	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The state budget for the following year should be a development budget, and what is behind the fine and encouraging words, as always populism. The social orientation of the budget is reflected only in the further increase in minimum wages and pensions and the increase in the subsistence minimum. But the way this will be done, most of all, it's another promise. From the first page of this document to the last page of this document, figures and figures are written everywhere. For example, how can a steadily falling GDP rate that does not exceed 4 percent this year in the next case of a deep economic crisis? And as for inflation, the figure is famous and impressive. Because not so long ago, we heard about the long-described increase in pensions to 332 dollars, which for many people was still on paper, because there was no money in Kabmin, and so a long list of categories of pensioners that did not belong. This should be the case next year. In fact, this document takes due note of the problem of the village and the development of an agri-industrial complex, which is unacceptable. So we can confidently assume that the social fabric of the new budget is either eaten by inflation or likely to remain on paper. It just doesn't have all the projections necessary to ensure economic growth and sustainable economic development. The Communist faction has repeatedly made proposals for the formation of the State Budget, but it is clear that they are not included. And these are proposals from the people, for example, that I made a personal proposal at the request of the inhabitants of Malovski, Alexandria, to include the cost of gasification in the budget. The same is true of the Givoron and Golovanin regions of Kirovograd. But on what grounds these proposals are not taken into account, because they're not my personal, they're for the people, in general, for the state. Such a government approach to budgeting does not allow us Communists to vote for it. And once again, it shows that the government doesn't know the state of affairs in the economy at all, and it only mentions the people in the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u149	I'm going to give Vasil Ivanovich a word right now, so far, Vasil Ivanovich. Once again, dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to the committee leaders for the following. If someone writes that he is speaking from a committee, please make it a committee decision to present the committee’s point of view. Because each of you is a member of a committee and he writes that he's from a committee. Today we will make some concessions, but for the next, please let it be the committee's opinion, and no, it will be on the general line. So, as a sign of respect for culture, I'll take the floor after Nadraga, the Silent, from the Committee on Culture. Please, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u150	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, we have a draft regulation drawn up by the members of the Committee on Budgets. Our colleagues have worked hard enough on it, and I think that if we delete the second paragraph, we will vote on the remaining two, everything will be fine. And I think this is a normal legislative process. In general, I would like to say the next thing in the time remaining. My dears and radio listeners and colleagues. The problem is as follows. I'll give you a few figures, a consolidated budget for 2006 is projected at 159 billion dollars in expenditure, a deficit of 9.8 billion grivens, a government budget of 128 billion grivens, and I have the only question. Please tell me by drawing such large numbers that these figures are worth, what will be the result of our citizen, the average citizen, whom we love to discuss with you so much and for so long. I have to say that, on a large scale, both those figures and figures last year, and if nothing changes, the new figures for the 2007 budget are not changing either. Why? Because I'm going to let myself say that as long as we don't have a change in the ideology of state budgeting, which is what the head of the account room was talking about, his first thesis was. We're not changing the idea of budgeting, so we're drawing large, astronomical figures with you in the budget. On the other hand, we're talking about some small ones. I'm not afraid of that word. Speaking of the person who gets something from the budget, whether he's working, whether he's disabled, unemployed, retired and all the others, whom, I repeat, we like to call you average citizens. I therefore believe that we must change the ideology of budgeting, we must move away from understanding that our budget is based on minimum pensions, minimum benefits, minimum wages and all that is called minimum. The ideologies of the budget should be based on the ideology of the social standard, what the normal civilized world does. The social standard should take into account the real human needs of any worker, student, pensioner, unemployed person, sick person. And then it'll make it easier for us to understand what we should do? How much money does it take for the local budget to go to hospitals and schools, how much money does it take to give to the pension fund and everything else? Therefore, until we move on to the ideology of social standards as the fundamental principle of budgeting, we will not change anything. We're going to drown in the numbers I've given, and they're going to be here again and again. We will talk about anything, but we will not get any real improvement in the lives of our people. In conclusion, I would like to say again: very often recently, social standards are spoken of, it is time to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u151	Paul Mokchan, Committee on Culture. Prepare Michael Loboda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u152	Paul Mokchan, Ukrainian National Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Every time I go out during the discussion of the most important document that we live by, I ask you one request: let's not just live with the pressing problems that are today, not the only bread. The question of culture is fundamental, the most important. We seem to have convinced each other that both coal and coal are needed. Culture is the basic value, without it nothing will happen, no change in the state. See how much Russia spends on library work, museum work, Russian language development, Russian cinematographers, and Russian books. I appeal to you because, look at this budget. We're actually folding all these areas. Not for theatrical activity, not for library work, not for our own cinematography! It's a meager cost. If we don't do that, there's the new appointed Culture Minister Igor Lichov, and he can say what's the state of the museum business in Ukraine. If there's nothing to keep an eye on, if there's no more practice in the world, one-quarter of the pay for a librarian. That's what's left of the enthusiasts. The Ukrainian National Party is consistent in its harassment. We will vote in favour of the budget that will take care of the Ukrainian perspective. It's not like it's just about biomass living and fatting. Our oligarchs, the President said, except for one: they support Russian culture, Russian theaters, Russian films. Do you know who Victor Mikhailovich Pinchuk supports? Not in the Dnipropetrovska Theatre, but in support of Lencoma Theatre in Moscow, Vachtangova Theatre, other groups and others. Look where the funds go. If we don't realize it, we're people who aren't promising. Then why do we need this Ukraine. Then let's follow the Communist scheme: back to where the one who repeats the motto is calling out, the whole of Ukraine is bound: "God and Russia are with us." It's the password of Danny's, he's walking. Look, all of Ukraine today supports all that we allow here, taking away our spiritual resources. I think that we have to finally focus on the cultural sphere of the most important of all. And I think we're going to write it down because there are specific proposals from the committee that I would like you to support with the Ukrainian People's Party and our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u153	Please, Michael Loboda. After him, Lechchenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to a number of extremely acute financial health problems that need to be decided on for further development of the State Budget for the following year. The minimum need for health care to provide quality health care for the population is over 25 billion dollars in total, and the project is only 14.6 billion, 60 percent of the need for health care. The actual increase in health taxes on the general budget for 2006 is 2 billion dollars, of which 1.5 billion will go to higher wages in the current year. So for the development of the health sector itself, the government is proposing to allocate only 500 million more than this year. The volume of wages is almost 80 percent in total expenditure, and the volume of medical expenses, food, utilities, and energy, equipment, and other expenses is greatly reduced. This does not allow quality medical care in the full population of Ukraine to be provided with morally, physically, outdated equipment with limited medical supplies. In the project, the cost of introducing a single tariff grid of 3.5 billion No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This means that the average monthly salary for a medical worker next year will be 550 dollars. The Committee on Budgets understood the need for the medical sector and takes into account the suggestions made by the Committee regarding the need for additional expenses allocated to them. These proposals include the provision of additional expenditure for the implementation of legislation on the introduction of a single tariff grid of discharges and coefficients for medical workers in part of the calculation of health expenditure taken into account in the determination of budgetary transfers, and the application of an environmental coefficient to increase expenditure to regions. Provide for a separate component of the cost of providing medicines and free medical services to the benefit categories of citizens. Consider providing care to a child before reaching a three - year - old age minimum of no less than a minimum of living without taking into account the total income. Provide the only approach to social protection for teaching, science and teaching, medical, pharmaceutical workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u155	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Vladimir Leschenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I want to draw your attention to the fact that in a normal country, an economic and social development programme is first viewed as the basis for the budget, and then the draft budget is considered. Our country is normal, but power is not. For the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, the budget and development are trifles. The main thing for them is to rehabilitate UN-OPA heads, to step in against the people's desire to join NATO's warlord bloc, to move the elders into the World Trade Organization to put our economy on its knees in front of the world's economic monsters. And another criminal target of power. To deceive once again the people of Ukraine, to win elections to the Supreme Council and local councils, to usurp power in Ukraine, and to continue to abuse our people. Ukraine's bourgeois government is not making a budget project in every direction. The Communists insisted not to accept it by the Supreme Council. However, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litwin, did everything he could to counter his acceptance. Thus, responsibility for the further share of the draft budget was transferred to the Supreme Council. Ukraine's State Budget project, powdered on the budget committee, is also not appropriate anywhere. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine made specific proposals on where to get the money to fill the income part of the budget so that they could be directed towards economic development and social issues. These are the following suggestions. State monopoly on liquor, tobacco products. State monopoly on foreign trade. That's an extra 20 billion dollars coming in. Next. Reduce tax benefits for high-income private business entities. That's about 15 billion dollars. The introduction of a progressive tax on the income of the natural person -- who gets more -- the more he pays taxes, the more he pays taxes, is about 4 billion dollars. Entering a progressive property tax. Who has a huge amount of property to pay, 2 billion dollars. There were other suggestions. Of course, the current authority of nationalists and socialists, like the previous one, does not accept such proposals because the rich do not intend to share with the poor. I support everything that my colleagues have said to Hinzburg, Zibank, Gurenko, Puzakiv, Loboda, and I believe that such a mockery, which is called the 2006 project of the State Budget of Ukraine, cannot be accepted. Underneath the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are overwhelming demands for authority. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine supports these requirements and will always defend the interests of the common people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, I'm asking who wants to give their word, if he stands first, let him give it to anyone he wants, and he'll do it. We have the Rules, and we have all the levels. So you and I made an appointment at 1:30 p.m. We still have 16 national deputies. Valeriy Mihajlovich, don't come near the microphone. I'm not going to break the rules, no matter what. So, again, I repeat: 16 national MPs have been registered. You and I have covered up everything we could. I'd like to take another 10 minutes, but with the agreement of the hall. Who's in favour of continuing our debates for 10 minutes, please vote. [[13:32:53]] For-138 The factions, please. I can give you one minute, no more. The Communists are 55, the Ukrainian People's Party is 6, Our Ukraine is 6, Block Timoshenko is 18, Socialists is 16, Ukrainian People's Party is 8, Forward, Ukraine is 3, Social Democrats is 3, One Ukraine is 1, Reforms and Orders is 3, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, People's Movement and Postfactions are zero. Please, Suškevich, one minute. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I do not require any special attention. But I signed up today from three o’clock in the morning. So, Adam Ivanovich, it's not about what I'm specifically asking for, but it's about three million people with disabilities. And neither the budget nor the conclusions of the Budget Committee are up to me, not just me. The language goes today that for the first time no budget proposal is counted by disability, none! And I want to say. First: 60 years of the Great Homeland War -- outraged by the people with disabilities, offered them that cars would be provided for in the State Budget Act this year. None of those 243 million people were given a car. Deceptive! That's the first one. The other one. I want to say that today there is a category of people with disabilities who are generally in a terrible state without these cars — two disabled people in the family. I asked if there were two disabled people in the family to give them money for a car. Not counted. I demand that people with war and disabilities with two disabilities. families with two disabled persons in the family to make sure that funds are made available and that they are offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u159	Let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u160	That's the first question. Second question, sanatorium treatment. Dear colleagues, we have allocated, predicted 35 million. What is sanatorium treatment? We, even those with disabilities of war, did not see this coming again. Because all of this, these costs have to be spent solely on compensation. The journey will not be for anyone, nor for the disabled, nor for anyone. I suggest that the journeys are foreseen for at least half the people with disabilities of war in the year 60 of Victory. And secondly, disabled spinal cords, which are now virtually, without sanatorium treatment, die, read statistics, die in wheelchairs, with a broken spine. I asked for the same cost, no response. And third, most horrendous, honourable colleagues, I'm putting before you a thing that wasn't offered today for prosthetics. In the following year, 50% of the disabled who need this: prosthetics, wheelchairs, will lose them, the first in the history of Ukraine, 50%. Can we vote for it or not? Can we not count it or not? I suggest we send the budget back to the Supreme Council. It's not what we've been working on, it's not what we've been working on. It's not what we've been working on. We can't vote on it. And to vote in favour of supporting people today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u161	Yes, please, from the committee for three minutes is the closing statement, please, Ludmila Pavelna Suprun. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. And I want to draw attention to this: why is there such a situation in this room today that all factions are critical against the budget, it's absolutely in line with the factions' position, and that's in line with the budget committee's position. This situation, honourable colleagues, was that when the budget was presented, there was virtually no government member in this room. And they have not been able to get to know the MPs in the first phase of this document. At the personal request of both the Prime Minister and the President, we have accepted this document with you for consideration in the Hall, hoping that it will be further worked out in keeping with our demands. All your suggestions are in the tables. We've counted a lot of them. Part of the offer is rejected. If we do not now accept our conclusions and proposals on budget assessment, budget estimates, then we will have to follow the table of rejected amendments. Believe me, we rejected them not because we don't like them, but because they contain standards that are not the norms of the budget code. But this is actually a guide for the government to do to get out of the stalemate in legislation. This is also the amendment to the tax laws, and this is the amendment to pension legislation, which is the mandatory introduction for the next year of the law on children of war, which is the amendment to the Budget Code for the financing of extra-primary and pre-primary education. So it's not the norm of this law, but it's the right position, and we're going to insist. That is why we demand that the government make a separate law, which applies to tax and other legislation. I'm asking us to pay attention to the following. We can agree with the proposals of MP factions and groups. They're perfectly accurate in your written form, in your positions, even in your position to remove the 122nd point, where it's about taxation. It's the same one that was bugged by Homutinik. And we suggest that we consider the ruling proposed by the committee, which will consist of one item, to endorse the conclusions and proposals of the budgetary committee as the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council. And thus give a clear position to the Supreme Council that we do not consider this document to be in conformity with the Code and that we demand it to be brought into line with budgetary legislation and the Budget Resolution. It's the only way out of this situation today. If the government fails to carry out our orders and does not bring the law into line, then we have the opportunity to demand it, in principle, all the way to resign the government. Under these conditions, I propose that we vote and support our decision in the first paragraph. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u163	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, we'll sum it up. First of all, I'd like us to speak from the rostrum, everyone has the right to say what he thinks and what he wants, and that's what we've been delegated, the national constituencies, our constituents. But anyway, don't get caught. I can't agree so, I'm probably the absolute majority of those who are in this room that the Head stretched out as it should. The Supreme Council voted in favour of this decision. One wish of the chairman, you know, little, and you don't have to do it. The Supreme Council voted. Another decision could have been, but you understand the conditions under which all of this happened. And I would like to remind you that it's not the first time, but it is now particularly obvious that they want to make Parliament guilty, as always. And it's all about us being guilty of that process. Don't vote, because the Chairman's right to sum it up, and I'm cheating on them. Swing your heads, hands, fingers, feet is your right. My right is to sum it up. Second, we're in line for the tenth time, and for the hundredth time, we're talking about what we've created in the first place. It is highly praised that many have put into the budget process. But once again you're convinced that we've created the Budget Code. We wrote it so that now let me know what happens if we don't make any decisions? Please tell the creators of the Budget Code, if no decision is taken at this time, what is next? Where does the budget remain, either in the Supreme Council or in the Cabinet of Ministers? Unfortunately, there are no answers in the 41st article of the Budget Code, so it's written. So let's move on. We will now, as the chairman of the committee said, do as the Budget Code states. And the Budget Code provides us with such alternatives that we have to accept the conclusions of the Budget Committee, if these conclusions are not accepted by the Budget Committee, then we go to an article vote, just one right, Ludmila Pavlovna, to an article vote, not just that which is rejected, but to an article vote of all proposals and those that are supported, so explains the Budget Code. We're going to vote on these proposals, and then, I don't know what's going to happen. Because the Budget Code doesn't explain to us that if we don't take these proposals, we won't make any decisions, as they say on the move, because, unfortunately, the Budget Code doesn't apply. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for a profile committee, the draft decree of 8000 00-P on the approval of conclusions and proposals for the draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget for 2006. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that a proposal has been made from the committee, there are now three points from the committee that have been suggested practically what the Budget Code requires us to vote on only the first paragraph. Just the first item, on the approval of the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee. Do you understand? Then I put to the vote this proposal, a draft ruling from a single first paragraph. Please vote. [[13:44:03]] For-179 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 4, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 43, Social Party - 25, Block Timoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, "Go, Ukraine!" - 18, Social Democrats, "One Ukraine", "Reforms and Orders" - 0, Industrial and Business Party - 13, People's Movement of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 16. Please sign up, five minutes. Five minutes, please, Shulga, followed by Suhi Yaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u164	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u165	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. The honourable colleagues who showed the results of the vote that we have just voted on have shown that Ukraine's State budget does not need the government to manage the country and budget flows manually, especially in view of future parliamentary elections. So today we have only one way out of this situation, Adam Ivanovich, and I am presenting it as an offer. To give the commission of a committee that takes into account today’s discussion, to return to its conclusions and to take these conclusions to the vote on February 1. Thank you. On November 1st, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u166	The first of February, just what year. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, follow him Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u167	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye The regions of Ukraine. Please pass the word to the national deputy Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u168	Vitalia Hometics microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I think the Supreme Council has taken the right step by drawing these conclusions, because in these proposals, first of all, there is an additional tax burden on the proposal to introduce a new project, a new tax, and even the small positive steps proposed by the government, after reducing the workload on the pay fund by 2 percent and other things, were simply rejected. If the government works with committees and factions at a different level, even if there are meetings with parliamentarians, there will be Freg_00428*001*093&lt;13:46: 52&gt; To listen to the MPs' opinion, I think the next time the Supreme Council can adopt this law, but it needs to be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u170	Boris Bespali. After him, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u171	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". I would like to make it clear to our distinguished television audiences and audiences that the Supreme Council has now rejected. She rejected the resolution from one point. I quote: “The Government Budget 2006 project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is considered unacceptable in view of the constitutional principles of local self-government. ” Of course, she did what she did right because there is no suggestion of what to do next. There's just another attempt to discredit the government and not offer anything. From Thank you for rejecting the Supreme Council. And I ask you very much, Adam Ivanovich, not to go back to the vote, because I understand that you have opened the debate solely to try to stretch this groundless decision. I'm joining in, and our faction is joining in, by the way, with the proposal of the previous speaker, which is absolutely clear that under the Budget Code, now the government, together with the budget committee and other deputies, should continue to work on the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u172	Boris Yakovich. Ludmila Pavlovno, do not disturb him. Boris Yakovich, I am very sorry to correct you because you are a very experienced parliamentarian. I don't know what you voted for, I voted for the 8,000-p bill, which contains the first paragraph, which says, "Approving the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee." This is what the Budget Code requires of us. And so please don't mislead people, I don't know what they voted for, it's your business. Please, Olena Bondarenko. She's got Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u173	Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chief! First of all, I would like to point out that it's still worth putting a proposal before voting. That's the first one. Next. Our faction suggests that we work out these conclusions and return to them in the next sessional week of November 1st, primarily for the reason that the vast majority of our proposals, particularly those relating to the disabled, the agro-industrial complex, transport and others, the coal industry, were simply not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u174	Thank you. I repeat, I have made it clear and clear that what we are voting for, I have given the order and I have said that the first paragraph of this order is being voted on. Well, you don't have to look for a black cat where it's gone. Please, Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u175	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Please pass the word to my colleague Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u176	Please, it's Joseph Winsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u177	Honorable national MPs, indeed, are extremely complex and imperfect documents, and therefore complex voting. An absolutely understandable move in the faction position is that the document presented by the Cabinet of Ministers is imperfect and cannot be accepted by the Supreme Council. I think that's understandable to everyone. So we have one way out of this situation: we need the Cabinet of Ministers to take into account the budget committee's own proposals, the positions on the Supreme Council of People's Deputies, actually redesign the budget and resubmit it to the Supreme Council. There's no other option, in my opinion, because there's a lot of differences in the strategic nature of the budget, and unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance has no reaction to the position of the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u178	Yes, dear fellows, once again, a reminder. Well, let's be careful about what we vote for. We voted on what the budget code requires of us. The budget code says that when we consider the budget, we vote on the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee. And if we voted on the conclusions and proposals of the budget committee, that means, the budget code says that we adopted the budget in the first reading and sent it to the Cabinet of Ministers for preparation for the second reading. This is the kind of thing that we're not preparing for second reading with you, but preparing the Cabinet of Ministers with conclusions and suggestions that we're telling them, take into account. And then there'll be a second and a third reading. Since you and I have not accepted the conclusions, we have not accepted the conclusions and suggestions, which means that by translating into our understood language, we have not accepted the budget in the first reading. We didn't accept the budget in the first reading! Of course, the bill applies the rules of the Rules: not adopted in the first, can be re-adopted first; not accepted in the first, which means rejected. But to the budget, unfortunately, the Budget Code doesn't say, but what's next in this case, and that's why we need to look, as they say, at the Supreme Council and what's next. Here were suggestions that all of the suggestions that were being made were, in effect, that the profile committee could still work on conclusions and proposals, certainly with the involvement of the Cabinet of Ministers, so that these conclusions and suggestions could be so tight and unified that they could then, in preparation, if we accepted them in the first reading, be able to quickly and expeditiously prepare documents for the second reading so that we would no longer go beyond. Because, I remind you, under the budget code today we have the last day when we can look at the budget in the first reading. Today's the last day! So let's talk about it. The first proposal, not a faithful offer, but a requirement of the Budget Code. If we have not voted on proposals and conclusions in general, we should now vote on each proposal separately. And the second proposal that needs a little bit of our kind of a decision is to send the budget for the finalization of conclusions and proposals to the profile committee and bring it up for discussion on November 1st. Yes, there's no denying that we should put such a proposal to the vote? I won't. Then I make it clear for Bespalo and Bondarenko, please listen carefully. Once again, the Cabinet of Ministers has absolutely nothing to do with the first reading. This is the matter of the Supreme Council. When we direct them with our conclusions, when they report in the second reading, then another matter. Unfortunately, the budget is already in the Supreme Council. And until we accept it in the first reading, we can no longer direct it. So once again, a proposal will now be put to the vote, which is to entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs with further work on conclusions and proposals in conjunction with the Cabinet of Ministers – and to put forward to the deliberations of the Supreme Council, discussion, consideration of the budget in the first reading of the first November 2005. Who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. [[13:55:35]] For 306 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Communists – 556, "Regions of Ukraine" – 48, National Party – 45, "Our Ukraine" – 38, Block of Timoshenko – 1, Socialist Party – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 22, "Forward, Ukraine!" – 19, Social-Democratic, "One Ukraine" – zero, "Reforms and Order" – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 15, National Movement of Ukraine – 5, "Postfactional" – 18. Dear colleagues, we have many sins here. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Sophia Pavlovna. Then. Have a seat, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u179	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we will try to organize work on the committee in such a way that we will go once again on all the proposals with the factions. This will enable us here, in the hall to make an agreed decision. We would also recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers look at macro-indicators, because it is estimated that, from the moment this bill was submitted to this day, the macro-indicators are allowing the decision to call off this bill by Kabmin and its full count, because there is a rejection of more than 5%. But we agree to work out all necessary adjustments directly with the factions of the Supreme Council. That'll give, that'll get out of this situation, and I'm sure. That we will make a completely clear, balanced decision on November 1st, which will lead to an increase in the budget and the growth of Ukraine's economy next year. Thank you for your attention. And thank you all for your active work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes because as far as I've been informed, I haven't been in the first place, I've been in the Georgian delegation, and there are questions that we need to vote with you, so now we're going to deal with them, as they say. Put your hands down. The State budget issue has been discussed. We made a decision. There will be other questions, there will be other motives. Please listen to the announcement. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies and Article 4.2.2. I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Coloniary Alexander Petrovich from the faction “Parties of Entrepreneurs and Industrialists of Ukraine” and its membership in the “Forward, Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-10-20-m0.u181	Yes, we need, dear colleagues, we need to include and, if possible, quickly consider some of the bills in the agenda. This is a draft decree, issued by the People's Deputy Kirichenko on the hearing of a report by the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine Semenyuk and Minister of Industrial Policy of Shandria on the implementation of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to retain the ownership of the state of the VAT stock package “Crivorosian Mining and Metallurgical Combined ‘Crivorizstal’, as well as the move and conditions for the sale of the VAT package of “Crivorizstal”. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:59:35]] For 261 Questions in the agenda are included. The factions, please. The Communists are 56, the “Regions of Ukraine” is 49, the National Party is 39, “Our Ukraine” is 0, the Block of Timoshenko is 23, the Socialist Party is 25, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, “Go, Ukraine!” is 19, the Social Democratic Party is 16, “One Ukraine” is 8, “Reforms and Orders” is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 8, the People's Movement of Ukraine is 0, the Non-Factional – 19. I'm going to put it now, I'm going to put it to a vote on this issue because we've put it in the agenda. Listen to the head report on October 20th this year at 4:00 and so on. But let's not do it at 16. I'll explain why. You and I were supposed to be looking at judges at the age of twelve, not looking at them. So let's do about 4:30, because at 16, we'll look at the judges, and at 4:30, we'll listen to the report. With this clarification, I am voting on a decree with precision. At 4:30 p.m., and more precisely after we confirm the judges. Vote. [[14:01:10]] For 257 A decree has been taken to clarify that such information and the minister of prompolitics will be heard with you after considering the issue of the approval and release of judges. The factions, please. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 48, National Party – 41, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 15, Socialist – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, Social Democrats – 20, “One Ukraine” – 11, “Reforms and Order” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, People's Movement of Ukraine – 2, non-fractional – 20. [[Please don't break up. We still have a vote.]] [[United]] I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council ruling 8286 on events on the streets of Krestets and Maidani Independence on October 15th. Please vote. [[14:02:30.]] For 223 Please, by the factions. Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 47, National Party – 26, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 2, Socialists – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, Social-Democratic Party – 17, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 9, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 13. [[united]] Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. [[14:03:20]] For 226 The question is included. The factions, please. Sorry, we're back. The factions. The Communists – 55, “Regions of Ukraine” – 44, National Party – 44, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block of Timoshenko – 0, Socialist Party – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 19, Social Democrats – 20, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Reforms and Order” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 5, People's Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 14. [[United]] We're back. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[14:04:10]] For 240 The question is included. Dear colleagues, let's take this decision, but not on October 19th, because it's already passed, but tomorrow October 21st, with precision to listen to October 21st, and with that clarification, I ask you to vote. [[2:04:49]] For 230 Copy that. I also have here a discussion on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Law on Moratorium for the Import into the Territory of Meat and Food Sub-products of Domestic Birds. Registration number 8290. That's what the bird flu is, please vote for inclusion. [[14:05:32]] For 279 It's on. Dear colleagues, here are three points: Article 1 introduces six months of moratoriums on imports into Ukraine of meat and food by-products of the domestic bird. Article 2 — Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers to look for the necessary development of bird farming in Ukraine in order to expand the production of bird meat in domestic businesses. And article 3. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Please vote for acceptance in the first reading. [[14:06:19]] For 258. Copy that. Dear colleagues, considering that this law has a direct bearing on what we can stop with you, we cannot let us vote in general as a law and impose a moratorium on six months. We're gonna have to get rid of him. We vote in general as the law. [[14:06:53]] For 229 Copy that. Dear colleagues, you and I have worked very well with the budget. Therefore, I declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Break until 4:00 p.m. At 16 p.m., as agreed, we hear the first question about the appointment and release of judges. After that, we listen to the information according to the decision that has just been made. Have a good one!
