ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u1	Good day, dear colleagues, guests, invited by the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:05]] There were 406 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, two of our colleagues today have birthdays. This is Alexiyuk Sergei Sergiyovich and Salmin Oleg Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome them with these dates. [[Applause]] Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Razwadovsky Viktor Josephovich, from the deputy faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Board of Deputies and Groups decided on the schedule of meetings for the plenary week from April 19 to 22. You will be asked a list of the proposed questions. So let us move on to the issues that are set for today. First of all, I invite you to consider making an oath with the Ukrainian National MP. On April 14, 2005, the Central Election Commission registered with the National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich, elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the political party block of Viktor Yuszczenk "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being, to uphold Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all its fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u3	Let us welcome our colleague to the post of National Deputy of Ukraine. Yes, let us turn to the following questions. The Law on the Prevention of the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Public Health is being followed. So, yes, four factions, honorary colleagues, four factions: the faction of the "Ukraine" and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine -- they ask for a 30-minute recess and the convening of the Conciliation Council of factions. Well, we had it yesterday. And two factions: "Our Ukraine" and the Ukrainian People's Party are also asked to announce a recess for 30 minutes. Let's follow the established tradition: three minutes for the announcement, and we're not going to call it a break? Well, Conciliation Council. Please, representatives of our Ukraine and the Ukrainian People's Party, who is speaking? Three minutes. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u4	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Gudima, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Today, the attention of all citizens of Ukraine is attached to oil prices, and as they observe those indicators, the automatic hand taps its wallet, both its own and its own. I want to read a statement from the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party about a possible oil crisis. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party requires the government, the Henprosecutors and the U.S.S.A. to name names and punish members of the oil conspiracy back in 2004. We believe that such measures will be timely and justified, since it is necessary to prevent the creation of new monopoly cartels and prevent new oil shocks. In April 2004, the Antimonopoly Committee of Powers in Ukraine reportedly contracted oil traders, heads of private and state oil companies, leading to the biggest oil crisis of the past 10 years. This has hurt the economy of the country and the budget of tens of millions of Ukrainians. Recall that in that situation, the Antimonopoly Committee, which is now very active today, was actually a silent participant in the oil market conspiracy. Given last year's sad experience, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party requires the government to immediately take over from the famous financial and industrial group the management of VAT "Ukranafta", in which the state owns 50 percent plus 1 share. The network of Ukrnafti-owned auto-fuel stations and the 4 million tons of oil that it extracts each year should work for the stability of Ukraine's oil market. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party requires the government to take decisive steps to end the Odessa-Boda oil pipeline and use it in a direct European direction that will strengthen the energy security of the state. We also recommend that the government appoint Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyczuk as the CEO of the CCW "Ukratransnafta". We believe that in the main directions of Ukraine's energy strategy to be approved by the government, reducing dependence on Russian oil supply should become one of the main priorities. In addition to diversifying the supply of oil to Ukraine, the government’s tasks should be to increase its own production of oil, to stimulate the State’s production and to use its own commercial ethanol and compressed natural gas fuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u5	Yes, we've already taken one break, and there's still another break. Nestor Ivanovich. Let's go. In response to the demand of two factions who insist on a break and not just on a break, but on a break to call the Conciliation Council to reconcile further positions, I announce a break of up to 10 hours for 41 minutes. In five minutes, the leaders of the MP factions and groups are asked to go up to the fifth floor of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. On behalf of factions and groups, we apologize for the delay, but you know this usually happens when we hold the Conciliation Council. In 30 minutes, unfortunately, we almost never got involved. We're continuing the meeting. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich has a word from the breakring factions. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Respectable compatriots! In different ways, everyone present today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and bearing the high title of the Ukrainian National Deputy has taken the occasion in Maidan. But everyone was hoping that words like "citizens' rights," "freedom of speech" were not a slogan, and these are the purposes of the people who gathered this Mayan. And let's face it, we've got some results. What do we have today? Today, tens of thousands of our compatriots, even more, teachers, doctors, social workers are mass freed from their jobs simply because they do not hide their political views. They say they didn't vote for Yashchenka and now they're getting fired. We have tens, thousands of examples, and if we can create an investigative commission today, we can tell the public of Ukraine, all those who are hurting today for the rights of our citizens, for the rule of law and law in Ukraine, and today I've heard a replica from your faction, we've learned on the Conciliation Board about many interesting things, we've admitted that in the previous leadership, none of the politicians were convicted and not arrested. We've admitted today that even the hardships that we admit to have taken place with regard to the Village News have been compensated in a strange way. And this, once again, emphasizes that everyone understood that concepts such as freedom of citizens, freedom of speech, constitutional rights of our citizens should be respected. Today, we are witnessing that our fellow colleagues, Boris Kolesnikov, are behind bars. The circumstances of his detention do not call anyone into question, I am sure, neither of you nor of us, nor of society as a whole. We are witnessing today that our colleague, a city deputy, is with you today, because his status as such, the city head of Odessa Bodelan has been miraculously removed from power. We need to know that the Presidium of Judges has decided to open disciplinary action against Judge Jaros and to release the leadership of the Primorski District Court for a decision that is illegal. So we have no right to be outside. We need to respond, we need to protect our colleagues and our fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Now let me inform you about the agreement of the Conciliation Council. On the Conciliation Council, most of the votes came to the conclusion of our next actions. We will now be assigned to the session room with whether or not to the agenda for the establishment of the Temporary Special Investigation Commission. If this matter is included in the agenda, we will ask the initiators of such a commission to prepare, in accordance with the Rules, proposals for the composition of the Temporary Special Inquiry Commission. This was about, and we agreed that it would be created as in the Rules and written down on a proportional basis, depending on the number of factions and MPs, but both of them, one of the 20, but necessarily no matter how many groups or factions that don't have 20 people's deputies, will necessarily have 1 representative in that group. If we include in the agenda and if the initiators distribute, prepare, agree and distribute a draft decision to the session room, then we will immediately vote, this agreement on the conciliatory board, we will vote on this personal composition order, the personal composition of such a temporary commission of inquiry. This was the arrangement. Out of procedure, three minutes, please sign in. Yes, please, on Kandzer's monitor, behind Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u9	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, all this noise in the last days about repression, the persecution of the new power of the opposition forces, you know, it just makes me laugh. Hundreds of thousands of reprisals he's just talking about, he's been talking about, well, whatever his last name is. We realize that today every lawbreaker, every bandit in the law who's done uninhibited things, is bound to scream that he's being persecuted, that there's a reprisal against him. And we already have today as we observe the activity, the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General's Office, the extent to which our society has been corrupted globally. And weeding is certainly necessary and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u10	Please, Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, behind him Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u11	Thank you, I suggest, probably, the creation of this commission to support, because really, we have to look at what and what, but I would like to say the following for this reason: if the Ministry of Internal Affairs were actually acting fairly to both Kuchma and Kravczuk, and the same Medvedczuk, but if Medvedczuk had to do so, then Zinchenko, and Prashenko, and Zhvania, and all this little bit for 72 hours, or at least 48 hours, they would have shown them a little bit, it wouldn't have arisen so much, I think. In due time. There's a lot of talk here, and I don't know until now, from the first call, Yavorowski was the head of the Chernobyl committee. And they say there's some kind of humanitarian aid going on. Well, why don't they shut the man down and ask him where she was? And then, I don't think we would have any kind of conflict that they are now. I think the commission has to be created and it really does lead to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u12	Alexy Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u13	Please pass on the word to Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u14	Taras Chernobyl, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, we insist, we insist that such a commission be created. Our opposition to this issue has been scattered over and over again. A person who has not yet been able to make accusations has already been declared a criminal, tying him to a number of political forces and certain regions. Today, we do not want or insist that this commission get away with the matter. It is indeed the prerogative of the investigation and the mystery of the investigation. But when investigative issues arise, which should be a mystery, there are ongoing accusations, charges are general, we have to deal with a number of circumstances that are parallel. These are conditions of detention that even the Commissioner for Human Rights has found absolutely groundless. These are the circumstances of the conduct of the investigators directly and of those directly involved in the investigation. People who made rappers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u16	With motive, we're done, we're done. Please, a line. The name was Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's faction "Our Ukraine", Zovva, Yavorov, Lvivščina. Dear colleagues, here you have heard our loudspeaker from the Communists, who I think has been twisting the same lie that he himself has invented for ten years. That's why I want to answer him. I don't think Yavorowski needs to be closed for 72 hours, but if you keep slapping that lie on your tongue all over Ukraine, I'm gonna put you on trial for slander. Do you understand me? I think you got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u18	Please, Shufrich's microphone. It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u19	I read the names of people who are already suffering from the new regime. Listen. This is only part of those living in the Gitomirsk region. The chief doctors of the Olewsky district hospital are Sadow, Luginov, Popov. In Berdichev, Opanacuk. By the way, he's a widower, he has five children, he's had a stroke. At six o’clock he was locked up in his office, and he was required to write an application for voluntary dismissal. Is that not enough? But I keep reading. Zaviriono Useisheva - Jaman. Mary Bridge is Malin, Demchuk. Corsica is Moscalenko. School principals from Korostishev - Kiriluk Doctor. - Yavorowski. We can also say how mercury is. There are dozens of names from Kirovograd.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u20	The conversation is over. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and considering the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Colosskov, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan and other violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens that require an assessment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:29:12]] For the 220. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 49, People's Party - 26, Socialist - 1, Tymoshenko - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 1, Social-Democratic Party - 22, "One Ukraine" - 5, Democratic Ukraine - 14, Industrial Party - 14, Business - 14, Democratic Initiatives - 14, Alliance - 1, Non-faction - 11. [[united]] So, your honor, questions. Not enough votes to fit into the agenda. Yes, please, for three minutes, write down your motives. Yes, please, Kosov Mikhail, "Our Ukraine." He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u21	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, according to the Rules, I would like to ask you not to go back to this question, since it has been considered and has not received a suitable number of votes. However, at least tens and not only medical personnel can be added to that list of names, such as those of the five Ukrainian regional railway managers, who counted millions of dollars to some of the conditional charity funds. And it happens when the first interviews of these people are published in the press. Unfortunately, the tragedy of George Kirpa becomes clear. Gentlemen, colleagues! Be patient, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u22	Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, prepare Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u23	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Communist faction, 161 constituency. I'd like to go to the honourable deputies today, and perhaps to our authority a new one, that, in fact, these squabbles that go by the elections, they're already very tight and they're undermining trust in power. All of these questions are only brought to the attention of ordinary people, members of the commission and others. No one touches anyone at the top. The chief physicians end up with teachers, in education. And the experts, if I'm on Konotap right now, the professionals who have worked their whole lives have respect for people, and they're under pressure to leave their jobs today, then this commission that we're talking about right now, it won't stop them from getting it. Let us, along with what we have asked, consider others on this committee. And I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, once again to put the question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u24	Yes, please, Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u25	Vladimir Bronnikov. Please pass the word to Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to point out that this commission has no authority to intervene in the course of the investigation. We want to learn legal side effects. And the same thing is that those factions that today declare the support of the new authority have not voted in favour of the creation of a commission that should be dealt with in the facts, is there no reason, is there not, that there is a policy, not a criminal, can testify to one thing that the Kolesnik case is a political matter, otherwise I don't understand why our Ukraine, the UNP, the BUTU, the SPI fear the creation of a commission of inquiry, where their representatives will be? It was about proportional representation. So I can say that by this vote, if there is no re-voting, we confirm the Supreme Council Hall that this is a matter of political persecution for the sake of political conviction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on your decision to return to the vote on the inclusion of the day-to-day question of the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the detention of the head of the Donetsk district council of Colosskov, the removal from office of the Odessa city head of Bodelan and other facts of violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens that require an assessment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:34:49]] For 213 They didn't. So let the factions work. We have one more question to settle. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! I'll tell you what. Sit down, please! Dear colleagues, we have a decision to make. Don't get excited. - we'll have to solve one more question, and then we'll continue the discussion. First. I'm making remarks to people's deputies who do things that don't correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine or to the basic rules of conduct of the people's deputies in the session room. Please vote for yourself, each vote in his own factions. Next. Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly, over ten times on the advisory boards, asked questions about the need to hear the report of our colleague Gregory Omelchenko on the circumstances of the killing of journalists: Gongadze, Alexandrov, and others. This issue has not been supported on any of the advisory boards. Twice, if I'm not mistaken, this question was brought up for consideration by the session hall. So yesterday, the next time a number of factions raised this issue on the Conciliation Council, we agreed that today we would be asking questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the Interim Investigation Commission of National Deputy Gregory Omelchenka. And if the session room is determined, we will determine when, as it were, when we will listen to such a report. So yesterday, once again, this arrangement was on the Conciliation Council yesterday. For reasons of three minutes, please. Sign up. Yes, please, three minutes, Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Behind her, Anishtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u28	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gregory Omelchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u29	Please, Gregory Omelchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u30	National MP Gregory Omelchenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Thank you, Mrs. Lila, for your word. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I ask you all to support and include in the order of listening to the agenda the information of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, and the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the results of the investigation into the circumstances of the kidnapping and murder of journalist George Gongadze, so that it is not one-sided that from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine informed me of the results of the investigation and that you listen to me as the head of the commission of inquiry and then take those decisions that are prepared by the commission of inquiry. I ask you all to vote on the information of the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u31	Please, Vladimir Anitchuk, the Communist faction. Get Bronnikov ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Anishuk, the Communist faction. We have the same political developments in Odessa as the dialectic laws. Gurvitz, Bodelan, Gurvitz, Kirovgradski, Primorski courts and so on and so forth. That's why the commission should be. The Supreme Council must speak both in the Maritime Court and in other matters in the city of Odessa, so I think that such a commission should be established and it should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u33	This is another report from the Omelchenka Commission. Please be careful. Vladimir Bronnikov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Mr. Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u35	Please, Pecktail microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! The biggest crime is putting labels on a man who hasn't passed court. I'm asking you, distinguished colleagues, to be patient. Second question. What are the arguments for not voting? Chairman of the Council, President of the Council. Who's next? The President of the Supreme Council would like you to pay attention to what appears to be cynically arbitrary. We ask you to return to this issue again, we guarantee you an objective review and work of this Commission, and we also guarantee that until this issue is voted on, we will not unlock the rostrum of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! So once again, we're talking about whether or not we're including in the agenda of the Grigory Omelchenk report on the circumstances of the killing of journalists. You're talking about something else. Please, Karnauh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear voters! The right of Georgia Gongadze is a dark spot in the history of Ukraine, and there is no doubt that we will end up placing a dot in this story to find out who was involved in the order of the murder of Gongadze and Alexandrov, which is the role of this Major Melnichenko, from where he got the information, who was, as it were, the performer. So I think that the authorities should act transparently, openly. And today we need to hear information from the head of the commission of inquiry. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u39	Thank you. Thus, communication is complete. Dear colleagues! Once again, in line with the decision of the Conciliation Board yesterday, I put to the vote, the inclusion in the agenda, and the hearing of the interim commission of inquiry led by Gregory Omelchenko in connection with the killings of journalists: Gongadze, Alexandrov, and other issues that the commission was dealing with. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:42:19.]] For 184 In factions, please, "Our Ukraine" - 26, Communists - 56, "Regions of Ukraine" - 1, National Party - 6, Socialist Party - 27, Block of Timoshenko - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, Social Democratic Party - 0, Party "One Ukraine" - 18, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 2, Democratic Initiatives - 5, "Union" - 4, non-fractional - 10. [[united]] So the honourable colleagues, the honourable colleagues, the questions that we were supposed to consider with you about the inclusion in the agenda, we didn't include. Let us now consider matters in accordance with the order of the day. The draft law on the prevention of tobacco use and its harmful effects on the health of the population is being complied with. We have two Bills 6328 and 6328-1. The drafters are Ukrainian national deputies Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich and Rudekovsky Mikolaajovich. The committee will report to Bachelor's Tetjana Dmitrovna. Yes, please, Mikola Efremovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the world has acknowledged that tobacco is a slow-acting poison that has a devastating effect on the human body, causing more than 25 diseases. It is not a mere addiction to tobacco, but it is a serious chronic disease caused by smoking or other forms of tobacco use, which affects only 70 percent of patients with stable remission. Today, no means have been created in the world to completely rid the smoker of tobacco addiction. The lack of adequate objective information on the fatal damage to the health of the smoker and the people around him, whether active or passive, gives citizens of all ages the wrong idea that tobacco use is a simple habit, not a hard - to - cure disease. In Ukraine, 110 - 120 deaths per year are caused by tobacco. In some regions of Europe, when tobacco was banned in public places, the number of stenocardia and heart attacks decreased by 40 percent. Some 146 countries in the world are known to use effective and flexible legal mechanisms to protect the health of the population from the tobacco epidemic. By giving a brief outline of the proposed bill, I will note that it consists of a short preamble and 15 articles. Its legal and organizational measures are aimed at addressing the following basic challenges: reducing smoking among the population, ensuring the rights of a non-smoking person against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke, ensuring the availability of health care for those who want to quit smoking, strengthening public control over the production and sale of tobacco products, reducing toxicity, and improving the quality of tobacco for citizens who have chosen such a harmful habit as smoking. Improving public awareness of the harmful effects of tobacco use, promoting knowledge of healthy lifestyles, and especially among young people. Thus, the prohibition and restrictions on smoking among the population, particularly among children and young people, are directed at the bill prohibiting the sale of tobacco to persons under the age of 18, the sale of cigarettes through vending machines and postage, and in packs containing fewer than 20 cigarettes. It is not possible to implement tobacco products by workers of trade organizations who have not reached the age of 18 and to include tobacco products in military and other food rations. In addition, the bill provides for the right of the seller of tobacco products to demand a document from the buyer that testifies to his age if he considers the buyer to be a minor. To ensure that the appearance of prominent politicians and well - known socialists, popular people of today are not associated in the minds of the young generation with a cigarette, and that success and fame are not associated with smoking or other forms of tobacco use, the project also regulates the issue of tobacco advertising. In particular, it is forbidden to advertise tobacco products on the radio, in printed publications designed for children and young people, on television, in movies, in theaters, and in external advertising of tobacco products. In order to protect non-smokers from the negative effects of passive smoking, it is legally prohibited to smoke in health, education, culture, physical and sports organizations, as well as in public transport, workplaces, and so on, except for places specifically reserved for smoking. The project also highlights preventive measures. In particular, in order to address the issue of prevention of tobacco use, health professionals are obliged to inform the population of the harmful effects on human health and especially on children of tobacco use or other forms of tobacco use. Treating those who want to quit smoking and promote healthy lifestyles with active anticotic therapy. The legal norms laid down in the project strengthen State control over tobacco products produced and implemented in Ukraine by licensing the production and wholesale of tobacco products, reducing the content of harmful substances in tobacco products, which contribute to the development of cancer, cardiovascular and other diseases. A special warning label for the harm of tobacco use for human health is provided for packaging tobacco products. My point is that if some say that tobacco companies make up more than two billion dollars a year, the loss of tobacco used in Ukraine amounts to 12 billion dollars. I'd like to ask you to accept the bill in the first reading. And we'll work with you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u41	Are there questions, fellow believers? Please sign in. Light up on the monitor. Three minutes, Kosov Mikhailo, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u42	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear Mikola Efraemovich, you called the figures 2 billion. the profit of these tobacco corporations that are profiting from sales, from the realization of their products. And 12 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, it would be worth a vote at least to have you stop at two of those numbers in more detail, because they're amazing. I don't belong to those who insist on using nicotine, but I do have an interest in that question from time to time, so I'd like to know more precisely what you're thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u43	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, I would like to say that the damage caused by tobacco is primarily expressed by the fact that children and people living in an environment where they smoke are three times more likely to suffer from cardiovascular disease. It's bronchial asthma, bronchitis, bronchitis. Tobacco is the third factor in the risk of strokes, heart attacks. Of those with lung cancer, 80 percent are smokers. I would like to say that women who smoke may have more than 30 percent cancer of the ovary, breast cancer. It should be noted that children born to mothers, if a pregnant mother smokes, are often born weak, and by the age of five, seven, they are lagging behind in development. If you take all of this in a complex, you can say that tobacco is a legalized drug that not only harms the consumer but also harms the environment, as opposed to a drug addict who only drives himself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u44	Please. Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u45	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Novak Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u46	Vladimir Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u47	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I have two questions for you. You are now performing in two positions - both as the author of the law and as the minister of health. As the author of the law. Very often in your law and in the conclusion of the legal system, the word "non-quality tobacco products" is used. Can you explain what "good-quality tobacco products" and "no-quality tobacco products" mean? It's like the author of the law. As for the minister, please tell us: Is there at least one laboratory and equipment in Ukraine that could determine what good - quality tobacco products are and what good - quality tobacco products are? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleague, National Deputy Novak! I would like to say that relative to good quality and bad quality, which means that today tobacco is not allowed to be called good quality, but today there are accepted standards when tobacco products should contain a certain amount of resin, because the very negative effect is the extraordinary amount of resin. And where the number of resins exceeds the acceptable standards that are still accepted in the world today, those tobacco products are called innocuous. But I think that humanity is going to come to this term in general, because you're absolutely right, the poison can't be either good-quality or good-quality. can't be good-natured. As to whether there are any laboratories that can determine the number of resins in the system today. There are laboratories in Ukraine that can determine the number of harmful resins. This law also prescribes acceptable standards of resin content that should be the same as today in civilized countries, where this habit cannot be eliminated to the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Mikola Efremovich. I invite you to report to the People's Deputy of Rudzkowski Mikolaiovich. Bill 6328-1. Please, get out of the way, because. Mikola Mikolaiovich, I can't keep order. I'm giving you a chance to get out of here. You'll be more comfortable there. I'm asking the author of the bill: do you want to report it or should we move on? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u50	The honourable national deputies, the discussion of this law, are referring to the "Prohibition of the Use and Reduction of the Harmful Effects of Tobacco on the Health of the Population" which is very relevant to Ukraine. Amazing statistics: among consumers of tobacco, six percent are children of younger classes, even preschoolers. Each fifth grader smokes, nearly half of eight - year - olds, and about 60 percent of school graduates. If we analyze the situation, which is the cost of tobacco products, import and export to Ukraine, then minus the trade and payment balance is $525 million, given that tobacco products are imported into Ukraine. Tobacco products are being implemented everywhere — next to children’s toys, along with sports courses. Smoking takes place in all places, including places of rest, in cultural institutions, in schools, and there is no legislative restriction on the issue. There's a stamp commercial going on. All of this has a negative impact on the health of our nation. We spend billions of dollars on the State Budget to treat sick children. Nine - tenths of children who smoke are those who have health problems. And that's why we have to accept it in the first reading today, I suggest 6328 and 6328-1 unify, but by no means do we support the bill that lobbyists have insisted on making 7118, this law actually advocates the interests of tobacco companies. [[Mikola Efremovich and I are the same people here.]] I'm convinced that under new conditions we have to adopt a law that will allow people who don't want to smoke to breathe freely, and children will create conditions so that they won't be stimulated to smoke. What does the law offer? The law proposes that smoking be prohibited in schools and health - care facilities and in sports facilities. Make sure that 50 percent of the area is in restaurants and other places where they do not smoke. This will enable the father, even if he comes with a child in a restaurant to eat ice cream, to sit in such a place that the child is not affected by the harmful toxic substances that people smoke around him. I am convinced that the adoption of this law will limit the harshness and use of tobacco products by no means under the influence of advertising and external pressure. Another question. This will make our nation much healthier, and statistics say so. In other European states that have taken this issue seriously and adopted the relevant laws, the health of the nation is improving. I ask you, if you have any questions, I am ready to answer all questions, but I must vote on this law without delay. Of course, there is a lot of pressure from tobacco companies that have dropped money, including in the hall, there are some deputies who lobby their interests and explain that low prices are needed for tobacco products, there is no need to limit the number of harmful substances in cigarettes, and so on. This is actually a position that protects companies that receive hundreds of millions of profits, and this is a position that adversely affects the health of the nation and creates crime against the future nation. Please, what questions are there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u51	Is there a question for the reporter? Let's sign up. Three minutes. Gunnery Eugene. After him, Lechchenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u52	Dear Mikolayovich! You've reported the bill, but there are things in it that are long-standingly defined by legislation. For example, is it allowed to smoke in schools or other similar public places? Is there a need to duplicate all these things in your bill? Well, second of all. If a ban is imposed, it is likely that the ban will have to have some kind of permit, space, equipment, economic impact calculation or economic damage. Please answer these two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u53	It's the law that provides for another solution to what you're saying, taking other places. It is meant that there are 50 by 50 areas that should be offered both for smokers and nonsmokers. As for schools, schools, and so forth, it is not just about schools themselves but also about the territory around them. It is stipulated that it is forbidden to sell cigarettes around school at a distance. Because it's an additional incentive, language goes and the restrictions are not just the cigarettes themselves, but the confetti or other things, like, sugars, other things that look like cigarettes. And that, again, children can be stimulated to smoke. That's for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u54	Yes, please, Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u55	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikolayovich, well, I think both bills can be adopted in the first reading, but you know that the use of tobacco, as well as alcohol and drugs, depends on the cultural level of society. And the cultural level of social status. And the social situation you know is that people are unemployed, children have nothing to do. Previously, pioneer organizations, cosmopolitan organizations, and so forth worked. So I'm addressing you as well as the author and both as representatives of the ruling parties. Do you foresee any measures to improve the social status of the population so that the population uses less and more tobacco products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u56	As a representative of the Socialist faction, I would like to state that our position, like the Communists, is to increase the welfare of citizens, and we voted with you to increase the living minimum, to increase the living standards of Ukrainian citizens. The language now suggests that the adoption of such a law, which is now proposed, will improve the life and health of our nation by limiting the consumption of invalued tobacco products. It is proposed that the Ministry of Health’s Office and the authorized body of the Ministry of Health should regulate the quantitative content of harmful substances in tobacco products to encourage companies to place only low - quality substances and carcinogenic substances in the tobacco industry. That's the language right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u57	Matvienkov is asking for something.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u58	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, we've been listening very carefully to the answers to these questions. Of course, the issue of tobacco control is a very important issue. But what's most offensive is that we're considering the seventh or eighth law in this direction. And we can say with confidence that they are all protecting the interests of certain tobacco industries. Some laws protect producers, others protect the interests of others. And unfortunately, that's between the lines right here, between the lines in these laws. Therefore, when you read these bills, you are reluctant to say which firms are visible when you consider the bill or when you consider the bill. That's why I'm talking to the authors. If there is indeed a desire to create a bill to combat this evil, it is necessary to sit down and write a bill that is primarily for the interests of the people, their health, and the interests of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u59	From the Committee of the Professional Secretary of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood of Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna I can't see. Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u60	Lila Grigorovich, Health, Motherhood, and Childhood Committee Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood has carefully studied the two proposed bills and, under the authority of Mikli Efraemovich Polishtuk and Mikli Mikhailovich Rudzkowski. We want to point out our common view, these are the two bills that are designed to ensure the health of our citizens. I want to make an extremely authoritative argument. Dear friends, we can talk endlessly about the need for increased spending on health care, and I will show you how much money goes towards coping with the problems associated with smoking. Thus, I report that one third of our budget is spent on the treatment of smoking - related diseases, including heart disease, respiratory disease, and finally oncology. In view of this, we also want to bring to the attention of the national MPs, as well as the electorate who listen to us, that in the system of classification of international diseases tobacco addiction is classified as smoking. for your health. And here we go. We spend so much money on human health. Would it not be better, though, to limit, regulate, optimize health care not only for those who may become potential smokers but also for those who are next to those who smoke? Think for yourself about this statistic, the honourable national MPs, 98 percent of the cancer deaths of the larynx are tobacco, 96 percent of the lung cancer deaths are tobacco, 75 percent of the deaths of chronic bronchitis, and the pulmonary eczema is caused by this cause. So I don't think it's necessary to be evil to say that there's a tendency in the bill that's going to follow, which is actually lobbying the interests of companies that release tobacco products as opposed to two proposed bills. Thus, the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood decided to support these two bills, unite them, and vote in the first reading. Because of their limitations on tobacco use, the rights of nonsmokers from harmful influences, and the availability of health care for those who want to quit. And finally, improving public education on harmful tobacco - related habits. In view of that, I count on the logic and responsibility of the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u61	Are there any questions? Sign up. Please. Three minutes. Hiya, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u62	Dear rapporteurs, would you please tell us that, given your reports, it is possible to increase the responsibility for violations of current legislation by introducing more stringent standards than the bill provides for in the Code of Administrative Offences? In particular, for the issue and sale of a product that violates the health warnings of consumers of tobacco products, it seems more appropriate to impose a fine on officials from 30 to 50 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. And for smoking where it is forbidden by law and elsewhere determined by the decision of the council concerned, punishment in the form of a simple warning seems weak. I propose a fine of three to five untaxed minimum citizens’ income. By generally supporting the approval of this Law. I'd like to take these suggestions into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u63	Thank you. You have asked absolutely the right question regarding the fact that, in addition to the legislative regulation proposed by the two bills, it would be appropriate to amend the Civil Code. I think that's the subject, the subject that should be dealt with in our session hall by the Ukrainian National Deputies. At the same time, dear friends, I would like to emphasize what is quite a good idea. If we see a few public, public, public precedents, if we punish a seller who still sold cigarettes to a teenage child, and that's going to be a well-known fact throughout the country, I think this example will also be of great educational importance. So I think you can make these changes to the Civil Code, this is the legislative initiative of the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u64	Michael Loboda, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u65	May I have a word with Hinsburg, Olga Petrovney?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u66	Please, it's Olga Hinsburg's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Lilia Stepanovna! I wanted to ask Mikola Efraemovich my question, but it turned out I didn’t have a turn. But you're going to answer me, probably no less qualified to answer that question. Tell me, please, when you're going, you're going to the station, these kids are about 10-12 years old, they're, like, dressed up in these adult clothes, adult sneakers, and they're all walking around with cigarettes, they're like old people already. Or somewhere near the bars, they're all spinning cigarettes. And tell me, what is the chance of today's power that has come and made it a goal to fight for the future of these children so that they don't wander around like this, you tell me what to do, can we do with this law to improve the fate of these children? Because it is smoking, this law will not be able to prohibit them from getting any less cigarettes out there and smoking again and thereby losing their lives. Should we take care of these children in another way? Including the old people who are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u68	I thank you, Olga Petrovna, for your question, it is of course extremely broad and stands out for the power of the bill that is proposed in our consideration. But let me put it this way, again: if our respected sellers, the enforcers of tobacco products, respected the legislation that is there, and I think they'll soon start to respect it better, of course, the release of tobacco products to teenage children wouldn't have such a common place, because they wouldn't have at all. All of this calls for the enforcement of legislation, including that of the queen. Regarding children, older people, and everything else that should be done by the authorities, I stress that on May 1, it will be only 100 days before the newly elected president works, two weeks from now, only a hundred days from the work of the newly elected government. Compared with the zenith of many other presidents and governments, they take seven steps. Help them, including the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to begin our discussion. If we take 15 minutes, would you mind? So it's 15 minutes. Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, the honourable presiding, apparently, to the factions, who also hold tobacco factories, are now not interested in discussing this issue, so they're blocking the rostrum. I would like you and I to understand that it is also the economic interest of these factions that have crushed the billions of dollars in human misery. I would like you to know that 146 countries in the world are using every means possible to protect the health of their population against the tobacco epidemic. And when you arrive at some civilized airport, Adam Ivanovich, you see that there are reservations actually for those who smoke. And that's right, it's the protection of those potential people that you're forcing to breathe that smoking. As early as 2003, I proposed a regulation on the protection of citizens' constitutional rights against the harmful effects of tobacco smoke, including the ban on tobacco smoking in the Supreme Council's administrative buildings, in enterprises and organizations that provide for its activities, except in designated places. And what do we know, Adam Ivanovich, that we have such a place? Where are they? Show it to me! You go into the bathroom today, not in the personal room, but in our bathroom, the people's deputies -- and you're going out to smell that smoke, because you can't see anything because of the smell that's standing there. This bill needs to be adopted both, but it needs to be taken specifically to fight, to stop the fight. In order to make sure that people's health continues to be preserved by the gene pool of the nation. 10 billion minus what Poljczek said. 2 profits for them, 12 losses for the budget. Ten billion! And how many people's lives are going, and how many people are suffering from passive smoking is not calculated, and it's all very expensive, so let's take these measures. Let's just define. I gave it to you. I didn't give my project, I made my proposals, I suggested that we define what "passive smokers" are, and I suggested that we take an example from the President's administration, where the head of her former Vladimir Litwin banned smoking, and we can't smoke there today. And we have it in the Supreme Council and around.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Satina.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u72	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Despite the fact that tobacco is a slow-moving poison, its use has increased over the past 10 years. For example, nearly 20 percent of school - age children smoke from the age of 11. Sadly, 1 in 4 women smoke too. Life has repeatedly proved that tobacco use causes a number of chronic diseases. In recent years, oncosa and cardiovascular diseases have been particularly common among such people, and these diseases have become more rejuvenated. In Ukraine smoking is often the cause of disability. More than 6 million people die from this scourge worldwide, but neither the State nor the Ministry of Health conclude. The production of tobacco is increasing with each year. In Ukraine tobacco products are available at prices not only for the adult population but even for the unemployed and the children. Too bad that smoking has become prestigious for a schoolboy today. And it is embarrassing even to see a teacher smoke more at school breaks with his students. It's unacceptable. And the reason is that Ukraine today, with its legislative indifference to tobacco, does not fit into existing international norms in this area. In many countries of the world, effective and flexible legal mechanisms for regulating the circulation of tobacco products and public health are used to protect the health of the population. The issue of prevention of tobacco use needs to be addressed immediately. Medical personnel should constantly inform the population of the harmful effects of smoking on the health of people, especially children, and promote a healthy lifestyle. Medical professionals should be frequent school guests and give children advice on why smoking should be discontinued, nicotine therapy should be preferred, and when quitters are found, help them to be treated with appropriate health care. Finally, tobacco advertising needs to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u73	Mikhail Sithina, faction of the People's Party. He will be followed by Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u74	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, 74 constituency, Carpathians, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Tobacco has become a sign of a planetary disaster. Usually, a smoker lives 6 to 8 years less than his non-smoking peer. And the total billions of damages from this attack cannot be calculated at this time. Today, smoking has also become a real consequence of social distress. What is more dangerous is that 99 percent of young people smoke themselves and surround themselves with stinking smoke instead of sophisticated fragrances. The damage to tobacco and the need to overcome this harmful phenomenon, or at least to mitigate its harmful influence on the environment, can be long - term. Yet, we will not be able to move the problem out of place without getting to its root causes. This is where destructive forces often intervene against the destructive influence that the state has always had to defend itself. This is about the involvement of smuggled goods in legal ties in the domestic tobacco market. This causes tremendous harm not only to the State but also to consumers who neglect their own health for the sake of a deceptive meager advantage. It is through the Russian and Moldovan areas of the state border that transit routes to Ukraine cost the most dangerous to human health, unfiltered cigarettes that make up 90 percent of the total amount of illegal supply. The regulator of the internal market for tobacco, smuggled goods, is the difference in prices, which depends on the rates of excise duty in Ukraine and other neighbouring countries. Hence, it is possible to obtain substantial profits from the smuggling of tobacco products. Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction will support this bill, which is under consideration, for two reasons: with its acceptance, we will define a framework for a legal field that is unified in international law to combat the smuggling of tobacco products in conjunction with international structures. The second is over, in fact, with impunity in this area. Taking into account the relevance and inadequacy of the issues of prevention of tobacco use. The faction of the People’s Party considers it appropriate to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u75	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Michaela Melniczuk will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u76	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe the bill is a call, a beautiful slogan, a dream, a manila bridge, to a so-called, bright future without tobacco, a future with clean air. Why do I propose this definition of the bill? In order to reduce the number of citizens who are addicted to tobacco, it is well - known that measures are needed to improve the culture of people rather than simply clarify the dangers of smoking to their health. So let's take a look at this. There's these so-called de-file parades, there's the promenades, there's women or girls, and now there's this habit on the body of a transparent net, and whoever says, this net is a dress, or it's just a mascara, which has a whole other purpose than clothes. Similarly, with this information and information on the harmfulness of the use of tobacco for human health. When a cigarette pack is painted with an attractive ad picture and around the bottom with small letters that are harmful to your health, forgive me, it reminds me of something other than propaganda for healthy lifestyles. And one more thing. Advocacy in a healthy lifestyle is needed not only by calls but also by creating conditions and prerequisites in the country’s national budget for such a healthy lifestyle primarily for children, schoolchildren, students, and young people in general. What do our young people now see from television screens? If in earlier times of the Roman Empire the slogans "bread and spectacles" were known to please the so-called Roman plebes, we now have quite different, from bread and spectacles to the call "beers, cigarettes and spectacles." That's what the television and the commercials are offering us. So these bills don't solve the question, they're just a dream. But even this dream is considered appropriate to support both in the first reading and to satisfy certain real suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u77	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support both bills, especially that the author of Bill 6328-1 is Rudekovsky. But in general these two bills are very timely. And I certainly agree with those colleagues, the people's deputies who have expressed their support for this bill. I would like to say that the bill will certainly have a positive impact on reducing the level of use and smoking, which is the restrictions on access for minors, especially I would like to stop at the fact that minors are today. And in general, I think they've made up for this day in the schools that the students that Mr. Mikola Rudzkowski was talking about, that in schools, especially in high schools, smoking goes quietly behind school, teachers see the school director. And that's all going to be normal. Perhaps some action should be taken more clearly after the second reading in order to strengthen the influence of the law in order to be held accountable by those leaders. And it won't be, let's say, shamefully, if the Supreme Council and the people's deputies are an example in this matter. Because we don't have a place to go either, because at least there's an ax hanging. Therefore, when we adopt laws, we must understand that we should set an example for society from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm basically finishing up the bill. I'd like to respond to a statement that was announced here regarding the investigation of people and the removal from work that the respective party has declared. Dear friends, this is certainly not good when there are such phenomena, especially here was an example in the area of Zitomir and so forth. But I'd like to stop at the next one. I'd like to take a look at the examples of the Chernobyl area. If such examples are based on the Montenegrins, I will find many heads of education, chief physicians, who forced the subordinates to go out and campaign for the candidate and so forth. And if it's a violation of the law on whether it's the head of management or the chief of staff, then they have to write their own application and get out of these places and not wait for legal action to be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u79	Closer to a cigarette, closer to a cigarette. Yes, the discussion is over and we will be determined. With motive? Yes, for reasons only to the one who is written down. Please, Shuma, one minute. Anatoly Frost later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u80	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Without a doubt, the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on Public Health deserves attention and support. But I would like to focus on those who are listening to the session that today, Health Minister Polishchuk Mikola Efremovich did not sign off on the mandate of the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which he promised on Maidan. It violates 120 articles of the Constitution and 78 articles of the Constitution. He is both the minister and the head of the Health, Maternal, and Childhood Committee. I think he's got two wages. And if he doesn't have two wages, let him make it up to you. In view of the fact that the Minister of Health is violating the Constitution, the faction will not vote in favour of this law in order to draw society’s attention to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u81	Anatoly Frost, followed by Ratuszny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u82	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I really agree with all the colleagues who have spoken here, and the first, and the second, and the third, they deserve attention and certainly these laws should be adopted. Sadly, for some time now there may have been no need to unite them, develop them, and adopt, indeed, a fundamental law that would order our country in the matter of tobacco, the sale of tobacco products, and so forth. But I wanted to point out this: The law is the law, it is accepted for law - abiding people, and here’s what is involved with lawless people, and they need to be worked with. And I think this right over here is a big field for our societies and our societies. and so on, which unfortunately are not working very well today. Especially should this work be directed to work with a growing generation. Unfortunately, there is a job in preschool schools today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u83	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian People's Party supports the Polish law on the fight against tobacco. I would say this has already been said that Ukraine signed an international convention, a framework convention with WHO, on June 25, 2004. And we are simply obliged to accept and amend legislation by doing so. I'm going to say from myself, as a smoker, I'm going to say, those who are going to smoke, believe me, all the people who smoke, they want to quit. And we are confident that this law will help those who have not started smoking, not to start smoking, but to quit smoking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful, we will now be determined. Now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's finish the question, then I'll listen to your suggestions. Dear colleagues, we've discussed two bills. I'm reminding you again of the decision of the profile committee. The Special Committee invites us to adopt draft Bill 6328 as a basis for the first reading, and second paragraph suggests that in preparing the bill for the second reading, the basic positions of Bill 6328-1 should be taken into account. That's the committee's proposal, but I'm going to go with the arrivals. The draft Law on the Prevention of the Use of Tobacco Products and Their Harmful Effects on the Health of the Population is on the vote. Registration number 6328. Vote, please. [[12:34:15]] For 241 The bill was adopted in the first reading. And once again, we've taken it as a basis, we've adopted Bill 6328 with the task of preparing for second reading to take into account the basics of Bill 6328-1. [[By factions? Now]] The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 70, Communists - 55, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 23, Socialists - 26, Block Timoshenko - 17, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, Social Democrats - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, industrialists and entrepreneurs - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, "Soyuz" - 13, "Afterfraction" - 12. Dear colleagues, we have a day of constant requests for recess. Two factions: The Socialist Party, the factions of the People's Party -- they ask for a 30-minute recess or a word. Please, John Boki, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u86	I'm authorized to announce a statement by our parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The peaceful victory of the Ukrainian people over the clan's oligarchic system of power in the course of the orange revolution was largely ensured by the social agreement that Parliament has demonstrated by voting more than 400 votes in favour of constitutional reform in a package with additions to the Presidential Election Act of Ukraine. For Ukraine, this event was a historic turning point from authoritarianism. It would seem that Ukraine is firmly and sequentially beginning the transition to democracy. And these days, there are allegations from the mouth of the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister that the constitutional changes are flawed and a referendum is being held on them that the President should have the powers that are enshrined in the current Constitution, that the reform would lead to chaos in the country and would even violate the cornerstone of the division of power. The Socialist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine alleges that the intentions of some high-ranking state officials are, if not a public opinion probe, nothing more than a blow to democracy's back and back to the authoritarian power system that the December revolution wiped out. It's essentially about going back to those. the phenomenon as the concentration of all power in the hands of one person and its environs of a particular clan. The Socialists firmly claim that we are ready for all constitutional means to counter the attempts of an anti-democratic rematch. We will not let the hope of the participants in the orange revolution, the entire Ukrainian society, of reforming the power systems in Ukraine, which is the only one in complex with a new realistic and economic policy capable of bringing about positive changes in people's lives. All discussions on the imperfections of constitutional change only cover the desire of individual representatives of the new authorities to halt the implementation of constitutional reform since the fall of this year to retain authority and ensure their business exploitation. Ukrainian Socialists hope that the statements made by the Secretary of State and Prime Minister do not reflect the position of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, that his support for political reform in December 4th was unconjunctural, and that he firmly deviates from the intentions of some authorities to halt the entry into force of progressive constitutional changes. We look forward to his clear position on this matter for the next few days. Protecting constitutional reform means protecting the choice of people made in December 4th, protecting Ukraine from rematch. The power, from return to the times and order of authoritarianism, to save the state from decay and disintegration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, listen to another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Fomenko Catherine of Alexandria from the Union's MP group and the membership of the Ukrainian People's Party. Since there is a constant requirement and a warning to the Chief that I am in violation of the Rules, a break of up to 13 hours is announced for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u88	The factions of Democratic Ukraine, Democratic Initiatives, ask for a 30 - minute recess and to convene meetings of the Conciliation Council. So I'm going to call it a 13-hour break for 45 minutes. Leaders of the MP factions and groups, please rise on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u89	Yes, the next break is over. At this time, what you're seeing, we're more quickly in session than tomorrow, not much disturbed, just for 7 minutes. According to the Rules, who is given the word from the initiators? Who is to act? Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u90	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! 220 votes are the citizens of Ukraine, the people's deputies of Ukraine, who today understand that the right, the constitutional right of our citizens to choose their jobs freely, to live freely, to express their political views, is guaranteed by our country's supreme legislative act, the Constitution. And today we can't go past the problems that, unfortunately, exist in our country, and I'm convinced that people have gone on the field. Now we're not going to tell them if their dreams are true, if they've seen the society they've risked for. They had hoped for the better, and they are now suffering from new authority. Today we've been accused of calling only two names. So what I want to say to these people is that we've already, using just one minute, named about ten specific names of specific people: doctors, teachers -- who are being released today solely by political preferences, because they don't hide that they didn't support Yashchenka. You are witnessing a very presumptuous invitation to enquiries. By the way, when John Rizak spoke to an investigator yesterday and a half yesterday, he was not told whether he was invited or not. He called from the hospital and asked where he needed to go. And then he comes in an hour and asks the investigator for a job and says he's waiting for him. We witnessed a man, a teacher from Žitomirščina, a widower who held five children, being held in a room for six hours, demanding his release. Are such methods appealing to the new authorities? We need to find out, and this commission of inquiry, I'm sure, will either confirm or disprove the names.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, you've heard the announcement initiators' information. Literally a few words about conversation on the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council continued the discussions that we had during the first recess announcement and the meeting of the Conciliation Council, which were based on the idea that we should first put the agenda into order and then form a temporary commission of inquiry. There were various proposals, including proposals, to make from the commission name part of the MP factions and groups, the ones in the first. During the first vote they did not support this decision, he says: If names are removed from the name of the commission, they are not excluded from voting. There were suggestions for some factions to support what was said during the first session of the Conciliation Council, where it was meant to create a working group from each faction to prepare a draft decision first. The initiators of this issue insist that the names of those names should not be removed. those names that are called here because otherwise it will be, as it were, a question, well, in their view, not to answer the essence of what they want. In principle, the way out I see it is that we can, in this case, just once again put to the decision of the Supreme Council the question of return on this issue. I see there's a need for motive. Please sign up, three minutes. Yes, on the monitors, please. It's "Our Ukraine." After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u92	Please tell me why the question that was voted twice and does not get enough votes, the question that is obviously speculative, by changing the name of the decision, they try to do it again, because all we see behind it is a rematching attempt. A factor that today acts purely as a criminal factor is to be translated into a political plane. I don't think it's appropriate to put this question to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u93	Please, Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction. Follow him, Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters, radio listeners! I would like to point out that if this is one part of the MP's body that is blocked by the adoption of this decision, then it is suspected that this part of something is afraid that the MP's commission will reveal something that will then be made public and will not be in their favor. This suspicion is spreading more and more. So I would urge you, if you're sure of your right and you don't want this to spread, vote and let's create this commission. And for the radio audience, I'd like to say that you see this, this is a direct reflection of the actions of today's government as it has done, and this authority, not for corruption, not for economic crimes, but for those who have politically failed to make a treaty with this authority, they're all drawn to criminal responsibility and they're not saying that for that. If it were said to be a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u95	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Very short on two shades. First. What you can call motive. Whether it's a political or criminal investigation, the answers were given by the pervasive factions, because if it were an exclusively criminal case, they wouldn't have had any trouble agreeing that a parliamentary commission, in which, by the way, most would represent the forces that are in control, as we see today's schedule in the Supreme Council, would study the situation and report to Parliament, saying there are no violations. So the violation is, and is, an open, absolutely clear political element. This is what the dominant part of the Ukrainian Parliament declared before all of Ukraine today. As far as the procedure is concerned. I'd like this vote to be held at four. We see that we have fallen discipline, that people are fundamentally lacking, and that we don't violate there, that we vote for a few deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u97	Yes. They're done. Dear colleagues, there are 421 national deputies in the room, and it takes 226 votes to make a decision. So it's all right here. This is the first, second, I, with your permission, will answer the questions of our colleague, National Deputy Zizko. On the one hand, you are right, why are we so logical that you ask the question: Why are we going back again because the question has already been voted twice? We return not from a good life, but from the fact that this is a requirement of several factions. And it's not just the faction requirement, and they're doing everything they can to either make a similar decision and go back to it, or we can't and won't be able to work with you. So, based on our repeated practice already here, repeatedly already here, and the insistence was recently on the other side, we have come back not once to find understanding between the deputies, to find the opportunity to continue the effective work of the Supreme Council, the effective work of the Supreme Council. We're already on the ground of the vote, Alexander Mikolaiovich, you just, you just spoke on the grounds of the vote and you spoke out of the procedure. We've talked about it. So I, my dear colleagues, would like you to pay attention. I'm voting for a return vote, a return to the agenda for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnikov, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan and other violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens that require an evaluation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:03:50]] For 196 By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 55; "Regions of Ukraine" - 51; People's Party - 10; Socialists - 1; Block of Timoshenko - 0; Ukrainian People's Party - 0; Social-Democratic Party - 22; "One Ukraine" - 3; "Democratic Ukraine" - 17; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9; "Democratic Initiatives" - 11; "Union" - 9; non-fractional - 8. [[united]] Questions. So we're not going back to the question. Because the time has come. Please sign up for three minutes with suggestions on what to do next. Please, Carmazin, follow him, Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u98	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, we see with you that today's next meeting of the Supreme Council has been torn down and many millions of damages to the people of Ukraine will be caused again. When there was a lie about the situation in Odessa today, I want to tell you that the situation in Odessa is different, Bodelan's rating does not exceed 3 percent. And what they're saying about the courts is that Bodelan filed a complaint in the same Primorski court regarding the decision of the City Council session, which he himself called. So there's an absurdity in Bodelain's actions, just not all of his own friends know all of this and they're fighting for that property, for that land that was captured in Odessa, but neither the Germans nor the Romanians will get it, and they won't get the esdeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u99	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u100	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u101	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all I am addressing you, as I would like to inform the radio audience that the Communist faction would like to ask you to support and vote for inclusion in the agenda today and to consider the issue, they are short, but they are of great importance to our veterans before the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. This is a reference to the Heads of State, Parliament and Government of the SND countries regarding the joint victory parade. And the second. This appeal to the local deputies of all levels of counsel regarding the return of justice and truth with regard to the heroes of the Great Homeland War, whose name was taken from the appointments of streets, squares, and so forth. We'd like to address everyone today, dear colleagues, let's vote on these two brief references. And so we're going to draw attention again and again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u103	Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to give the floor to a colleague of Taras Vyacheslavovich Cnervol.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u105	Taras Blackwall's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. We all see perfectly that there are no 421 deputies in the room. This is a fundamental violation of the principles laid down in the Rules and in the laws that each MP votes on his own. I'm asking you, after a four-hour break, to come back to this question, which can't actually be considered as something that was voted on. Otherwise, you're actually pushing us to break up a job that we don't want to do, we absolutely don't want to break the job again from four o'clock. I think it's wrong, and we have to go back to thinking about the fourth hour of the day and think about the one nuance -- we're not just protecting Kolesnik in this case, we're trying to destroy this foster system that has evolved, which is now being supported by the same people. The same deputies in the Henprosecutor's Office, the same people in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And we're fighting this, and this investigation committee has to stop these facts, not some specific ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u107	Let's go on for two more minutes, because other factions are offended by what they're trying to say, they can't. Please, Basil Nadrag of the People's Party and factions. Prepare Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u108	Respectable colleagues, speaking of the situation, can be said. We were discussing it in fact. Regrettably, today is another example that our political ambitions here in this room, unfortunately, do not give positive decisions and positive votes on matters of sufficient relevance. So, from this point of view, there's probably a point today to take a two-hour break and start working at 4:00. I'm the only one who's asked to work. I can listen to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u109	Yes. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u110	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Land and Property Owners. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is ready to support the decision to set up a commission of inquiry. But we have suggested that we can support this decision if the package votes on what is included in the agenda and hears the report of the interim commission of inquiry, Gregory Omelchenka. We have to do it eventually. But for that reason, we don't understand the position of factions of regions that refuse to vote in a packet. We're ready to vote and if we have to, and this is in line with the Rules, we can do it at 4:00, but let's vote in a package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-19-m0.u111	Yes, they were exchanging thoughts. Dear colleagues, here was Taras Crnovol's observation that we don't have a 421st, he's right-- 416 already national deputies. But there was no violation of the Rules. There is absolutely no record anywhere in the Rules that voting takes place only when there is a certain number in the room. As many as there are. You realize that the question is different, not how many are present. So the time has come for us to break according to the Rules. I declare this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Break till 4:00.
