ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you all to take your seats. I think we're going to have a normal job, I'm sure of that. Please, let's sit down and work. Now we're going to vote to continue our work in 20 hours, we're going to look at all the questions, and we're going to make the right decisions. See you in the morning, yeah. Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] The 406 National Deputies entered the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues! Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the plenary session on July 6, yesterday: 19 issues of the agenda have been considered, seven laws have been passed, nine bills adopted on the first reading on the basis of one bill, two drafts have been adopted. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, three laws have been passed in a new edition, and an annual report by the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms and citizens in Ukraine has been heard. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, now for the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melnikov Mikoli Petrovich, from the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and its membership in the People's Party faction. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have a huge list of bills to adopt, especially in the second reading, as well as the need for ratification of treaties, as well as for the adoption of bills that the President and the Government have identified as first priority, I propose that this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continue to be held within 20 hours. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:04:23]] For-191 The decision is not taken. I'm asking you to mobilize, and I'm going to put this proposal back on the vote again in a little while. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 71, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 2, People's Party - 30, Block Timoshenko - 37, SPU - 2, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, "Ukraine" - 16, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 6, "Democratic Initiatives" - 2, "Afterfractional" - 4. Then, dear fellows, I'm asking you there for, say, documents, especially ratifications that don't need further arguments, let's just make decisions, taking into account the proposals made by the profiling committees. On July 6, 2005, the Central Electoral Commission registered Misur Vadim Jaroslavovich as Ukrainian national deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency by the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory national constituency. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vadim Jaroslavovich Misyur, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u3	Yes, let's welcome Vadim Jaroslavovich. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, will inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ms. Vadim Jaroslavovic, into the membership of the parliamentary faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have a schedule of meetings. I'm asking you, honourable national deputies who are standing by the rostrum here, we'll be working according to schedule. Everybody, take your seats. We'll work according to schedule. And we're going to make a quick decision this way. I think it's gonna be okay. Please, let's work. The issue of a permanent suspension of the powers of individual national deputies is being considered. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, chairman of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Please, Valentin Grigorovich. Well, dear colleagues, please, we agreed that we're working on a schedule, so everything will be fine. Come on. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u4	Thank you. My fellow Members, yesterday at a committee meeting, 11 national deputies have been considered and, in accordance with article 5, part 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, draft decrees of the Supreme Council are being submitted to you for consideration, in particular on the permanent termination of the powers of the Parliamentary Paul Ivanovich, elected in the one-man election district number 65, the Zitomir Region, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. As you know, he has been appointed head of the U.S. Army. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! A draft decree of the Supreme Council on the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy of Ukraine, Pavel Zebrovsky, registration number 7779, is submitted to the vote. [[10:09:51]] For 346 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u6	A draft Decision on the permanent termination of the terms of office of Ivanova Sergia Anatoliyovich, selected in the one-maned constituency no. 3, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is being introduced in connection with his written application for parliamentary powers. He's the head of the Sevastopol City Administration. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u7	A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Sergio Ivanova, registration number 7772, is put to the vote. [[10:10:45]] For 364 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u8	It is proposed to adopt a decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Yvchenka Alexija Grigorovich, elected in a multi-mandatory constituency constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties, the Victor Yushchenka bloc "Our Ukraine", in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers, he has been appointed First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u9	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexia Yvchenk, registration number 7773, is submitted to the vote. [[10:11:52]] For 380 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u10	It is proposed that the decision be taken to terminate the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Nikolaynek Stanislav Mikolaiovich, elected in election district No.187 in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. He is known to work as the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u11	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Stanislav Nikolayenka, registration number 7774, is put to the vote. [[10:12:46]] For 371 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u12	Thank you. It is proposed that the decision be taken to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Polishchuk Mikoli Efraemovic, elected in the one-maned constituency No. 214 of the city of Kiev, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary authority. He is known to work as Ukraine’s health minister. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u13	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mikoli Policchuk, registration number 7775 is put to the vote. [[10:13:41]] For 372 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u14	A draft Decision on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Rybikin Pavel Borisovich, elected in the one-maned constituency of 131, Mikolaiiv district, is being introduced in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. He is currently serving as deputy minister of transportation and communications for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u15	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Paul Ryabikin is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7776]] [[10:14:37]] For 373 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u16	Your consideration is based on a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the national deputy of Turkey, Alexander Valentinović, selected in a multi-mandate national constituency, the electoral bloc of political parties, the election bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. He is known to be the head of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u17	The draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Turkinova is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7781]] [[10:15:34]] For 336 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u18	Thank you. It is proposed to adopt a decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of National Deputy Tsushka Vasil Petrovich, who was elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, in connection with his personal application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Guilt assigned to the head of the Odessa government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u19	The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Tsushka is put to the vote. Registration number 7778. [[10:16:30.]] For 351 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the committee meeting, there were also statements by Ukrainian National Deputies - Atrocenka Vladislav Anatoliyovich, Jovtak Evgen Dmitrovic, Twača Roman Volodymyrovich - who are working for today as Czernigów, Kyivsky, Johno-Frankovsky Regional Administrations and for which decisions of the Kyiv Court of Appeal were previously taken on the termination of their terms of reference. Yesterday, the same Court of Appeal in Kiev, after examining the statements made by the noted national deputies regarding the review of earlier decisions under the new circumstances, satisfied them and overturned their decision to terminate their parliamentary powers. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why. Take it easy. Thus, the committee examined the statements made yesterday by the noted National Deputies and made draft decrees by the Supreme Council on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies, Atrocenka Vladislav Anatoliyovich, elected in the one-man election district number 207, the Chernigiv region, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u21	Three minutes of motive, please. But these motives will apply to three candidates. Please sign in. Before the vote, before the vote, they have a right of reason. Please, Hennady Josephovich Udovenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u22	I don't think there are any problems we need to discuss. There's a personal statement by the National Deputies, there's a committee decision, so let's not finally do the cassuistics here anymore. Well, they were added to the fact that they wrote these statements. So let us support their courageous decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u23	Stanislaw Phydenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u24	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u25	Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you, first of all, to broadcast on the street, many people are still waiting to hear what this is about in the Supreme Council. Secondly, Valentin Grigorovich, honourable, please let us explain to the people of Ukraine what the new circumstances are when a faction of Communists for six months, the Supreme Council is fighting to ensure that Yushchenka, as President, fulfills his promises, has really freed the people who violate the Constitution and occupy it. embrace positions that should not have been hugged. In breaking the Constitution, they create corruption in power, and today they have united a powerful capital with their own interests and used office and budget to meet their own needs. So what are these new circumstances, first of all? And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I still wanted to hear from you about the rest of the people that Valentin Grigorovich won't call, the measures that have been taken, and when we're going to look at the rest of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u27	I'm asking the Secretariat to prepare information after the vote, who else has left of the accomplices. Valentin Grigorovich will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u28	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll report in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u29	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u30	We must have very serious warnings about the judicial branch of power in this regard, since these new circumstances may seem only to the wish of the violators themselves of the Constitution to go, not with shame, through the courts, but as a claim. This is no reason to change the decision of the Court of Appeal. That's the first one. And the second. I very much ask you, Your Honor, after the end of the vote on these candidates, to provide information, first, on who is to be more compatible, and second, on whether the President's instructions has been implemented that Julia Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, should make the application for exemption from the positions occupied by ministers that have not yet submitted such motions for the cessation of parliamentary powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u31	Yes, Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u32	I'm asking you to hand it over, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! I think there was good enough reason in court to clarify what the new circumstances were, because a lot of the co-conspirators stated in the media and publicly that their statements were at the disposal of the Supreme Council that they were writing them. I don't want to conduct a service investigation right now, it's not my jurisdiction, why those people whose safes or offices had these applications didn't pass them on to the regulatory committee. Regarding the head of the Kyiv district administration, I think that his colleagues in recent times would be a little bit inappropriate, because man, indeed, had a trauma, broke his leg, and wrote a statement at the right time. So I'm asking you not to speculate on the name of Eugene Jovtak, a member of the Ukrainian People's Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u34	Yes, please, Valentin Grigorovich. And I'll just say before that, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask my distinguished colleagues not to gossip about what the statements were in the offices and safes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including the distinguished national deputy. If you want, I can do it on my own for these people's deputies, if you claim that their statements lie, write a statement on their behalf and submit it to the committee. And I would ask you not to spread gossip. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u35	Thank you. All the statements that came to the Supreme Council were promptly reviewed by the Supreme Council’s management and sent for consideration by the Regulatory Committee. As for colleague Atroshenko, I would like to inform you of these questions that were raised here: on the third of June, he was deprived of his parliamentary powers by the Supreme Court of Appeal. Yesterday the court considered it, as I said, an application for review, a revocation of the decision under the newly declared circumstances. What are the new circumstances: they are laid out in the judgment that I have here. I read, "On June 3, 2005, Stan was in the hospital, and he didn't know about the case. Having heard the explanation of Atrochenek, the representative of the Supreme Council, having examined the case's materials, the court considers it possible to satisfy Atrochenka's claim." Further approving part: "A statement by Atroshenka Vladislav Anatoliyovich on the review of the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal since 3 June 2005 under the new circumstances to be satisfied. The ruling of the Court of Appeal of Kiev on the third June of this year, according to the statement of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Atroshenka Vladislav Anatoliyovich to cancel." That's the armpit. Therefore, you are invited to accept the ruling that I have already read to you regarding the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Atrochenka, on behalf of his personal claim. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u36	Honourable People's Deputies, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reads: "The permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vladislav Atroshenka." Registration number 7771. [[10:25:42]] For three hundred Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u37	Thank you. So, as I said before, yesterday, the statement made by the national deputy Jovtak Evtika Dmitrovich and the ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal was adopted by the same Court of Appeal on 24 June of this year. Therefore, it is proposed that the decision be taken to terminate the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Jovtak Eugène Dmitrovitch, elected in the one - term constituency number 95 in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Kyiv Region]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u38	For reasons of three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, there is nothing to do in court, there would be no trial to go through, there would be no shame, and the whole government, which has never allowed such unprecedented violations, would not be responsible for all of us if we made one point of view with you -- we would write "persons who are not authorized by court decisions lose all the guarantees provided for by the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy" and dot. I'm going to the Regulatory Committee. Help me. Let's do it. And believe me, on the second day after the appointment, they will themselves write a statement and stand in your queue and look for you. Do this, and we will not be ridiculed in the eyes of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u40	But I think Yuri Anatolyovich is here. Perhaps there are requirements for this, the strict requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine - the Basic Law of Our Activity, the State of All, and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. If the President and the Prime Minister were to clearly enforce them against the violators of these laws, this problem would have long been removed from our Parliament's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u41	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u42	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u43	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u44	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Valentin Grigorovich! I'd like you, first of all, to give the command to put a broadcast on the street, because people are gathered and they want to hear what we're doing. The other one. We can see that the co-conspirators began to get sick. It's not them that's sick, it's the new authority that's sick. She suffers from a disease that violates the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This power is affected by the betrayal of the people of Ukraine. Yesterday she showed it and wants to demonstrate today. Dear Valentin Grigorovich I would like you to name what the new circumstances of the court saw in Jovtak. And I'd like to ask you to tell us what Mr. Prašenko's best man thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u45	The broadcast is already on the street as soon as the proposal has been made. Paul Sulkowski, please, the faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u46	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u47	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u48	Alexander Stoyan, "Regions of Ukraine." Dear voters! Dear government officials! What's been seen in this room for two days is the government, because it's those government officials who were supposed to do the Constitution who reported the laws here, and we don't trust these government officials who have a double bottom. That's why it's the price of entry into WTO. And the price is really a failure to meet the obligations of constitutional ministers, ex-ministers and so on. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Valentin Grigorovich! We know that the President has given an order to the government, to those deputies who work in the authorities of the State to prepare a discharge order. Is there such a determination that Julius Timoshenko himself should have carried out? If you don't know, let Julia Timoshenko answer: is there a decision to release the co-conspirators from state posts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u49	I want to answer the last question right now. I do not know of such a submission on behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, concerning the co-sponsors' ministers, who are the President of Ukraine. So I can't inform you, I think Julia Volodymyrna might say that. Second, on the question of colleague Lechchenka. Dear Volodymira Alexiyovich, on that decision of the Jovtak Court of Appeal, Eugene Dmitrovic. The decision was made on June 24 of this year. And here is June 29, Jövtak Yögen Dmitrovitch, who applied for the annulment of this decision under the new circumstances, and takes note in his founding part of the adoption, notes that after discussing the arguments of the application and examining the evidence of the case, the Court of Appeal considers the application to be satisfactory on such grounds, Volodymira Olexiovich. According to article 347-2, paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, the new circumstances for the review of the court’s decision are essential to the case for circumstances that were not and could not be known to the applicant and to the court on the day of the case. On June 24, 2005, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jóvtík, filed an application for a permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, who was registered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on June 24, the day he was tried for a term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Court of Appeal of Kiev. Thus, the court further points out that under such circumstances, the Court of Appeal considers that the decision of the Kyiv Court of Appeal of 24 June 2005 is subject to cancellation under the new circumstances. In this regard, the court ruled that the decision of the Court of Appeal of 24 June of this year to terminate the terms of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Jovtak Eugene Dmitrovitch under the newly declared circumstances and to appoint him. Under the new circumstances and everything. So I think we can take the proposed draft decision. A statement by the national deputy Jółtjak about the formation of parliamentary powers in connection with his appointment as head of the Kyiv District Administration to the Supreme Council. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u50	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Eugene Zovtjak is put to the vote. [[10:34:48]] For 341 Decision taken. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u51	The proposal is also made in view of the fact that the appeal court’s abrogation was previously overturned as to the permanent termination of the authority of the national deputy, Tkach Roman Volodymirovich. It was canceled yesterday, I repeat. A proposal is made for a draft decree to terminate its mandate in connection with a personal application for parliamentary powers. So it's a decision. I'll explain. By ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal on June 23, this year, the statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council was satisfied. The mandate of the national deputy Tkach Roman Volodymyrovich was suspended for the time being. However, after discussing the evidence and examining the material provided, the Court of Appeal yesterday considered this and concluded that the application was satisfactory for the following reasons. In accordance with article 347-2, paragraph 2, of the second section of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, the new circumstances for the review of the decision of the court are essential to the case of the situation, as has been stated in the decision-making of the previous national deputies, which could not and could not be known to the applicant and the court on the day of the hearing. According to the material of the case, I am reading this from the court's ruling, from the materials of the case on June 3, 2005, the Ukrainian national deputy Tkac filed an application for an early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, who was registered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 17, 2005. This situation was not disputed by a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Under such circumstances, the Court of Appeal ruled that the decision of 24 June to terminate the mandate of Ukraine’s national deputy Tsak Roman Volodymyrovich should be annulled under the new circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u52	Please sign up, three minutes. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the posters of the violators are now being posted again. So let's just get this out of the way, because we're spending such a valuable time. You're asking us to continue the meetings until 8:00, and we're spending the precious time of the morning meetings on the confrontations that were yesterday, which were yesterday, which are today in this very spot. So I have a proposition -- let's make this clear, vote, but let's ask the Regulatory Committee to make sure that we have all the applications from all the co-sponsors today at the most after lunch. If it doesn't, if it doesn't, let's make the changes to the law after lunch today that I suggest they lose all the benefits that were granted by the Law on the Status of Deputies. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u54	I thank you for setting up such a task. Very clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u55	George Boiko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u56	George Boiko, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Grmira Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u57	Sergei Gmira, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u58	Valentin Grigoryevich, well, first of all, I'd like to find out why there was so much delay? What is it that someone in the Secretariat is blocking this issue or how? And secondly, I want you to explain to me, well, how do you know, the decision of the court. The Court recognizes that the circumstances were unknown to the claimants. This was the case in which the claimants wrote an official statement. That is, in fact, the court recognized that two heads of the district administration were in a state of blackout. They wrote a statement and did not know that they had written it. I have a question: can such heads of administration, who are judged by the court to be mentally insane, be held in such positions? It's natural for you and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u59	Thank you. Well, under what circumstances they wrote the application, the committee did not investigate. This is none of our business. But what I'm trying to say is that, Sergey Petrovich, you asked: Why did the statement made by Tvač Roman Volodymyrovich on June 17th come to the committee on June 30th? That is, after the Court of Appeal has decided to terminate its parliamentary powers in due course. So this was a mistake made by the Supreme Council apparatus, and a timely application was made for consideration by the Committee of Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. And in this case, I think the appeal court did the right thing. He corrected our mistake and decided to cancel his approval on June 23, this year. I would like to support the decision to terminate the term of office of the Weaver Roman Volodymyrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u60	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Roman Tkač is put to the vote. Registration number 7777. [[10:42:10]] For 350. Decision taken. Announcing the question of the election of individual national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] And please, Valentin Grigorovich, for the rest of the co-conspirators, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u61	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We asked the MP to inform us what the state of affairs is with the co-conspirators. The committee also considered yesterday a statement made by the national deputy, Dustenka, who came to the head of the Committee on Rules rather than the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee therefore decided yesterday on the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and the committee adopted the following decision: first, to invite the Ukrainian People's Deputies to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy in accordance with the requirements of article 81 of the Constitution and part one of the first section of the Fourth Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Second: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine if such a statement is made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Dustenk, in order to consider and support it. I'm here to help you identify the head of the committee. Such a statement to the committee has not yet been made. Next, next. Well, I'm finishing up the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u62	Well, give me a chance to get some information. Dear colleagues, can the head of the committee finish the speech? Can I finish the speech? Let me finish the speech, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, apart from my colleague Prašenka, today's materials on the case of the National Associates are in the Court of Appeal: this is about Steckova Taras Stepanovich, President of the National Television Company of Ukraine. The court has already tried this case three times and has not reached the conclusion of the decision. The discussion was postponed to July 14. Topoloov Viktor Semenović, first Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. The court has sat four times on this issue three times, and the hearing is scheduled for the fifth time on July 15. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. The trial was held three times, and the fourth trial was postponed to July 14. Boyko Viktor Alexiyovich, Head of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve On three occasions, the court met with this problem, and on July 15, the fourth hearing of his case was postponed. Tarasyuk Igor Grigorovich, Head of State Affairs. On three occasions, the court came to the hearing and the fourth trial was carried over to July 15. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration. Three times the court has considered the matter, and the fourth will be on July 14. Shevchenko Vitaly Fedorovich, head of the National Council for Television and Radio. The court considered the matter twice, and the third time, it will return to the case on July 14. So I read to you, called the names of the eight national deputies. In addition, according to the rulings of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, the materials submitted to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding his appeal to the Court of Appeal for the suspension of parliamentary powers in the course of the trial of the following national deputies: Bondarchuka Sergey Vasilovich. So far, a lawsuit has been prepared, I believe, in the Head of the Supreme Council on the signature. This is the Director-General of the State Company for Exports and Imports of Military and Special Purpose Products and Services. Gurvitz Edouard Josephovich, city head of Odessa; Mr. Morozov Alexander Valeriyovich, head of the VAT Government, State Savings Bank; Pavluk Mikola Pantelemonovitch, head of the Odessa Seaport The committee will consider the issue of how to reconcile the fees. the posts, please excuse me, and on June 29th, an appropriate submission was sent to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for his appeal to the Court of Appeal. It is likely that the materials are being prepared for submission to the Court of Appeal. And yesterday, on behalf of the committee, I signed, and we sent a letter asking us to determine on which position the Head of the National Expert Commission for the Protection of Social Morals, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, who is approved for this position and has the status of Minister of Ukraine. That's what these national MPs are all about. And for the full information, yesterday the committee also considered statements by the national deputies of Baloga, Oliynik, Stoyk, Teryochina, Artemenka regarding the early termination of their powers after the decision was taken by the Court of Appeal of Kiev. So, first of all, with regard to Artemenko, Baloga, Oilynik, Stoyk and Teryokhina, these decisions have gained legal strength, and the committee has no opportunity to consider their claims. Therefore, the decision we made was as follows: statements by Ukrainian national deputies Artemenko, Baloga, Oliynik, Stoyk, Teryochina regarding the early termination of their powers. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u64	Thank you. Just a minute. I just want to make it clear that Victor Pinzenik and Morozov just told me, handed over statements, now they're registered and transferred to the committee. Victor Pinzenik and Morozov. As far as Bondarchuk is concerned. He's already on his way to court. As for Gurvice and Pavlück, these documents will now be signed, they are already processed, paid, and will be sent to court today. Morozov wrote a statement. What questions, fellow believers? Please don't let us discuss this. From the procedure, from what? We have concluded our consideration of the matter. Please, three minutes of motivation and no procedure. Please sign in for three minutes. Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is extremely long and persistent in the matter of accomplices. Anyone speaking today has forgotten our recent history. For example, one head of a large trade union body sat in this room, matching these positions, quietly conducting himself for years. Like one of the mayors who has not been re-elected and is still a national deputy. As well as one Deputy Prime Minister, the prime minister, who was also the co-ordinator, as well as the national deputy. It's all quickly forgotten. Then the Social Democrats were not hung crying, they were protected as soon as they could. [[United]] Satsuk, who belonged to their faction, was at the Ukrainian State Security Committee for a long time, and was combining the position with the National Deputy, manipulating court decisions, as you know, after he was released from this room. Then, again, no one raised their tears, hung them on the walls, and so on. So let's stick to the same standard as the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u66	Vladimir Yeshchenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u67	This is the Communist faction. Please hand over Simonenko to Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u68	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, representatives of our Ukraine and other political forces who have come into power today are afraid to leave the mandate of a national MP because they do not, in fact, believe in that authority. And, of course, they are trying to maintain their mandate of integrity so as not to be responsible for crimes and atrocities. That's a first. Secondly, Vladimir Mihajlovic, in fact, has received a statement from Prashenko. In fact, the Committee considered it. It's just a formality. And I propose that the question be put to the vote, that the vote on the polls should be voted on, and that the formalities should already be implemented in accordance with the need to simply rewrite the statement. The statement was received, considered and introduced for the session of the Supreme Council. And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's ask ourselves a question. Today, the Minister of Finance forces the courts not to use it on appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, Peter Prashenko has made a statement. If the committee makes such a decision, it will make a draft decision, and I will put it to the vote. Please have the committee bring it in. The committee will bring it in, I'll set it up. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u70	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u71	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u72	Alexander Stoyan, former professional manager. I am surprised that my colleague does not know the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. I was in charge of the Federation of Social Affairs, and so was my colleague at the Fatherland Party, headed by trade unions, as well as political party leaders leading political parties, and I didn't get a salary. And that's why when I was wrote to the regulatory committee that I'm meeting two positions, the regulatory committee rejected this proposal because I had one representative mandate. And now I want to say, Julia Volodymyr is for you. Julia Volodymyr, listen, please. What's happening in the hall for two days is that your ministers are responsible, and they have expressed such a critical negative reaction to the fact that they have not voluntarily given their authority and therefore this opposition. However that may be, we would have passed many laws long ago. And today, we've lost an hour to dispossess the co-conspirators. Order there, please, and carry out the President's mandate, prepare the order for others to be released from state office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u73	Time's up. Names weren't called. Please, please. Dear colleagues, there's no regulation when they call one faction or another, they call it a name, they call it a replica, let's go by the book. There is a question about the election of individual Ukrainian national deputies as members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u74	Thank you. The committee reviewed a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Ivanovich of Corchin, a member of the Chamber of Deputies of "Our Ukraine", on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account the repeated appeal of this national deputy and his desire to work on the committee, our committee has decided to support the application and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of the People's Republic of Korčinsky Anatoli Ivanovic as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u75	A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Korchinsky Anatoly, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the Rules, the MP's ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council is submitted to the vote. Registration number 7589. [[10:56:49]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u76	The committee also considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Dawimuka Stepan Antonović, a member of our Ukrainian delegation, on a re-examination of the draft decision of the Supreme Council to elect him as a member of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. The committee decided to support the application of the national deputy Dawimuka and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return to the draft decision of the Supreme Council on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Dawimuka as a member of the Special Monitoring Commission for the privatisation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u77	The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Stepan Dawimuka as a member of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization is put to the vote. Registration number 7665. [[10:58:17]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u78	The committee also considered a statement by Ukrainian national deputy Mordovac Leonid Mihajlovich, a member of the Socialist Party’s parliamentary faction, on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. In view of the fact that the calculated quota for today's parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine on the parliamentary committees is 1.1, and the Supreme Council Committee on State Building is already working as one representative of the faction, the Ukrainian national deputy, Dashutin Grigory Petrovich, i.e. the quota used, decided not to support Ukraine's national MP Mordovac's claim to elect him as a member of this committee. And you, dear fellows, be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u79	In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the first proposal to elect a Ukrainian national MP Mordovian as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[10:59:54]] For-151 The decision is not taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u80	Thank you. The committee also considered a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Mr. Anton Matviyovich, a member of the "Our Ukraine", on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fight against organized crime and corruption. Given that the calculated quota, by the way, is a deputy, particularly the faction "Our Ukraine" on the committees is 3.8, and in this committee, for today, three national deputies are working from the specified faction, including Strtović, Tkalenko and Trofimenko, which is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Russian People's Deputy and to present a draft decision to the Supreme Council on the election of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Anton Matviyovich, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of organized crime and corruption. I'd like to make a statement. What? Please sign in. Sign up for three minutes, please. It is clear that a person should work on one of the committees. That's a question for you. Please, Stack's Taras, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u81	Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u82	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u83	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Valentin Grigoryevich, I would like to ask you, if this question has been studied, then to answer, if not studied, I think, study it and then provide information to our colleagues. Well, let's say we have information in the faction that it may have been unbiased, that in its time a comrade or Mr. Rużicki had been detained in a detention facility for various acts there, had been there for several months, accused of having committed unlawful acts because of the fact that documents had been written or facilitated by various groups to write documents, including false data and so on and so forth. It is today going to the Committee on Organized Crime. If this is unbiased information, let us then get our colleague out of it, if he deserves to be examined, let us consider and exclude that we have in the Organized Crime Committee those who created it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u84	Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u85	Answer — Will There Be Any More?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u86	That's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! Well, about that kind of information, she's not on the committee. As we discussed this issue, we were only guided by the materials that were presented to us, in particular, this, well, firstly, the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council to address this issue; and secondly, the statement by the Head of the Supreme Council directly of the People's Parliament of Ruzick, his personal, and agreed with the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine" Martinenkom, and also agreed with the head of the committee where he wants to work, that is, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption Stretovich. That's what we came out of. And taking into account the additional non-use of this fraction of their quota on the parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u88	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Dear colleagues, what I've just heard in the Chamber about this national MP, it certainly needs study, it's clear. But I want to talk about something else here. Remember, in the presidential election, two factions spoke most loudly about the protection of social rights -- the Fatherland, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and the Yushchenka. So if, today, two Ukrainian national deputies from Julia Volodymyrna are working on the Committee on Social Policy, and they work well, and Uncle's as secretary, and Biruk, then from "Our Ukraine" to the Committee on Social Policy there is no delegation of any Ukrainian national deputy. That's how you applied for positions on this committee! None of them work there, all of them try to go to any other committee. It's strange and suspicious to me how sincere the "Our Ukraine" Block is in protecting the social rights of our citizens -- their electorate and the fulfillment of the promises that have been made on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, let us now ask Ruzick Anton Matviyovich. Please, the microphone. Because the last name was the Russian candidate. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u91	The Russian Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Thank you for the word. Indeed, in 1994, I, as deputy director of the State Service for Combating Economic Crime, defended Ukraine’s interests and solved criminal crimes, and in truth, it was smuggling that had been exported from Ukraine beyond Poland and Germany. In connection with this, the services were provoked and the documents were fabricated, and for that reason I was really arrested, but in the process of long and boring investigations, further experiments were determined that there was absolutely no crime in my actions. And on this issue, both the court and the prosecutor's office said, and the Attorney General confirmed it. As far as I was concerned, I was closed to the right of paragraph 6 of paragraph 2. After that, I was reinstated in the internal affairs offices and continued in the ministry. And all of you know that if there's a 6-to-2 case with respect to a person, that means a person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u92	Yes, Your Honor, I think we should leave because the National MP wrote a statement, expressed a desire to work on the committee, so I'm putting to the vote a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Anton Ruzick as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of combating organized crime and corruption. [[We're not investigating organs.]] [[Registration number 7782]] [[11:07:35]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u93	And lastly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Yesterday, the committee was instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Pak Vladimir Petrovich regarding the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. The committee has not been able to address this issue, but I would like to inform you that the calculated quota for our Ukrainian delegation on the committees, as you remember, I have already called it, is today 3.8, and this committee already has six representatives of this faction. So the quota is fully used. And in the previous vote, this statement by the national MP was not supported. The Supreme Council's right to determine today because the calculation quota has been passed on to the faction "Our Ukraine" by the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, and it has one and a half, i.e. 1.5. So the quota for the national MP to enter this faction is. I mean, the Supreme Council makes decisions on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u94	A vote is taken on the proposal to elect a Ukrainian national deputy, Vladimir Pack, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[11:09:47]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the Government of Ukraine's Day in September 2005 on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market is being announced for consideration. From what procedure, please tell me, which procedure? From what? [[From the hall. Don't hear it.]] All clear and clear, the honourable national deputies, that those colleagues we have suspended for the time being, the cards are being deleted. Now, I'm asking you to lock them up, and I'm asking the secretariat to get all the paperwork ready. I'm asking you, there's no procedure, dear colleagues. A draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day is being announced in September 2005 on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine. Please, very briefly, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the insurance market in Ukraine has potential for further development. But due to insufficient legislative and executive efforts, the insurance market still does not accumulate a large amount of investment resources and does not have a significant impact on the process of redistributing gross domestic product to the side of the increase. The insurance sector in the future has to ensure that the gross domestic product is redistributed at the level of the developed countries, in which the figure is 8-12%. In Ukraine, unfortunately, this indicator is much lower. In view of the fact that insurance is one of the sectors of the economy in which major macro-indicators have been growing in recent years, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with a view to developing the insurance market, has adopted Decree No.98 of February 2, 2001 approving the 2001-2004 insurance market programme. In view of the above, I think it is necessary to instruct the Government of Ukraine to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the status of implementation of the Ukrainian insurance market development programme 2001-2004, as well as a further plan for the development of insurance services in Ukraine for the next 10 years. A review of this issue on Government Day will facilitate the search for joint decisions by the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address urgent insurance issues. So, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, please spend this Government Day in September, or next month, 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues. What? Well, please, come on in, three minutes, well, that's clearly organizational questions, we just voted without question. Committee position, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the Committee generally does not object to such action, since the proposed topic is, indeed, important and relevant. But it should be noted that the government of Ukraine has not yet completed its position on such important market problems as taxation of income from insurance, development of civil liability in part of control, the ratio of long-term life insurance and non-state pensions, health insurance, and so on. In addition, several important insurance bills are on the committee’s agenda, although prior approval will have a direct bearing on the plan for the further development of the insurance market. In view of what has been said, the committee proposes, if the authors agree, to transfer such a government day to November of the month when a field will be formed for the systematic analysis of the insurance market.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" was voted on in September 2005. [[Registration number 7377]] Well, that's an organizational question to discuss? [[11:14:27]] For 114 The decision is not taken. A draft regulation on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" was announced for consideration in October 2005. [[on the observance of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the National Hortica Reserve, the cultural heritage of Kiev and other cultural heritage objects of Ukraine]] Tanuk, please report. We'll be on our way. Tanuk, please. Well, it's not a decision. Step right up. Please, please. Who will report on this matter? No, there's a committee decision on this. Now, one minute. I'm not breaking up, we're just asking what to do, and there's no reporter. Please. Please write down the reasons for the vote. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you today not to let go and give a command at an early meeting, we have blocked the full election of judges, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. In the summer, the damage caused by our actions, the material damage, will be tremendous. People will walk, stand in line. Today, we have not questioned the judges. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're distracted by Adam Ivanovich, I'm asking you to come in. We blocked the judge's decision because of the accomplices. That is, because of the failure of our colleagues to perform their duties, we have increased the full functioning of the normal judiciary. I'm asking you to order judges at least tomorrow and make a decision on it so that the country can work with the judges. 300 people are already there. You understand, and all summer then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u100	I ask the Secretariat to now question the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions about the proposal that Yuri Karmazin has just made so that the work of the judiciary will not be blocked through the Supreme Council. Please, Victor Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Sergei Petrovich Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u102	Sergei Petrovich Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, we, both yesterday and today, will accept and accept, we will vote on critical issues. However, yesterday I saw that some colleagues who were apparently not in the hall were voting. I don't know if Mr. Catherinechuk was in the hall, but if he was, what he's getting paid for in the tax administration where he works. The Communist faction therefore requires you to publish a list of all the deputies who are not present for any reason at the meeting. And only then vote in this room. We have reason to believe that many of those deputies who voted yesterday under the WTO law were present only virtually in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u104	I ask the Secretariat to provide me with information about the national deputies who are on board or in the hospital, or who are not present at the Supreme Council for objective reasons. As for the accomplices we've disbarred, I ask you to remove, once again, the cards. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u105	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". I'm talking about the proposed ruling 7447 on Government Day, and it's about Horticia. Dear colleagues, today's decision by the President of Ukraine, and in this draft decision is proposed to extend, a moratorium on the construction of bridges through Dnipro in the Zaporozhye district has been announced. Part of this bridge will pass through Horticia. A number of experts were conducted, scientific and practical conferences were held, round tables were held. There are no threats to the national sanctuary. Another threat is the lack of funding for the National Reserve. If we go to see some of the patriots today, stop building bridges, there will be an extremely difficult situation in Zaporozhye. And one more thing. This city is a strategic object of Ukraine, not a city of Zaporozhye. So this Bill 7447 I propose to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u106	Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? It's the vote on the Ukraine Government Day in October 2005. [[on the observance of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the National Hortica Reserve, the cultural heritage of Kiev and other cultural heritage objects of Ukraine]] Registration number 7447. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:13]] For 196 The decision is not taken. A draft Decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" is being announced for consideration in October 2005 (as to. I want to say that motive comes before the vote. Please. read the Rules. We don't vote. Please calm down. Draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2005 (on the state of implementation of legislation on waste management in Ukraine and ways of improving it. Head of the Mikola Rudenko Committee. Please. That's right, Hennaday Rudenko. Gennady Borisovich, please. The committee’s decision is positive. Please sign up, honorary colleagues, three minutes. We have to predict here, not for October, but for September, to plan Government Day, we don't have Government Day for September. Sign up, three minutes, please. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u107	Dear friends, Vladimir Mikhailovich! We rejected the question, not only of Horticia but also of Kiev’s history and culture, and no one spoke about it. And today, in Kiev, a completely unsanctioned and thoughtless construction begins in the very "child" where the Decade Church was supposed to be. They try to recreate it in new images, and these building triflings of the Kiev city’s head, which every time comes upon existing cultural monuments, are already irritated not only by the images that are understood in this matter but also by the world’s society. I have dozens of references from people who insist on stopping construction today in Mikhail Square, on the streets of Vladimir in a place where it is predicted that there was a Decade Church, in many other places. So those hearings that were about September, I'm asking you, let's go back to that question. We will consider not only Horticia, but also the preservation of the cultural and historical environment in Kiev. This is a very important question, and this concerns a large number of people today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u108	Mikola Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u109	I'd like to give Baburin a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u110	Sergei Babourin, microphone, please. Alexi, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u111	The Communist faction, Zaporozhye. I am grateful to those deputies who did not support this draft decree because if they supported it, they would really have put the cross on the bridges. Bridges were long ago when funds were allocated in Soviet times, but the predecessors of today's “Our Ukraine” appeared who decided how to build a bridge: along or across. As a result, there is no bridge. On 4 June, President Zaporozhye visited. As a tourist, he drove across a clean bridge when there was no transport, and he said, "No, nothing to build, no smoke to remove from the factories," he turned around and left. This is the decision of the Head of State. So the bridges are needed by Zaporozhye as air.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u112	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u113	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I am very offended, of course, that this is the issue of waste that we have put to the back of our lives and that we are looking at the problem that we have already voted on. Indeed, the problem is very serious. It is necessary to hold these parliamentary hearings and consider this issue. Because today the cities we live in have literally been polluted by debris. There are virtually no recycling plants to date. The system that works in this direction is not. The funds that go towards environmental payments are spent on a scheme that is not understood to date: how they go. The Cabinet of Ministers is considering today the proposal: to increase environmental payments by 2.4 times. It's a road to nowhere. If we don't put things in order, we're just going to kick in the back of it, we're not going to make any sense how, I don't think, we're going to make an order in this respect. Therefore, a very important, necessary issue needs to be included in the agenda from- and a single, targeted model: what we will do in the waste country. Otherwise we'll turn our country into one big dump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, there's this proposal: to make a point -- the committee doesn't deny -- that the government's day is to be held in September months, because we don't have a government day scheduled for September, and to make appropriate adjustments by date. Is there no objection? And with this in mind, to put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Government Day of September 2005, registration number 7283. Question: "The state of enforcement of legislation in the field of waste management in Ukraine and its ways of improving it." Please vote. [[11:25:47]] For 350. Decision taken. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings "Cooperation of Ukraine and Germany on Ukraine's path to the EU" is now under review. A ticket from the procedure for dealing with this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u115	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you are in constant violation of the Rules and do not give your word according to procedure. You admitted yesterday that you acted outside the Rules and yesterday, as if under the Rules. You told us all the card holders were blocked. Take a look at the last vote, the cards of the unblocked accomplices of Caterinczuk, Steckov, Morozov, Pinzenika, Dusty and Topolova. You're deceiving the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to explain that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I thank you for having a good memory, but I would like to keep my mouth shut, for I said so. Blocked cards of those who are either deprived of the court or deprived of the Supreme Council's decision. And I would have asked all over Ukraine not to burn me. I'm just asking you to pick up the transcript and look. I want to say again, they're not deprived of the Supreme Council, I have no right. Dear National Deputies! Please. I'm begging you! Honorable colleagues, don’t blame yourself, for everyone can make these accusations. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do anything to make the order. Believe me. Well, thank you for helping me with this. Yes, please, from the Committee of Oleg Zarubinski. In short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on European Integration shares the opinion of the drafters Vasil Onopenek and Mikola Onichuk that Germany, one of the leading countries of the European Union and the world as a whole, is making considerable efforts to foster cooperation between our countries of economic, political, humanitarian, and support the integration, Euro-integration aspirations of our nation. As reported, and as noted in this project, earlier in May of this year, the German Parliament held a Day of Ukraine. Obviously, the Supreme Council cannot but respond to such a move by the German Parliament, so the Committee considers it possible to hold parliamentary hearings in November 2005 on cooperation between Ukraine and Germany. In view of this, we propose to adopt as a whole the draft Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "Cooperation of Ukraine and Germany on the road to the European Union" introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Onopenko and Onischuk. The Committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, we believe that in the future, the practice of holding parliamentary hearings on cooperation with each individual country is ineffective. It may be more appropriate to use the format of committee public hearings for such things. In this case, in the light of the above circumstances, we propose to support the authors of the project with regard to the conduct of these hearings and to vote in general as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Now let Onopenko speak before the vote with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u119	I thank Mr. Oleg Zarubinski for his support for the initiative of the Committee to hold parliamentary hearings on 16 November in the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of cooperation between Ukraine and Germany on Ukraine's way to the EU. I would like to remind you that we have twice held such hearings in Germany both this year and last year. And that's where they went extremely actively. Relations with Germany are developing in every direction: in the economy, in social policy. I would say that both the Civil Code and our legislation, we work together with German colleagues and scientists. So this is really, in the order of exclusion, as Mr. Oleg said, let's hold parliamentary hearings, because there are no options other than parliamentary hearings. Well, maybe even at the committee level. Therefore, there are suggestions: to support the draft decision made by our Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u120	Please write it down for 3 minutes. Please put your name on the board. Yuri Karmazin, then Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I fully support the idea of holding such a hearing, but the negative experience of yesterday's 800 people when there came in, and there were 300 of the educational problems, shows that obviously parliamentary hearings should be done in Parliament, not in Parliament's Hall. I mean, the committees. And that's what the Committees Act says. Since then, the second phase may already be in the Supreme Council Hall. This is absolutely, we have to come to this, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. And I'd like us to come to this and stress that I'm going to vote for this project. And I want to go back to the judge's question. Although Volodymyr Mikhailovich, those who should not be summoned, give the command that we decide to release the judges. This economy of the budget will be serious, those who have already reached deadlines. Let's put it in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u122	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u123	Vladimir Novak. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u124	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u125	Simonenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we will support the development of both multilateral relations and bilateral relations with one or another State, with the peoples. And we will do everything for development, but a mutually beneficial relationship for Ukraine. What is the problem here today? First, speaking of Germany, like other countries, the Supreme Council has not yet recognized the principle of internal and external politics, they are not simple. It's different. Very many countries and all of us in Europe today will have the desire to offer tomorrow with a country or a country. This may not contribute to the development of relations with other nations but may harm them. So I would suggest today that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carry out its mandate to improve relations. With regard to, let us say, our politics, we must first establish the basic principles of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on "Cooperation of Ukraine and Germany on Ukraine's path to the EU" is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7626]] Please vote. [[11:33:59]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I made a mistake, since the third was recorded for the performance, there was another minute, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk. Microphone. We didn't make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u127	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you certainly missed. Thank you for giving me your word. We've got to back it up. If you revote, the Socialist faction will support the ruling. I'd like to address Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, Vice Prime Minister from Tomenko's humanitarian affairs. For the past four months, two newspapers from the State Budget have not been funded in Bukovina, nor have employees from the Zori Bukovina newspaper and Concordia, who have been paid. These are Romanian-speaking newspapers, dear friends. I get a call from these groups daily, journalists: why do we not have about tens of thousands of dollars to get these people paid on time to get these publications out. 40 percent of the Romanian population in the region is looking forward to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u128	Let us go to the chapter for inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. What? No, I understand. There's something Melniczuk is saying. Yes, Cibenko, please, Peter Stepanovich. Yes, please sign up for three minutes. Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u129	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. I understand that the problem of SAT is sacred. And many of my colleagues today, apart from the problem of the WTO, see nothing. But in Ukraine today, 2.7 million people are disabled. Last week, I asked you to get into the agenda of the day, Bill 7332 on Rehabilitation Centres in Ukraine. It was done. But for unknown reasons, this bill has been thrown out of the agenda today. It is supported by four committees, supported by the Burjak Preparatory Committee, supported by the Ministry of Finance. I insist, 2.7 million disabled people were thrown out of the agenda, not my bill. I urge him to be considered in this consideration today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u130	Please give this bill. If we work properly, we will, we will consider this Bill 7732. Please sign in. I asked you to sign up, dear colleagues. Oh, no. It's three minutes before anyone logs in. Let's work, because that's all there is to it. Ulyanchenko Vera Ivanovna. Petrenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u131	I would like to take the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u132	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u133	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you as Head. Please explain, however, the enormous national significance of Bill 7049 on amber, which has already been submitted dozens of times to the Supreme Council. This indicates that a group of national deputies is lobbying for their own interests. Who do we have that's so great that you're contributing? More than a dozen times in this session were considered. You're stealing time for an agreement, so let's say who wants only their own profit, not their own. I'd like to know who this is, Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm sorry, well, I'm talking to you, who are we that's so special that you're contributing? More than ten times the same amber bill is submitted to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u134	I want to put it this way: if you look at the transcripts of how many people are performing, it turns out that I'm contributing more to all of you. I'd like to say I'm not pushing anything. And you know who's in charge of our meeting schedule, Peter Mikolayovich, I want to say again. Please, field. I would ask you, don't get it, methodically don't try to get me, let's work. Victor field, Julia Timoshenko's block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u135	Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u136	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u137	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies, I would like to ask everyone to return to the question of parliamentary hearings on cooperation with Germany on matters. Only nine votes were needed. Some of the socialists also support it. This question needs to be resolved. It's on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u138	Gaddaecki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u139	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u140	Joseph of Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here indeed in connection with Melniczuk's conversation with you, we did not vote, our faction supports this bill and, of course, with our support he will win the required number of votes. So I'd like to ask you to re-examine the 7626th Bill of Parliamentary Hearings of the cooperation of Ukraine and Germany on Ukraine's way to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u142	The honourable national deputies, the authors of the project and the committee suggest that we listen to the agenda of the "Cooperation of Ukraine and Germany" and put a dot. With this change, I'm putting the vote to a vote on the return to the draft resolution on parliamentary hearings of "Ukraine and Germany's Cooperation", and a dot. Registration number 7626. Please, here comes the vote. [[11:40:59]] For 261 We have returned to the consideration of the matter. I am voting on the draft decree on parliamentary hearings of cooperation between Ukraine and Germany, registration number 7626. Well, here comes the vote. The motive was already in this regard, Peter Mikolaiovich. [[11:41:27]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to put in order of the day and make a decision on a draft decision to improve the wages of rural, rural, urban heads. Registration number 7768. Well, if you'll excuse me, dear colleagues. Well, please. What is the reason for such excitement? Well, it's okay, we've got work to do. I beg you all to take your seats, dear fellows! Dear National Deputies! I want to talk to those who include this sound. We will help you to see how this affects your health. Think of the people! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on Improving Payments for Rural, Rural and Urban Heads, registration number 7768. Please vote. The vote is coming, vote, please. Vote please! Vote please! [[11:44:05]] For 218. Dear colleagues, let's vote! I put the vote -- look at the board, it's written on the board -- on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Vote, please! Vote! There's a vote coming. Vote please! [[11:44:47]] For 297 The question is included. I put it to a vote: the adoption of the draft Decree as a decree, registration number 7768. Please vote. [[11:45:12]] For 317 Decision taken. It's been decided. It's being announced. It is up to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Business Act, registration number 7049. [[on amber production]] Please vote. [[11:45:51]] For 293 Decision taken. The question is included. Chersun's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u143	Mikola Shershun, National Party. Honourable National MPs and Honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, the drafting of this bill is prompted by the urgent need to address the problems that have arisen in the drilling process. Private individuals and various types of entrepreneurial structures, using easy access to the floors of amber, the remoteness of these plots from populated areas, the area covered by forests, are carrying out massive looting of amber without the development of appropriate permits and licences. According to article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Entrepreneurship, amber is allowed only to state enterprises. Citizens. They want to get a proper permit to produce amber and work, but by law they're denied it. We push our own citizens to break the law because the amber mine is sold to fraud and smuggled abroad. Experts estimate that only in the Klesov Strait there are more than 80 tons, Verne, more than 17 tons. The government’s amber production is about 2.5 tons and is being realized for the jewelry industry at an average price of 410 pounds per kilogram. According to law enforcement agencies in the black market, the price of implementation is the same. So given the opportunity to get a license, private individuals will, I'm sure, turn it over to a state-owned enterprise in Ukrabishtin, and not to middle-level structures on the basis of illegal amber production, its resell abroad loses more than 10 million dollars a year. The adoption of the aforementioned draft Ukrainian law will allow citizens the right to obtain employment, will largely put an end to the smuggling of amber, will provide additional revenue to the budget by deducting taxes and tax collection fees. Please accept the prescribed bill as a basis, and if there are no objections in general, as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u144	Hello, Mother, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u145	The committee supports this law and considers it important and necessary to adopt it. All right, everybody, let's take a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! The committee's report is done, the reporters are speaking. I see there's no need to discuss it. I'm voting on the adoption on the basis of draft Law 7049 amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Business Act, as a basis. [[on amber production]] Please vote. [[11:49:22]] For 319 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 and some other legislative acts, registration number 7653-D, is being announced for consideration. Ludmila Pavlovna's wife, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you very carefully to hear all the proposals that relate to the amendment of the State Budget Act, because they have a significant impact today on the development of our country's economy. Taking into account the previous discussion at the Committee on Budget Questions of Bill 7653, which was filed by the Cabinet of Ministers on July 4. We've been working on this bill in detail in our Committee on Budgets. The Budget Committee's working group discussed all the proposed changes, made additional proposals supported at the July 5th meeting and agreed with the Government. As a result, the Supreme Council is being reviewed by a revised and harmonized bill, number 7653-d. The bill proposes that from August 1, this year, oil rents and gas condensate be increased from $300 to 550. At the same time, for a gas condensate extracted from a total of more than 5,000 decks, a salary of 250 dollars is offered. The total amount is the additional revenue of the state budget is going to be 423 million dollars. Where, then, are additional funds planned to be channelled? First of all, it's about solving individual social issues. Just before, the repayment of wages in the last few years for coal workers amounting to 314,8 million dollars; the transfer of social infrastructure items to 11 million units of municipal property; the provision of 14 million dollars to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President; the development of the Ukrainian Children's Ochmatdit Hospital. According to our request, which was confirmed by the decision of the relevant Supreme Council, as well as by the request of the Ministry of Health, 6 million dollars are provided for the purchase of artificial lung ventilation devices for 5 million dollars. In addition, there is a detailed standard for clean buildings that are being built today on the basis of the costs of privatization in Kharkiv. In addition, the local budget rules have been clarified. As you know, local budgets are provided. In fact, the loans that local budgets are able to repay today cannot. And that's why we tried to take them out of this huge burden that was caused by miscalculations, miscalculations in the introduction of the Citizens' Income Tax Act. Therefore, it is proposed that in 2005 average interest-free loans of up to 250 million dollars will be written off. We can say that local budgets today have a huge problem with providing sufficient financial resources. But the committee discussed the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to include this issue in the agenda. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine and some other legislative acts. [[Registration number 7653-D]] Please vote. [[11:53:49]] For 271 Questions are included in the agenda. Please, Homutinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we do not in principle object to the adoption of changes to the State Budget. But there is a reference to tax standards. The Committee on Finance did not consider the tax rules proposed in the bill. So if you're going to adopt this bill, it's just numbers. And the tax rules, as we agreed with the government on the previous vote, would be passed by a separate bill. In that case, the faction "Ukraine" will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of draft Law 7653-D amending the Ukrainian National Budget 2005 Act and some other legislative acts as a basis. [[11:55:55]] For 280 We accepted it as a foundation. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the taxation of rehabilitation institutions for disabled persons and children. Registration number 7332. Please enter. [[11:56:56]] For 178. I built this project. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room and take your seats, because there will be no one to vote for, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] If that's the case, I won't give. This has a negative effect on health. They won't give. That's what I'm saying. We're gonna start working now. Yes, respectable colleagues, two factions made an offer, with the requirements of the Rules to give them a break or to make statements. These are the factions of the Company and the factions of the Socialist Party. Who will act? Is there an Olga Hinzburg? Please let Olga Hinsburg come along. Yes, the factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, the "Regions of Ukraine," who will be speaking? [[united]] Dear colleagues, please! Calm down. Please give Auntie Sussi the right to speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues. I'm not going to read the MP's questions, I'm going to tell you what happened to me, to my family for two days. Yesterday and yesterday, we were surrounded by Berkuta employees, all the law enforcement agencies, including the DAI, surrounded the village of Kovalivka, and yesterday at 18 p.m., when the whole village was being prepared for John Cupal's celebration, a helicopter came down to the school area, where over 400 children were going, and more than 50 Berkut men came out of there, armed, armored, masked, skimming through children, beating the whole fence, crawling through the fence. I want to state that through. There were people in civilian form with the Berkuta employees. It's, I'm sure there were closets who wanted to continue the series after Kirpa and after Kravchenk. And I'm saying as a national MP, they're going to go to the people's MP's residence. I can't make a statement today. I'm asking you to take a break, I'm asking you to put a TV in the hall with a video recorder, and you're going to see for yourself the horrors that are happening in Ukraine. I want you to see where we live in a democratic state. You know, American fighters are resting. Thank you. I'm asking you to support me. Today, tomorrow, I'm someone else. Please take a look and make your decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u153	Yes, distinguished national MPs! As a result of a proposal made by a national MP, I cannot make my own decision to watch the video. I can only do that by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, to prepare, once it's ready, to demonstrate to the people's deputies what they're doing with regard to the national MP. We are, in this case, interested in a national MP. Please vote. [[12:39:07]] For 229 Decision taken. I ask the Secretariat to prepare, and when it is ready. Just a minute. When it's ready, you'll tell me. Calm down, please. [[11:45:12]] For 317 I want to say again: don't direct me! There is the Supreme Council! Please! The Supreme Council made a decision. Now, please. Please, please! Give me the factions, please. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists - 55, "Ukraine" - 50, National Party - 41, Block Timoshenko - 2, SPU - 16, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, "Ukraine" - 0, SDPU - 17, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Afterfractional" - 13. Now Olga Hinzburg, please. At the request of two factions: socialist and communist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u154	Dear national MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, my well-respected voters! I have to go to this rostrum and address you with a problem that arose in the election of the mayor of Konotapa, which took place on the third of July 2005. I want to focus on this problem because soon, in the near future, there will be a new election -- to the Supreme Council. And if the new authority that came in today and declared that they would be conducted honestly, I want to tell you, don't believe it, it's out of dreams, and in fact, Mukacheve and Konotap, you can do the equal sign, Mukacheva and Konotap. You see, today is the week of the election, and with a great victory from my opponent, I won the election of Mayor Konotap. Today, we are again preparing for the Supreme Court to declare these elections invalid, because, first of all, what I want you to pay attention to: first of all, this is the election period, and I have been tried in court as a national deputy from the first hour of the day to 24 hours of the night. At 24.00, I was given only a decision by the court to withdraw me from the election for two main reasons: first, and foremost, is that my card worked in the Supreme Council, and I was holding the election. Confirmed, admitted to court, is the Internet, information from the Internet. And the second question is, on which. The one they blamed me for. This is May 9th I gave war veterans the 60th anniversary of Victory a video recorder that was recorded, so I must have been preparing for the election before then. This was reflected in the court’s decision. The other one. When the territorial commission decided not to hand me over as a city head candidate for election, it was held on Saturday before the election at 3:30 p.m. The territorial commission sat down at 4: 00 p.m. and again did not take me out of the election. Then there was a warning to the court once again. And for the third time, the commission is sitting. But I found happiness in this. The members of the territorial commission, which you might call "this is the people of Ukraine," said "no, we won't give it up" and voted against removing me from the registration. Today, courts are again preparing for the election of the city’s head to be declared invalid, and there are such families that are referred to as participating in this exercise by Prashenko, Catherinechuk, and the head of the Sumu district administration. I mean, I was chosen by people. People you can talk about, the people of Ukraine! They first heard that it was possible to hold a fairer election in the fight against this system. This system was then, it's staying now. But most interestingly, look at the most interesting thing that today’s authorities have been conducting before the elections. Who was held by today’s power of choice. This is my opponent who dropped 15 percent from me, these are the people who worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u155	Just a minute. Ten seconds, complete, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u156	If it's 10 seconds, I'll tell you what. I've been working with all the honest political parties in Konotap, and they're representatives of our Ukraine, the Socialist Party, the People's Party -- all the strength, and they're ready to go out today, unless the Supreme Court's ruling is in my favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Bill 7332 Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you not only to listen to me but also to hear me. Zybenko, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Bill 7332 was voted on before the break. It refers to the normalization of rehabilitation centres and rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities. I understand that today we feel like there's nothing in our lives except the 100, but tomorrow we're going to be ashamed of this vote because it's about the disabled -- the most vulnerable category of the population. The point is that this bill is supported by four committees, it's supported by the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, he was copied from the submission of Vasil Vasilovich Regurecki, deputy minister of finance. There is no problem at all. It'll take, like, two minutes. I am very much asking you to put it into the agenda and vote in favour of this document. I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u159	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I'm betting on the vote, and then we'll come back, I beg you. We will also return to others. Please, from the Assadchev procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u160	Thank you. I support this proposal, but then let's put all the bills that have to be included in the agenda. Let us work for the interests of the State and for individuals and for the interests of the State. I think it'll be fair. That's my offer, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! All these bills are in order of the day, they are. I am voting for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Bill of Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws, registration number 7332. [[on taxation of rehabilitation facilities for disabled persons and children]] Please vote. [[12:46:18]] For 295 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, we have come back to considering proposals for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. The bill, registration number 7332, is now put to the vote in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:46:55]] For 326 Yes. The law is included. "For" - 326. Please, Peter Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u162	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you, dear colleagues, for supporting the inclusion in the agenda of this issue. I would like to say that today's major problem with people with disabilities concerns a complex problem approach to rehabilitation. Today we have made several centres at the level of European standards. And we need to make conditions for their normal cooperation. The committee held a field meeting with a board of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy based on an international clinic in Truskavka, headed by a professor, a hero of Ukraine, Kozjavkin. And he prepared a bill. And once again, it's completely done in detail. What's more, as the author of the bill, I think he could have been accepted in two readings right away, because he's very short. But if it's good will, it's good will from the Supreme Council. So I'm asking you, your honor, to support this bill. Believe me, it's on time today and it's needed by disabled people and children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u163	Yes. Before the vote, please register for 3 minutes. While the recording is coming, please, Rudzkowski. While the recording was going on, Rudzkowski had long been demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u164	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, we certainly need to support this Law. But there are still a number of Laws that need support. The one who, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we voted on the budget. We need to vote in general because it's about the wage for miners. And I'm addressing the national MPs behind Vladimir Mikhailovich's back. Let's not embarrass Parliament, sit in the hall and blow the whistle, as we disgraced Ukraine all over Europe yesterday. Because President PARJE was to speak on the rostrum of the Supreme Council. We say we're Europeans, not savages. We whistled so that he refused and left the hall. Let's not embarrass Parliament and some of the laws we want hurt the economy of Ukraine, they can pass because people don't hear what they're voting for. I mean, I'm asking you to sit in the hall, not blow the whistles, because there's going to be a vacation, you're going to work on it, and let's work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u165	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, surely we must make decisions about the disabled today. In general, the situation of the disabled is very difficult today. But now that you have not discussed it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have included amendments to the 2005 National Budget Act of Ukraine, something that has broken the Tax System Act already in which, because it does not change during the fiscal year, the fact that it is increasing from 6 percent to 7.5 percent even for the capital. It's a queue, a queue of promotions. What seems to be improving the financing of the CFC is going to be reduced by 3.5 million to create and implement a single national voter register, the only electronic information system called the Elections, tells us that it is never possible to do so by Volodymira Mikhailovich. This is the State Budget Act, and there are large and serious mines. So let's do it all the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u167	Given that the bill is proposed to be introduced on January 1, 2006, there are no problems. Please, Sergey Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u168	Please give the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka, director of the Ukrainian Company faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u169	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u170	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, and the faction will vote because it touches the fate and real life today of 2.7 million citizens, among them more than one million children of disabled children from childhood. And when their parents, relatives, and loved ones do not get paid at the same time or at a very low rate, when pensions today are not enough to live when today’s very high price for food, for clothing, when today’s tariffs do not allow them to have an extra penny to support the child. When today prices are very high in hospital facilities, medical supplies, and much more. I mean, when a state doesn't care about a person's life, when a woman and a mother, when they don't protect a child, we have to support and make this decision today about supporting children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u171	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Kirilchuk, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The faction knows that this law must be upheld. But it can only be supported in the first reading, because it is an additional budget expense. And it can't be accepted as a whole. But we, you see, went to meet at the expense of the Communists. Can the Communists also conduct themselves in the consideration of the prime drafts of the WTO that the whole of Ukraine is looking forward to?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a point. I remind you again, look at the ending of the situation, it says that the law has been introduced since January 1, 2006. So this year it's not going to affect this budget. It's about getting us back to the draft. I think there's going to be absolute support now for adoption and budget changes, as a whole, as a law. And let's do our best, we'll find a compromise in the session room. That's why. Neither can this one be accepted as a whole. So that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the adoption of the draft law, registration number 7332 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the taxation of rehabilitation institutions for disabled persons and children. Registration number 7332. [[12:54:10]] For 379 Taking into account such unanimity support and the committee's proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to tell you that there will now be a denial of the adoption of the budget law in the second reading. If you are capable of compromise, compromise! I want decisions to be made. I am voting on the adoption of an entire draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the taxation of rehabilitation institutions for disabled persons and children. Registration number 7332. I know we're going to have human relationships in the session room. [[12:55:00]] For 387 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, during the break there was a committee meeting, which, together with the government, agreed to proposals for a draft Law amending the State Budget Act 2005. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully to the transcript. Please, please. Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, national MPs! We agreed to remove the principled issues that apply, first, to subjects of entrepreneurial activity. In the bill, the government once again suggested that attempts should be made to eliminate those entrepreneurs who could rent property. We agreed to withdraw those positions. That's the first one. That is, do not touch subjects of small business. Second, do not touch the tourist industry, that is, leave the taxes that are in place today. And thirdly, we're talking about oval promissory notes. Allow the Cabinet of Ministers to set up groups of goods that can use a simple system of promissory notes, that is, a simple system, not an avalanche, but a simple one. These positions are consistent with Mr. Pinzenic. And the request to confirm these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u175	Does the government support these positions? Victor Mikhailovich, please speak for the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u176	Yes, we confirm, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is a request for inclusion of standards relating to a state mortgage facility that guarantees 10 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u177	Let's deal with one. Dear colleagues! Taking into account the agreed position on the removal of the points relating to the taxation of real estate related to the problems of tourism and billed bills, I am voting on the adoption as a whole of the draft law as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005 and some other legislative acts. Registration number 7653-d. Please vote. [[12:57:37]] For 270. The law is passed. Let's go to "Other Readings." What? Three minutes out of the procedure. Hennaday Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u178	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I urge you to follow the rules of procedure and, regardless of the noise and the noise of the Communist faction, to hold meetings with us to execute today's program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u179	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u180	Dear colleagues! The faction of the People's Party has both stood and stood in the position that any debate must be resolved in a civilized manner. And what we are, in fact, amusing the whole country and the whole world today, is also insane. People, we did promise people to work with you when we were elected. So let's settle the discussion, vote, make the arguments. And this, if you'll excuse me, is a rude, completely unacceptable, unintelligent resistance. This is insane, no matter who advocates it. Let's work! People expect us to make the decisions we need. We have now voted in favour of persons with disabilities, now we have voted in favour of budget changes. What did the country do to make us do this? Then again, I would like to say and call on you: let us act in a healthy and responsible manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u181	Vladimir Levcun, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u182	Pass the word to the school, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u183	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand there will be no hearing in this noise, but I hope you will. I'm going to propose to put you up, because there's still no compromise to this criminal Communist party, so I'm going to propose that you now put in first-line laws on the WTO that touch the WTO, because there's no other way out of the situation, because there's still going to be sessions today and tomorrow, and no matter how much we keep going. Because Russian agents who use all possible means are doing everything they can to stop Ukraine from moving to the World Trade Organization. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put to the vote in the session room questions about the extra review of the laws that touch on Ukraine's entry into the WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u184	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u185	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine today decided to support 20 government bills, four bills submitted by the President of Ukraine. We only have doubts about certain laws regarding the entry into WTO, we have our own principled position. But let's unlock Parliament's work, let's adopt those bills that don't call the national MPs into question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u186	The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Rates for Seeds of Certain Oil Crops (as regards the gradual reduction in the rate of export duty) has been announced for consideration. Yukhnovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u187	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee did not hold its meetings or consider the draft Law. At the same time, I would like to comment on the draft Law adopted in the first reading, principle. Chapter 2. I'm paying attention to Mr. Teryochin, Mr. Minister of Economics. Section 2 "The term of entry into force of the law." In my opinion, it would be appropriate to write as follows: "This law takes effect after Ukraine has acquired full membership in the World Trade Organization." Thank you for your attention and once again, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has not held its meeting and has not considered this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the rates of export duty for the seeds of certain types of oil crops. [[on the gradual reduction in the rate of export duty]] . Number 5200-2. Please vote. [[13:04:00]] For 231 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! We agreed on two issues under the bill. First. Remove 150 million euros from the non-resident insurance company. And second of all. Eliminate restrictions on non-resident insurance companies to work in the compulsory insurance market. In view of these two positions, the committee agrees to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u190	I'm voting on the second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[for non-resident insurance companies]] 7564-1. [[13:06:26]] For 245
ParlaMint-UA_2005-07-07-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council. At the meeting of the Conciliation Board, decisions were made. First. Instruct the Committee on Rules and Ethics to hold a meeting during a recess and decide on the deputies who have submitted applications for credentials. The other one. Consider the continuation of the plenary session by 9 p.m. And the third. Consider the bills in order of arrival. If there are no committee decisions, we postpone consideration of these documents. If there are documents, we put ad-hoc to the vote that the Supreme Council has agreed to consider. If the Supreme Council doesn't agree, we don't consider them. Understand? Committee Assignment: Consider the matter. The other one. Please prepare for the vote. Who's in charge of continuing in plenary today to 21 hours. Please vote. Please vote. [[14:03:06]] For 235 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. Members of MPs and factions, please meet me in my office.
