ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the “Council” system, we register. [[10:00:54]] Registered -401 There were 401 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 of the Supreme Council Rules Wednesday we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Please apply, and in the meantime I'll make both inquiries and announcements. First of all, let us all join in welcoming our colleague Michael Vasilovich Loboda, who is now 65 years old. Let me inform you about the results of our work on the first day of the eighth session. We discussed 21 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result, 13 laws and three decrees were adopted. One bill and one draft decree were adopted as a basis and three bills were sent for redrafting according to the re-first or re-reading of the second reading. Let me make some interesting announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the change in the name of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” to the name “faction of the political party “The People's Union “Our Ukraine”, the abbreviated “Our Ukraine” on the basis of the decision to meet the parliamentary faction of 6 September of this year. The leader of the faction is Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, authorized representatives – Martinenko, Bespalij, Odynik, Filenko. As many men as I can't say, there's no figure here. They simply renamed the faction “Our Ukraine” to. I got a different name. Ivana Aleksandrovich, only the name changed according to this announcement. Now, here's another one. Now we're going to have to figure it out, because there's another announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, articles 4.2.1, 4.2.2 of the Rules and Minutes of the National Assemblys of the People's Deputies of Ukraine since 6 September, I inform of the formation of the faction “Our Ukraine” of the Ukrainian People's Movement's Movement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. The Ukrainian People’s Movement is made up of 14 Ukrainian national deputies. People’s Deputy Koval Vijacheslav Stanislavovich was elected Head of the Ukrainian People’s Movement. The authorized representatives elected were the national deputies of Koval, Kendzior, Kostinuk, Zjijenova, Tanyuk, Blacksmith, Chubarov, Widow. Accordingly, if 14 national deputies have left “Our Ukraine”. So that's how the numbers went down. I'll give it to you later, Boris Jacobovich, for information when I read all the announcements. But, dear colleagues, I'm addressing Matthew Valentin Grigorovovich, the profile committee. Please take a look at the Rules, for in fact we do have in the Rules there is, unfortunately, no such position as the leader of the faction. There are only authorized representatives. At the same time, we have leaders. What I'm going to say is that according to the orders of the Chief of the Supreme Council, faction leaders are likened to the right to pay for their work to committee leaders. Therefore, it may be wise to change the regulatory standard that governs and authorizes it. How much, you also have to think about it, because the whole faction could be. We had this case, you remember that the whole faction, one faction, was all authorized. So let the profile committee settle this issue. More announcements. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 of the Rules and Minutes of the People's Party Dept. of 7 July 2005 inform that the head of this faction has been elected as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of the fourth call by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jeremeyev Igor Mironović. The point here, your honorary colleagues, is that they made their own decision to elect for each session of their supervisor. Thus, they confirm that such confirmation of the credentials of the previous leader took place. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” and article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Lisina Mikoli Pavlovich, into the membership of the Ukrainian Deputies. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy” and article 4.2.2 of the Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of the Bad Igor Ivanovich from the MP group “Democratic Initiatives” and his membership in the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy However, article 4.2.2 of the Rules informs us of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Anatoly Mikhajlovich, from the MP’s party and its membership in the deputy faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I hereby announce the dissolution of the Democratic Initiative Group. It is composed of only four national deputies to this day. At least it takes 14. “ Democratic Initiatives. ” Yes, please, Bespaly Boris Jakovitch's microphone. He's going to report on the faction's numerical composition. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You gave me this minute according to our arrangements. I would like to inform you that the faction of Victor Yushchenka’s “Our Ukraine ” bloc has not simply changed its name; it has been reorganized. From now on, it is not a faction of the bloc, but a faction of one political party is the National Union of “Our Ukraine. ” And that's in line with the People's Deputies Elections Act, because the political parties that have a 15-number parliamentary factions have to represent their position on the committee. And I also want to record for the protocol, including that from today's number and the People's Movement of Ukraine has a parliamentary faction, and therefore it has a representation in election committees and a faction of the Party The People's Union of “Our Ukraine” is also a faction, well, as well as other parties. That's the meaning of the reorganization, not the change in the name. Because, thank you, the given word and I think this information is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u3	Boris Jakovitch, I'm asking you and Mikola Volodymyrovich to add a personal composition because there have been changes. Yes, my fellow Members, let me now announce the parliamentary questions. The following questions came from members of the national parliament: Stephen HMARI to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Council of Trade Unions. I ask you to vote in favour of this request. Vote. [[10:10:41]] For-137 There weren't enough voices. Do your job, Stepan Ilkovich. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the President of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance Decision No.687 of 3 August 2005 on the approval of the list of sites financed by subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to local budgets for the construction of gas pipelines and gasification of urban areas, particularly rural areas. [[10:11:31]] For 231 Request supported. At least 150 votes are required. Now, if I may vote on the request to the President, we need at least 226 votes. Please vote. [[10:11:58]] For 257 Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine about the removal of Red Riding Hood from his post as Minister of Transport and Liaison for the embezzlement of the Ukrainian nation, the inflammation of international hostility, and the damage to Ukraine’s economic security. Please vote in favour of request. [[10:12:42]] For 186 Request supported. Let's do factions when there's a successful vote. Do you mind? Well, please, by the factions. “Our Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 55, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 40, People’s Party – 17, Block Timoshenko – 17, Socialists – 4, Ukrainian People’s Party – 2, “Ukraine” – 3, Social Democrats – 19, “Democratic Ukraine” – 18, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, “Democratic Initiatives” – 3, “Postfraction” – 6. Now I'm putting to the vote a motion for a request from the President. [[10:13:42]] For 213 We need to make it. Georgia Manchulenka to the President of Ukraine on the grounds of non-execution by the Security Service and the Administration of State Protection, paragraph 22 of Article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, concerning the approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a general structure, number, definition of the functions of the Security Service and other established by the laws of military formation. There's little room for that and, by the way, on the Conciliation Council, we talked about that. Indeed, the problem is serious enough. I am voting in favour of this request. Please vote. [[10:14:41]] Z-91 Not accepted. Let's finish and then we. You work at that time. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the delay in the prosecution of the case of the citizen of Kislenko. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of the Supreme Council for the non-restructuring and further privatization of the Odes Porting Company. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for violating the requirements of legislation, preventing the legitimate activities of the National Deputy by officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv region. MICHELLE TO THE Prime Minister on the de facto allocation of budgetary resources to state support for coal-fired enterprises to partially cover the cost of the cost of production. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister on the political persecution of members of the media in the area of Zitomir. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister for the cynical efforts of senior officials of the previous Cabinet of Ministers even now to privatize the territory of the government’s “Vehicle of Water – the Festival of Mezigira” which includes the tombs of the famous Cossacks and the unexplored remains of the shrine of the Ukrainian Cossack – the Inter-Igorian Salvation Monastery.” Vladimir PETRENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the unsatisfactory implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On additional social protection measures for farmers of land rations” in the Sumskie region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for lack of financial resources to carry out the city’s delegated powers. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the water in the village of Vladislavovka Kyrovska district. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the protection of the constitutional rights and interests of citizens in connection with the rise in fuel prices and tariffs, electricity and utilities. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Prime Minister, Minister of Transport and Liaison concerning the eligibility of the air transport licence by the company “Mediterranean Airlines”. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister on the emergency status of the School of Public Education No.67 of the city of Alexandrivsk Lugansk region as a result of the activities of the Head of the Shareholder Holding Company, Skrnaftoftoproduct Lobaška. Anatolysa Rachánské v. Prime Minister, Minister of State for Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Minister of Finance, Kiev City Head for the failure of the President of Ukraine to complete the memorial complex of the victims of the Chernobyl disaster until the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl AES accident. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds for the villages of Leonovka, Gorochowa and Novosilka in the Kagarlic region of Kiev. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister for the definition of a mechanism for military personnel to obtain a loan for the construction or acquisition of their own housing. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of drinking water to the inhabitants of the village of Novotroitské and the Siwask Novotroitsky region of the Hersonian region. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister concerning the protection of the rights of shareholders of the former agricultural society with limited responsibility for the “Amen” of the region of Novovorontsov. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister in connection with the failure to respond to the Deputy Minister of Defence. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Emergency Affairs and Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the prolonged violation of the constitutional right to work and its payment to the members of the Viennese Regional Interdisciplinary Expert Committee for the establishment of a causal link between diseases, disability and death with ionizing radiation and other harmful factors resulting from the accident at the Chernobyl AES Ministry of Health, ensuring the proper functioning of the commission. Vladimir WOJŠA to the Prime Minister on the reasons for the failure to implement the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Law on Education for Educating Teachers, Science and Other Categories of Teachers, and Article 40 of the Law on the State Budget for 2005. Mr Vladimir ĆENKA to the Prime Minister on the construction of a residential building in the town of Talne Cherkas region. Anatolya Rachánské to the Prime Minister for failure to comply with the State’s obligation to provide computer equipment for a public education school in the village of St. Sacké district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Igora Jeremeyeva to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 20 July 2005 No.639 on the approval of the list of sites funded by the State Budget grant to local budgets for socio-economic development of the regions, the implementation of prejudice measures and the prevention of technological disasters in the housing and utility economy and other social property accidents and investment projects in 2005. Vladimir YAVORIYSKA to the Prime Minister for his efforts to transform the government's House of Rest “The Desert of Vodice” – the Medighiriya ceremony and more than 300 hectares of territory into a “Close Zone” where, in cynical form, the state protection even allowed the priests, the national deputies, the head of the district government and the citizens to worship and bow down to the dust of the glorious Cossacks. Mr Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Prime Minister regarding the report by the media on the illegal actions of citizen Arutunov and the reality of his certification as Assistant Prime Minister. Victor HORBAČOVA to the Prime Minister on the situation at the state shareholding company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place at the Sabina factory in Kirovograd. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Prime Minister on the collective appeal of former employees of the Child 'Nicopolian Steel Pipes Factory' of the Open Stock Company 'Nicopolsian Southern Pipes' on non-payment of salary debts for 2002-2003. Petra SIMONENKA and Vladimir PUZAKOVA to the Prime Minister for violating the management of the “explerant” of contractual obligations regarding the rental of companies of the “Alexandriaugil” company, which led to a crisis and social tension in the group. Anatolia ORJAHOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Herson District Council on the protection of the interests of the companies of the Foundation, the joint property of the Skadavian District Society. Vladimir ÍŠENKA and Omelyan PARUBKA to the Prime Minister for the requirements of the former employees of the Rizhava Sugar Plant of the district of Cherkas region. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister on the violation by the Cabinet of Ministers of the laws on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine and on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Jury KROWROČKA to the Prime Minister on the activities and methods of teaching in eight branches of Moscow University in Ukraine, particularly in Sevastopol and Chernigov. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board of Directors, Attorney-General, on the verification of the activities of individual officials of the State Tax Administration in the Kharkiv region involved in the corruption of VAT compensation schemes. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister for the non-agreement of purchase prices for sugar beet and sugar wholesale. Alexander HUDIM to Vice-Prime Minister Mikolia Tomenka regarding the disgruntled state of the organization of the 100th anniversary of the Odessa “Education”. Vassil BARTKlV to Vice Prime Minister Mikli Tomenk for the restoration of the Taras Shevchenk Museum in the village of Voržběbá in the region of Sumy. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General for the review of the information published by the ex-minister of Brodski, on the payment by the Russian businessmen Wexelberg and Abramov $50 million US First Assistant to the President of Ukraine, Trelyakow, and the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the possibility of purchasing the Nikopolska Ferrosponi plant. MICHELLE’S attention to the Attorney General for the tragic loss of life and mass trauma as the President of Ukraine ascended to the Goverle. ZARI KATUSHOVA to the Attorney General’s Office for the protection of the Orlando’s unique landscape park. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General for violating the local self-government of the City of Chernivki of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, on the provision of housing for members of the fighting in Afghanistan. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General for illegal export to the customs territory of Ukraine of foreign production sugar. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Attorney General on the falsification of documents, the fictitious transformation of the Vynnicki Hootori-1 Garden Society of the Vinnitsky district, the Vinnitsky district of Vinnitsk, the community organization “United Garden Society of Hutir” and the prevention of delays in the consideration of complaints by fraudulent members of the garden society. Leonida DERKAČA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, for a situation that occurred during the custody of Pavlovrodsk Mesquikkońsk in connection with the closure of the city’s hospital. LUKYANENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of Ukrainian electoral legislation by the commander of the Forces duchess Prince. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General on the legality of the allocation of 1 ha area for individual agriculture in the Butch reserve zone of the “Ocean Elsa” group Vakarcuku. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Attorney General on the return of deposits to the members of the Hměchnica loan association. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Attorney General for violating the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the reform of the agricultural sector in the Novo archangel region of Kirovograd. Jurija KOSTENKA to the Attorney General on the illegality of law enforcement authorities and the inappropriate response to previous appeals by representatives of the public of the city of Ladzhina, Hmělna district on the gross violation of legislation by the city’s head and the leadership of the LADIJEN TEZ. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, for investigating the causes of the death of Plužnikov, in connection with the new circumstances that give rise to the view that she was violent. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Herson District State Administration, for violations of legislation during the decommissioning of land and property of the collective agricultural enterprise “Ukraine” in the region of Belarus. To the Attorney General of the Board of Directors of Internal Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the irregular pressure of the head of the Montenegrin district administration on the Rector of the State University of Lower Gogol. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Health, the Head of the Sevastopol City Administration for the Prevention of Violations of the Constitutional Right to a Safe Life and a Healthy Environment of the inhabitants of the Gagarin district of Sevastopol — the cessation of the illegal construction of a gas station on Sevastopol’s Holy Square. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the procedure for the dismissal of directors of general educational institutions in the Kostopil region of the Plain region. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council to determine the legal basis for the return to Ukraine of more than two hundred and fifty million United States dollars stolen from Ukraine's state budget by former Prime Minister Lazarenko, with the participation of today's Prime Minister Timoshenko, as well as the development of a procedure to prevent the non-refundable for the Ukrainian budget from confiscating these U.S. funds for the U.S. subpoena to the Federal Court in Washington. Anatolia KLIMINA to the Ministry of Defence regarding the completion of construction for military personnel in Dnipropetrovsk. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Ministry of Education and Science for failure to implement the School Bus programme and funding of preschool educational institutions in the Putil region of Cherniewec Region. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of a specialized car to the Killia Central District Hospital. Anatolia NALIVAIKA and Alexander BONDARCHUKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the abuse of the office and impunity of the head of the Redoliman City Council of the Donetsk Region. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Minister for Family, Youth and Sports regarding the state support of talented young people in the field of physical education and sports. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on official confirmation or rebuttal of the information provided by the U.S. judiciary and the U.S. Attorney's Office to the Federal Court in Washington for confiscation in favour of the U.S. state budget stolen from Ukraine by former Prime Minister Lazarus for the participation of today's Prime Minister, Timoshenko, in the amount of over two hundred and fifty million United States dollars. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the opening of an additional bus route for Deaf Kiev. Alexia Corsakova and Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Justice, Head of the Supreme Court, Attorney-General for the Protection of Juvenile Rights. YURIA SIRKA to the Ministry of Health on the provision of insulins for domestic production and the supply of insulins for imports into the Plains region. MIKOLI KRUĆA to the Ministry of Transport and Air Safety on the “Ukraine Mediterranean Airlines” and in particular the Amman Kyiv flight. TO THE Minister of Education and Science, Tamara is involved in a situation in the educational sphere of the Kyiv region of Borispilla. Ms. Alexander Kiselova to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the abuse of office as head of the Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Luhansk district of Pritila. Mary MARKUS to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster of the improper reduction in the states of the Solotvinian Warlord’s Navy of the Zacarpathian Emergency Rescue Squad. Valery MARTINOVSKI to the Head of the State Shareholder Company “Blood of Ukraine”, Director of the State Enterprise “Agreement Agency for the Restructuring of the Debt of Agro-industry Enterprises” regarding the requirements of “Agreement Agency for the Restructuring of the Debt of Agro-industry Enterprises” to TOV with foreign investment “Intertechnology”. JURY OF THE ORBJECTION to the Kiev City Head for the effort of the management of the “Kyivtlopekspoplwacija” by voluntary means to take away part of the music school No.36 of the Obolon Region. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the examination of living conditions and the provision of appropriate social services to the citizen of Llataf. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Head of the High Court of Commerce, Head of the High Council of Justice, on the violation of the laws of the judges of the Zaporez region. Alexander MOROZA to the Head of the Supreme Court for the unconscionable discharge of duties and the abuse of his authority by the judges of the Pecher District Court and the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration for refusing to respond to the request for the restoration of the work of the relay for the inhabitants of the village of Senechev and the village of Vishkov of the Dolin region. Mikoli Komara to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities on the burning of the buildings of the city of Killia and Wilkov Odes region. Yurya BOJKA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on yet another unmotivated increase in the “Severe” tariffs for sending letters and Banderoles. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the liquidation of the Kyiv territorial authority of the State Labour Expertise. Mr. Vasil Sirenck and Mr. Vladimir Lještenka to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Council of Judges, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence for failing to take account of the decisions of the General Assembly of the Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv region when appointed to the post of Head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv region. JURY OF THE ORBECTION to the Kiev City Head regarding the conflict between Kyivrada and citizen Mizetsky in connection with receiving land for a souvenir shop. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court for the unconscionable discharge of duties and the abuse of their powers by the judges of the Pecher District Court and the Court of Appeal of Kiev. [[MUHINE, DASTUTIN, CARNAUH, AND OTHERS]] Jury KRIVORCHKA to the Head of the Board on the verification of activities in the Crimea Autonomous Republic of Alliance for National Reunification, as well as the newspapers Russia Sevastopol and Russian Crimea. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region on the legality of the construction and financing of the former Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Vasil Tkachenko, of the village of Grebeni Kagarlické district. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the head architect of Kiev’s Main Urban Administration, architecture and design of the city’s environment regarding compliance with the construction standards of Kiev. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the chief physician of Kyiv City Sanitary Epidemiology Station for the maintenance of sanitary standards in the building of Kiev. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs for Information Checking on the Abuse of Petra Prashenko in Corruption, which causes schools of economic security in Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova. Igora ŠURMI Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General for the urgent solution of an extremely dangerous water supply situation in Borislav Lvivsk district. The National Deputies of POLICO and the Dry to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine in the conflict around the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrosupial Plant”. The same National Deputies Larissa POLACOVA and Jaroslav SUCHI to the Attorney-General on the need to carry out an examination of illegal actions by officials of the Department of State Executive Services and the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration of Justice regarding the implementation of their illegal decisions by the general meetings of the VAT “Nicopolska Ferrospleni plant” held on 30 August this year in the city of Ordjonikidze. POLICO and DRY to the Attorney General on the actions taken by Judge Radko which distort the title of judge and the violation of the oath of a judge when establishing a resolution on VAT, the “Nicopolian Ferrosphrodite Plant”. Larissa POLACOVOYA AND JAROSLA dry to the Attorney General about the need for verification. conduct a review of the enforcement of the laws by judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal Bondar, Korsak, Korsun, Avdeev High Economic Court of Ukraine Kravczuk, Muravyov, Rogacz in connection with case number 18196 on the recognition of the illegal privatization of VAT “Nicopolski plant ferrospitov”. Gennady RUDENKA, Jaroslav SOCIETY to the Attorney-General on the misconduct of internal affairs officials in the conflict around the VAT “Nicopolian Ferrospoline plant”. Thus, honourable colleagues, all parliamentary inquiries have been announced. The factions. From “Our Ukraine” – 15, factions of Communists – 24, “Regions of Ukraine” – 8, “Social-Democratic Party – 6, “One Ukraine” – democratic., factions of the People's Party – 7, “Socialist Party – 10, “Julia Timoshenko” – 3, “Ukrainian People's Party” – 8, “Democratic Ukraine” – about 12 of what I have read in addition is non-fractional – 4. And so there's about 100 parliamentary inquiries. Please, Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u4	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. My request relates to the fulfilment of the direct requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Article 85, paragraph 22, tells us that Parliament, i.e. you and I, should consider and approve the overall structure and number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Internal Affairs Authority, the Ukrainian Security Service and other military formations established in accordance with Ukraine's laws. This includes the definition and the Department of Public Protection. In the previous government, I received a variety of notes on the review and approval of the number of the BSS and the State Protection Authority. I hope that the time is coming for us to finally, after nine years of the new Constitution, we have fulfilled this standard of the Constitution. I ask you very much to support this question, because this applies directly to matters of national security and defence. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I also support the words of George Manchulenka, and I remind you once again that we discussed this at the last meeting of the Conciliation Council. The head of the profile committee, George Kruczkov, raised the problem. Indeed, this is a constitutional norm. Give it to me. I don't think I see anything here, so to speak, well, double, I'm sorry about Russianism or anything. If we go to the President to speed up the constitutional rules and our laws of directing this, I'm sorry, well, maybe to some extent a formal act to confirm this number. I ask you to vote in favour of George Manchulenka's request to the President for failure to comply with the Security Service and the Administration of State Protection with the relevant articles of the Constitution and laws on the approval of the overall structure of numbers and so on. Please vote. Vote. [[10:41:07]] For 272 Request supported. Let us now vote so cordially in favour of bringing this request to the President’s name. Please vote. [[10:41:30.]] For 324 We've got it. 324, thank you. Stephen Ilkovich Cloud. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u6	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! I think the MPs weren't informed, my first request came to the President about what's going on in the stretching of the assets of the entire property complexes of the former organizations, the social organizations of the Soviet Union that were in the territory of Ukraine. Illegal looting of hundreds of millions of dollars of property. I ask you to support my request in the form of a parliamentary request to the President to bring this property in order. Because he repeatedly addressed law enforcement agencies, particularly the Attorney General’s Office, with specific facts of looting, illegal sales, and so forth. Unfortunately, however, the Attorney General's Office has investigated, but unfortunately there are no results to date. So I ask you to support this parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine and at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let me also support Stephen Ilkovich's argument that, indeed, each of us understands what huge wealth complexes were, the colossal wealth that flows into nowhere. More precisely, we know where, but not for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. I ask your support for the request of Stephen Cloud to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the assets of the former VCRPS and the Ukrainian Council of Trade Unions. Vote. [[10:43:40]] For 257 Supported, 257. Let us vote on this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:44:03]] For 252 Oleg Tagnibok, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Oleg Tajnibok, U.K.A. Freedom. I ask you to return to the vote on my parliamentary request for the removal of Mr. Reddenenko from his post as Minister of Transport and for the instigation of the Ukrainian nation, for inflaming international hostility and for damaging Ukraine’s economic security. Colleagues, you and I are obviously state husbands and, above all, we are concerned that Ukraine’s national security is justified. Regrettably, today’s footage in Ukraine cannot withstand tremendous criticism. This includes Mr. Red. Consider the so - called three million bribes, his travels and encounters with Bakai, which the entire Ukrainian police are searching for. And now all the corruption of the Ukrainian nation, the twisting of Ukrainian history. That man should retire. Please support the request to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u9	I'm voting in favour of Oleg Tuggnibok's request to the President of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:45:42]] For 177 Supported. The factions, please. Our Ukraine – 4, communists – 54, Ukraine – 35, People's Party – 13, Timoshenko – 9, Socialists – 7, Ukrainian People's Party – 5, Ukraine – 5, Social Democrats – 19, Democratic Ukraine – 16, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, Democratic Initiatives – 3, non-fractional – 7. I now put to the vote to send a parliamentary request to the president. [[10:46:31]] For-183 No decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, let us consult. We've spent 45 minutes with you asking questions, 46. Shall we give the word to the factions and groups? Is there no objection? There aren't any who deny it? We're breaking the Rules? Okay. Thank you. From the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko has the word Oleg Belarus, to prepare Jaroslav Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u10	National Deputy Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The opening of the eighth session really links our citizens with the hope and demand of improving the work of our parliament. Parliament must strengthen the legislative, first and foremost, activities and control activities. And don't beat yourself up on the path of excessive pre-election politics. States and societies need peace, stability, solidarity. The imperatives of today’s internal political life require and dictate the improvement of the effectiveness of the entire system of government and government management. Strengthening the unity and responsibility of all branches of government. The government in Ukraine should eventually be transformed from a clan-oligaric into a people. The guarantee of real peoples is not just a requirement of the Constitution and a programme of action of the President, the Government and Parliament. Today, there is no crisis in the Ukrainian state government system, there is a process of cleansing and transformation, there are violent processes in Parliament, in the government, in the Office and in the President's Secretariat cannot hide from the people the fact that the weakest chain in the system of power is a judicial branch of power, which is unfortunately corrupt, especially at the basic grass-roots level, and does not provide judicial protection for our citizens. We get thousands of letters with information about the illegal activity of the basic courts. In the future, we will have to go back to the principle of choice of civil courts. Deputies! The question of the restructuring of our Parliament is acute and important today. All the bloc's parties and the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, consistently advocate the principles of social solidarity, social compromise, reconciliation, harmony. The “Fatherland” party promoted the principle of social and social solidarity as an important strategic and programmatic position. Our faction supports initiatives to form a parliamentary coalition as a method of restructuring and as a democratic method of forming a parliamentary majority. But because of the coalition, not the strong method of forming most of the above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u11	Yes, thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”. He will be followed by Leonid Krawchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the distinguished voters of Zaporozhye! I have President of Ukraine's decree 1097 of July 1st this year. It stopped the construction of bridge crossings, which Zaporozhye was about to start in the mid-80s and which Zaporozhye needs very badly, a city worker that fills a large part of Ukraine's state budget. The regional organization of the Ukraine Party, the regional association Zaporozhye is our city, and a number of other political forces and public organizations find it unacceptable to stop building bridges because millions of dollars have already been lost to this nation's economy. Second, Zaporozhye’s territorial community has long been depriving itself of the prospect of solving an extremely acute social problem for the city’s viability. Third, the construction of bridge crossings is not local, as the so-called governor claims, but also national-strategic. Considering that the city is surrounded by technologically hazardous production, metallurgy, chemistry, TEC, GES, Europe’s largest nuclear power plant. Understandably, when emergencies arise, there are no effective ways of evacuating the population and ensuring that the necessary emergency equipment is transferred from the right bank of Dniepra to the left. We consider the attempts of certain politicians to stop the construction of the bridge crossing to be cynical, to justify caring for the fate of the island of Hortic. On numerous occasions, experts from our country’s leading scientists and the construction of a bridge crossing along existing bridges and roads do nothing to harm the environment of the Hortic National Reserve. To put an end to political speculation and to find out the real sentiments of Zaporozhye society regarding the construction of the bridge, Zaporozhye Regional Association “Our City” conducted a large-scale survey of the citizens. More than 30,000 people were surveyed, 90.2 percent of whom made a firm statement for the continuation of the construction work. The government should be concerned that the vast majority of respondents consider the construction of the bridge crossing to be a revenge of the Kiev authorities for supporting Viktor Yanukovic’s three presidential runoffs, during which the first stone was placed at the bridge crossing. Not surprisingly, the patriotic position of the “orange power” that ignores one of the main slogans of Maidan regarding the unity of the east and the arrangement between the left and the right-wing Ukraine. We view similar approaches as an insult to the territorial community of the city, which should not ask for alms from Kiev. How do we know about funding problems in? There never was. Therefore, we warn the Ukrainian transporters that, in the near future, with a view to preserving the destruction of the existing Transfiguration Bridges and the Dniproges Reef by the public organizations of the city, transit, freight transport through Zaporozhye will be blocked. The full responsibility for the possible consequences of such steps, especially for the spread of separatist sentiments, is placed entirely on those local officials who make thoughtless, adventurous recommendations to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u13	Thank you. Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party, has the floor. [[united]] Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian people were quickly tired of the new authority. During the eight months of his reign, he experienced a wide range of crises: rapid price increases, inflation, and the turrets of bracelets. He survived so many political shows and shames that it would not be enough for one authority. During this time, the country’s governance system has been virtually destroyed. Human policy has led to orange absurdity. Ukraine’s chaos is now becoming decisive in the direction of all spheres of life. The new authorities have created so many problems, including international politics, by demonstrating ambitions before Russia and claiming to be teachers of democracy that this would also be enough. Corruption, corruption, and bribery have become systematic, pervading all the cells of the social organism. Instead of putting the system in place in society, the government is focusing its efforts on the points that would give it a monopoly on power, such as winning the 2006 parliamentary elections at all costs, ignoring the interests of the people, of the national producer in the fire order to join the WTO, to achieve Euro integration. Without asking people, they decide the question of joining NATO. The President's management team reminds me of a bee's hive without a uterus, they're rumbling, they're flying horribly, but they're not wearing any honey. Instead of controlling power and situation, the president got involved in the conflicts of his environment. Even an experienced person has difficulty answering who actually rules the country, who has authority, because the Constitution is not an order to them. The truth is that power is ineffective, it cracks at seams, and it has to be the starting point, both in the analysis of state affairs and in the determination of prospects. Maybe Victor Andryovich is a really good person, maybe. But he clearly does not feel that it is a national responsibility for the destiny of a great and very complex European state. After creating several centers of power, Yushchenko became a hostage. He's not in charge, he's in control. He of the nation’s leader turned into a manager into a commercial shield covering up what heroic revolutionaries carry honey with their hands clean. In this case, and based on this, the faction of SDPU(o) is decisively rejecting the new authority in any confidence. We will not vote blindly, we demand that everything be done according to the Rules. I'm warning the revolutionaries against power: the revolution is eating not only the enemies, but also.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u16	One sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u18	Remember: Ukraine has the experience of early presidential elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u19	From the faction of the People’s Party, Oleg Zarubinsky has the word. He will be followed by Gregory Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u20	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished journalists! Six months remained in the Supreme Council’s asset for the fourth call to pay off the electoral debt. For all of us, the time is coming for the gathering of stones, a serious revision of the pre - election promises, and of the things completed and unstarted. No doubt we have something to go to the voters with, but the balance of assets and liabilities on March should be different. Because who but you and I can bring about a system of taxation in a state that remains a serious destabilizing factor in the economy. Who will solve the problem of lost savings and stop the speculation that migrates around it from one election campaign to another. Who, apart from parliament, should find ways to overcome poverty in Ukraine, which is the root cause not only of social but also of economic problems. There are no other critical problems for society that need immediate solutions from the Supreme Council, remain in the economy, in social policy and in the housing and social sphere, and so forth. In connection with this, all participants in the future race may need to realize that everyone’s winnings will be achieved only with the rhythmic and effective work of Parliament as a whole. And we have to agitate here, in this room, with a concrete, coordinated and quality work. The faction of the People's Party is interested in the adoption by the end of the term of office of Parliament not only of the main economic law – the State budget for the following year 2006 which should, by the way, transform from the food budget to the development budget. We will insist on the consideration of all the bills that envision the stabilisation of the social and political situation in Ukraine and the dynamic development of the state economy. Among them, we didn't have our members of the faction of the National Party of Projects, nearly 200. The National Strategy for Rural Development “A Village for Everyone, Everyone for the Village”, developed by the People's Party faction with the participation of leading scientists and practitioners, needs urgent consideration. The basic principles for State control of Ukrainian economic activity are proposed by Catherine Kaszczuk. Katherina Fomenco's legislative proposals for the return of citizens who provide effective mechanisms for solving the problem and so forth. The faction of the People's Party will ask Parliament to support the Jeremey and Zarubinian bill, which provides for reform of the pay system in Ukraine. We think it's immoral when the share of the cost of work in the product is reduced to a pitiful few percent, while in the world it's more than 50 percent. The most effective investor is not the foreign fat, but you are justly the rewarded worker and peasant, engineer and teacher. But we're going to talk about this in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Grigory Bondarenko, Deputy Group “Democratic Ukraine”. Get ready, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u22	Grigory Bondarenko, constituency 92, Democratic Ukraine, election block Volodymyr Lithuania. Dear colleagues, on the second day on all the Ukrainian television channels, the same names ring on the radio: Zinchenko, Poshenko, Trelyakov. They are called foreign voices. The comments aren't good, they're painful. It was suggested that the Secretary of State's resignation was a working moment. No! No! This is not the case at all, it is the honor of Ukraine. The presidential government's dissonance hinders development and the state, and it's time to put an end to it. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to publicly say, “All is well!” and the First Vice-Prime Minister to convince society of the opposite? Worse yet, it is not uncommon for the President to say one thing, an official of another. It is difficult to understand Anatolia Kinach that we heard from him on Monday at the Conciliation Council. And it's not, and it's not, and it's not. From the TV and the same song. But Anatoly Kirilovich is the second person in the Cabinet of Ministers. You've got a lot of analytics, experts. Where are your actions and specific suggestions? The weather in the government was and remains, and it is marked by specific work in ministries and departments. I've already spoken from this rostrum about the embezzlement of 11 state heat cruisers, whose balance value is almost 64 million dollars. In my insistence on this fact, a criminal case has been filed, but after that, it's been more than four months, and the Deputy Attorney General of Golombs is still dropping checks, everything is under control. And the Henprosecutor's actions are no exception. Each of you knows how the new authorities react to our questions and requests. It's a hundred times worse than the hateful previous regime. I'd like to see my colleagues from the overpowered factions. Do not be silent, Your Honor, tell the truth and the authorities and the President, the long-standing coalition diversity is becoming a threat to society and the state as a whole. The authorities need discipline. Discipline and once again discipline. In the family, Father took into his arms when needed, and when this was not done unjustly, he took into his arms. Power needs to be managed wisely. A pat on the back. For example: Peter, Saxon in tax, is not accepted everywhere and is not suitable for everyone. I ask the Prime Minister to provide information on the government's response to parliamentary requests. The Prime Minister will see us be deceived in the end. I would also like to ask Julia Volodymyrna to stand up for state property, as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u23	Thank you, Gregory Ivanovich. The word is from the Communist faction Peter Simonenko, to prepare for the Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, it seems that the orange power acts as terrorists, and only the entire Ukrainian people are held hostage. We, the Communists, propose, starting with the eighth session, to consider some of the real threats posed by the Government and the new authorities under the current conditions. First. The gas crisis is inevitable. And we suggest that we immediately hear from the Cabinet of Ministers about the negotiation process with the Russian Federation on the volume of delivery and prices. It must be recognized that the Government is insolvent, and it is necessary to send an immediate delegation of the Supreme Council to Moscow to address this problem. Without permission from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council decides to carry more than 150,000 tons of sugar-sparing, and hundreds of millions of dollars will put in the pockets of certain oligarchs. We Communists need to respond to what structures and what specific oligarchs are behind this. I have no doubt that the Attorney General's Office is silent, the S.B.I. is silent, in whose hands that is understandable. That is, they act in principle in the truth, a crow to a crow. Downstairs. The Cabinet of Ministers deliberately fails the seed campaign. The price of grain has dropped to 400 bracelets per tonne, and the price of solar power has increased almost to 3.5 thousand bracelets. That is, caring for a village and a small Ukrainian is not about making his life easier, but about making his pockets easier. Next. The transfer of property acquires an economic threat, economic sovereignty of Ukraine of magnitude. The Cabinet of Ministers failed the negotiations on the Single Economic Area, today a new transition on the Criovogestali, the Nicolaus Ferrospile Plant, the Northdonese Nitrogen, the Government of Timoshenko-Cervonenko have already submitted a project on the privatization of railways, that is, a real programme for the destruction of Ukraine's national and economic complex is being implemented. The President, in grave violation of the Constitution, has determined the right of only a few officials to pursue foreign policy. We must immediately consider the Law on Principles of External and Internal Policy. The dangerous social demagogies are now being reopened: the Cabinet of Ministers is increasing energy prices, and the increase in tariffs is incumbent on local authorities, i.e. those that have nothing to do with it. For what merit, the Communist faction would like to know, they have increased the salaries of officials ten times. What have they done for the people of Ukraine, that of 20,000 wages? They're not responsible for anything. Conclusions. First. New threats. After the takeover of power, the power of nationalists and socialists divides only property. Second. Following the Lazarenko and Company Trust, a transnational clan, Berezovsky, Kolomoyski, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, was formed. The power of Yushchenko began an era of Maccartism. Today, representatives of the political force, the Assembly, have filed a declaration banning the parties. I now wish to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens. In your eyes today, there is a terrible scenario that the Communists have warned about. Is there a limit to the current power of nationalists and socialists?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u25	Yes, since the future faction of the NDP and the Labour Ukraine, Valérie Desert Tenko has the word. He will be followed by Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u26	Statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Head of the People's Democratic Party Valery Desert and the head of the political party “Trudova Ukraine” Valeria Konovaluk on the issue of the privatisation of Ukrazalnica. A tightening socio-economic situation in Ukraine is taking on further shifts and threatens to become a systemic economic crisis and a massive price collapse. More and more difficulties arise from the financing of the articles of the State Budget. Local budgets are just on the verge of collapse. After populism, the government has chosen a way of blindly raising wages and pensions, and in fact, the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, is now facing the threat of bankruptcy. In an effort to save the situation caused by irresponsible government policies, it was the government that took the following thoughtless and threatening steps and introduced a draft law on the removal of objects from the list of those who were not privatized. Of these, 17 district offices of Ukrzalznice: Ivano-Frankivsky, Ternopil, Lvivsky, Donetsky, Dnipropetrovsky, Odessky and so on. Thus, the powerful strategic object behind the Ukrainian transport system, which ensures the stable functioning of the state’s economy, is offered to be sold out. This is not only about the threat of the destruction of the transport complex but about the security of Ukraine. I find these positions to resemble the panic and defiance of high government officials in their own ability to deal with socio-economic situations and overcome crises. We, the National Deputies, the members of the NDP MPs and the Labour Ukraine Party, Valerius Pestovatenko and Valerius Konovaluk condemn the steps taken by the government that could lead to the destruction of the Ukrainian economy. I went to the Cabinet once again, they said no. Such an assignment is now under the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litvin, the trade unions that bring together Ukrzalznice’s employees, not to allow this important issue to be addressed at all, not only in the sessions of the Supreme Council, but in general in our country. I call on the parliamentary committees to develop their proposals, including legislative changes in economic policy. If the government does not have a long-term strategy for Ukraine's socio-economic development, it should be stopped by the Supreme Council. I also want to add that today the containers, the port of the Illyshiv Sea Trade Port, which is a state property, are completely passed on to the commercial structure. And we're going to be discussing this at the committee meeting today. I believe that, in view of the economic crisis that has indeed taken place, Parliament must do its utmost to restore control of the situation in the economy and society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u27	From the faction of the socialists, Joseph of Winsky has the word. He will be followed by Viacheslav Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, at the commission of the faction of Soccer, I would like to make a statement on the situation in the agri-industrial complex. The government’s latest actions in the agricultural market in Ukraine have led to the collapse of agricultural production in Ukraine. Initially, the Cabinet of Ministers tried to push through the Supreme Council a number of laws that seemed necessary to join the World Trade Organization. Further action by the government led to illegal imports into the territory of Ukraine of Brazilian sugar-sparing production. Once again, we emphasize the artificial nature of the sugar crisis in Ukraine. This scheme was beneficial for those who made hundreds of millions of dollars using the legalized Cabinet of Ministers of Smuggling Mechanisms. As a result, the budget suffered losses of about half a billion dollars, and the foundations of drilling and sugar production were blown up in Ukraine. By creating a noise around the artificial sugar crisis, the Cabinet of Ministers ignores the real crisis that arose in the agro-industrial complex of the state as a result of the self-disposal of the Cabinet of Ministers from solving the problems of the village. First of all, it's about a sharp rise in fuel oil prices. The government has not taken any action to provide oil and petrol for the harvesting campaign, and now for the sower. The inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers has led to a sharp increase in the cost of agricultural production. Today, there has been a paradoxical situation where the cost of food grain exceeds the purchase price. As a result, farmers suffer tremendous damage. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers refused to use government grain purchases in the Reserve Fund, which could stabilize the market situation. This policy of Kabmin leads to a real collapse in the country of grain production. As a result, in the following year, Ukraine will be forced to import grain for its domestic needs. The Socialist faction requires the government and the Supreme Council to take immediate steps to normalize the situation in the APC. We demand that first, based on the experience of developed countries, create a ministry of agrarian politics, an agrarian reserve fund, real money, not paper. Second, in the shortest time to review the Supreme Council's draft amendments to the State Budget Act, to allocate two million dollars from the State Budget to overcome the crisis in the agri-industrial complex. In view of the increased cost of sugar beet production and the aim of creating a sugar - making base for the Cabinet of Ministers to raise the minimum purchase price for sugar beet with a sugar content of more than 20 percent to 220 dollars per tonne. On the basis of the calculation of sugar output and the profitability of sugar factories, the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the minimum cost of implementing sugar and providing by intervention an agrarian general fund of up to 10 percent. The situation in the APC requires a comprehensive review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we are proposing a special meeting on Friday to consider the situation in the APC, since, as I have said, the government has gone away from this problem, does not understand its global nature, and does not understand the consequences for Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, after considering this situation, I ask you to ask the question of putting the APC on Friday into the agenda of the session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Joseph Vicentiyovich, your colleagues had already asked this question yesterday, and I reported that your commission had been completed: on Friday there was a second issue of information in the APC, something that Simonenko had raised on the Conciliation Council was supported by others. It's included in the agenda, you don't have to vote, it is. Yes, please, Viacheslav Koval, the leader of the new faction, will speak for six minutes on behalf of two factions. Please. We'll get Hubsky ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u30	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! National Deputy Koval, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Let me announce a statement by the faction of the political parties of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" and the People's Movement of Ukraine on the creation of the interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenk's bloc "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The parliamentary factions of the political parties of the People's Union "Our Ukraine" and the Ukrainian People's Movement, which had recently formed a joint parliamentary faction "Our Ukraine" before its reorganization, which had taken place under the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and the faction clauses, claimed the following. First, with the aim of supporting the course of President Viktor Yashchenk of Ukraine to facilitate the implementation through parliamentary mechanisms of his political and economic programmes, of factions in accordance with article 4.2.3., paragraph 6. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are created by the interfractional merger of the bloc of Victor Yushchenka "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Secondly, factions continue to support the strategic nature of their cooperation, which is based on the shared core programming principles and priorities of the democratic development of the state, the further activities of the political parties, the People's Union "Our Ukraine" and the National Movement of Ukraine. Thirdly, the main task of the interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenk's bloc, "Our Ukraine", is to agree on the position of the faction of a wide range of issues that arise in the process of parliamentary activity and political life of the State as a whole. Fourthly, the priority for interfractional integration is a targeted activity with the creation of a pro-Presidential coalition of people's deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, called upon to ensure the constructive work of Parliament and through parliamentary mechanisms to contribute to the effective implementation of the political and economic course of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. Fifthly, the interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine” is open to cooperation with all the MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that share the principles of an interfractional merger. Let me announce the statement of the interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenk's Block “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the incident at the Sarich Mission in Crimea. By the end of August this year, Saric was involved in an incident involving a squadron of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation against Ukrainian citizens. This case is a mere fact of systematic violation by the Russian side of the current legislation and sovereignty of Ukraine to fulfil its obligations under inter-State agreements that regulate the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in the territory of our State, international and legal norms. The incident was the result of a demonstrated failure by the Russian side to implement a number of decisions by the courts of commerce regarding the return of hydrographic objects to Ukraine illegally held by the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation. Yes, instead of organizing interstate negotiations to resolve the conflict, the Russian side placed its military units on the Saric mission, thereby violating Ukraine’s sovereignty. In fact, the occupation of part of our territory has led to gross violations of citizens’ constitutional rights. The interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenka’s Block “Our Ukraine” has repeatedly highlighted the relevance and necessity of discussing the issue of national security in Ukraine and the issues related to the establishment on its territory of the Russian Federation’s operational and strategic unification. We believe that one of the main reasons for this situation is the lack of parliamentary control over the implementation of agreements on the establishment of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. In view of the stated, interfractional merger of Victor Yuschenka's Block “Our Ukraine” requires consideration at the next meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of the status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine with further follow-up to the recommendations for negotiations within the non-State commission Yuschenko-Putin. Second, to include in the agenda of the September 8th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7696 of 07.07.2005 “On the establishment of a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the implementation of the basic status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine”, which was initiated by an interfractional merger. We will not abuse the state sovereignty of Ukraine, and in the event of further gross violations of international treaties by the Russian Federation, we will demand the withdrawal of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation from Ukraine. Interfractional merger of Victor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u31	Thank you. We've saved some time. Bogdan Hubsky of the “One Ukraine” faction. Prepare Gurieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we have begun the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in conditions of intensifying the political struggle. The conflict over the return to state property of illegally privatized factories and the public accusations of high officials in corruption have gained tremendous public resonance. Some signs of political crisis have emerged. In such circumstances, we consider it necessary to put the social interest above the petty political situation and to confirm the invariance of the key principles of democratic development, the transparency of power, its accountability to the people, the separation of power from business. Strategic decisions need to be made in the interests of society, for the future of our country’s country depends on the success of the authorities. The President of Ukraine is the guarantor of democratic transformations elected and suffered by all the Ukrainian people. The government has consistently implemented a strategy of radical change, successfully implemented all budgeted social programs, increased pensions, increased salaries for budget workers. Professionally and, I emphasize, it is a matter of principle that a return to state property of illegally privatized objects, such as Krivoriztali, the Nicolel Ferrospile Plant, is being made. In doing so, the government acts exclusively within the framework of the law on the basis of appropriate judicial decisions. Returning to government property of these and other illegally stolen factories will enable the budget to increase by tens of billions of dollars. As a result, the following year this will provide an opportunity to solve major social problems. Minimum wage, which is at least 1,000 dollars, free medicine for the poor, free every schoolboy to become a student of higher education. We are obliged not to allow ourselves to be reinstated into old criminal schemes. We support the position of the President of Ukraine on the need for law enforcement to verify all facts of possible corruption. This issue needs to be brought to a special open session of the Supreme Council. Society should be confident that politicians and high officials are doing their job in a dignified manner, working solely in the interests of the people of Ukraine. We are under an obligation to ensure stability in our country. As a result, we consider the consolidation of well-designed political forces and the creation of a broad coalition to support the course of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, the basic principles of unity should be: the ideology of national development, patriotism, professionalism, and efficiency. The creation of a single constituency on these principles, which will undoubtedly win the next parliamentary elections, will enable a successful strategy for democratic transformations and ensure the stable development of the Ukrainian state in the coming decade. Because it is our consolidation and our position that will determine the future of our Ukraine and that we must settle down and prevent criminal corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u33	Thank you, Bogdan Vladimirovich. I see you're supporting Leonidas Makarovitch in the parliamentary election. Please, Guriev of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and complete John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u34	Honorable national deputies, the situation in domestic shipbuilding, require immediate intervention. Due to the active position of the National Deputies, contrary to the official position of the previous government, the Act on the Continuation of the Act on State Support for Shipbuilding in Ukraine was adopted in June 2004. And in December of that year, the Supreme Council overcame the veto applied to the Law by the previous president. Regrettably, the process of recovery of domestic shipbuilding, which began with such difficulties, was interrupted after the change of power in Ukraine and the adoption of the 2005 budget. The State Budget Act and its changes were essentially halted by the Act on Measures to Support Ukraine’s Shipbuilding Industry. In addition to the direct restrictions imposed by law on protectionism in the field, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not continue the previously approved list of businesses subject to law and did not approve a new list of enterprises, as provided for by the same law. Only the problems mentioned were addressed at the general meeting of the Shipbuilding Association, as well as at a conference held jointly with ship repairers in June of this year. On both occasions, appeals were made to the authorities of the State, the President of Ukraine. As a result of the urgent need to address the problems mentioned above, I would consider it necessary to ask representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to make urgent decisions on the vital functioning and development of the shipbuilding sector in Ukraine. First. Accelerate the approval of a new list of enterprises. There's a list at the Minneconomy, in Minfin and other ministries. And the delay of agreement deliberately creates a situation that leads to destruction in the field. It's different. To provide in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2006 for the restoration of all the articles of the Law on State Support for the Shipbuilding Industry of Ukraine and the special economic zone of Mikolai, as provided by law until 31.12.2004. Ukrainian ships hope that the above-mentioned minimum action block will be the real support that can ensure the development of one of Ukraine’s most complex areas of shipbuilding, allowing it to avoid the recurrence of a severe crisis, and continue its work towards the development of a national economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u35	Thank you. John the Rabbit has a word from the faction of the Ukrainian National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u36	John the Rabbit of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Respectable national MPs, respected citizens. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party claims first: The faction expresses its concern about the situation in the country. Miscalculations and miscalculations by the government regarding fiscal, customs, tariff, and exchange policies have led to the decline in production and economic loss of the state and its citizens. The situation in Ukraine’s agro-industry complex comes under the condition that in general there is a good crop of price politics and semi-imported government operations once again make the Ukrainian peasant a beggar. Energy supply is rapidly increasing in the country, prices and volumes of gas supply in Ukraine remain unknown before the next heating season, as is the principle of subsidized gas policy. The fact that the process of reprisals has turned the authorities into a war of clans for state property that has nothing to do with national interests is also highlighted by the fact that the process of reprivatization has turned into a war of clans for state property. In a situation involving a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, the President of Ukraine is asked to use all appropriate powers to prevent Ukraine from slipping into economic chaos. We demand that those officials be relieved of their positions, including government officials, who have allowed this development to take place. The other one. The faction calls on all of its fellow Members of Parliament to make this session a top priority exclusively for legislation that will protect the interests of the national economy, develop production and invest in the state. We suggest that, first of all, we listen to government information at the Supreme Council meeting on the situation in the agri-industrial complex, the problems of Ukraine's energy supply in 2006. The policy of the National Bank and the policy of reprivatization. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party calls on all deputies, regardless of their political colour, to unite their efforts to form the 2006 budget as an economic development budget rather than a food budget. We ask our colleagues to urgently review laws that hinder productive activities, particularly small and medium-sized businesses. We propose that legislation restrict the right of a public official to intervene in manufacturing, a fundamental principle that works throughout the democratic world without harming the national producer should finally become a guide to Ukrainian legislation. After all, the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party urges all deputies to make the last session before the next election, not by the field of hard political struggles, but by the place of creation of good for Ukraine. Because that's what the Ukrainian people chose us to do. And I want to answer Leonid Makarovich and those who get angry and rejoice in the difficult situation that has taken place in Ukraine, especially because of the actions of the new government. The Ukrainian Revolution is ongoing. And all that was declared on the Main Independence Day will still be implemented. The disgraceful legacy of old power, as well as the bad news that the new authority has come to pass, will be overcome. The government will be finally cleansed of old and new frames that stain the state. The voice of the people will be heard. Because there is a Ukrainian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u37	Ivan Alexandrovich, your optimism inspires us. But I would like to make one point. This session isn't the last one, it's the last one. On the first Tuesday of February 2006, in accordance with the Constitution, we will open the 9th session of the Fourth Call. This one is the forerunner. Yes. We're done here. Vladimir Yavorowski has prepared all the necessary documents, please, for three minutes -- about the dissatisfaction with the General Prosecutor's Office's response.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u38	Dear parliamentarians, dear colleagues! I think I'm going to express the concern and pain of most of the people's deputies, especially those who think that the MP's request is perhaps the main parliamentary weapon to both get information and not to give the executive authority, the top and bottom echelons of it especially to eat and especially to have fun. I've been watching. And I think that many of you have observed that our parliamentary questions are, in fact, such a ping-pong between us and the authorities. Write what you want. It seems that your answer has already been prepared. The answer is round, the answer that no one is responsible for. Today, we have come to realize that according to the law on the status of the national MP, the answers are not the first to be signed, but the second to be signed, but will soon be signed by the cleaning lady. If we do not pay attention to this today, we are no longer considered by the executive authority to be anything. I'm sorry, it feels like we're political shadows, or even political delusions. Examples. I'm writing a letter to the Attorney General. Most of the nonresidential buildings in the center of the city are stolen in Hmelnickýk. Kidnapped because one document was faked. I write, answers the Curly people: “It takes a lot of time to check this document.” Three months later, I get an answer that tells me what I wrote in my question. The other one. I am addressing Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, who says that I was not allowed to live in Migiriya, where Yanukovic lived until recently. There's the Cossacks, there's a lot of people, I'm showing a parliamentary certificate, I haven't even got the door open. This is when in 1990 and the late Vadim Boyko was released to that territory after Scherbick and we took it all down and showed it. Today, I was not even released and no one is responsible. Question three. I recently sent a tract of this kind, literally, sewn up, ready, prepared by the national deputy, Chobit. It's about Medvedczuk's company, he was the main actor of the Nightingale. All the documents are on file, and you can see that this firm is a lousy company, that millions of dollars have been stolen from Ukraine. I'm transferring to the Attorney General's Office. Three months have passed. I still have no answer. These are just three specific examples, respected colleagues. I'm just calling you. We're being held for nothing. Let's do it anyway, I think we should call in here, report to both the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Come on! We're representatives of the people. What I think of us people, we already know what the authorities think of us today, and we already know. That's why I'm just asking very much regardless of our political views, but let's still honor the MP, we stand for the role of MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u39	Yes, dear colleagues, I think Vladimir Alexanderovich has expressed, indeed, the concern of many of us about the parliamentary questions. Here we are right to complain about the disgruntled answers that give us. But let's put our hand in the heart and honestly say that part of the parliamentary questions that we write could be written as a reference, not as a request, because we see, hundreds of questions every day. It is also a problem, although it is a law, it is a Constitution, and we must answer our questions and petitions according to the law. I'm here in solidarity with the speaker. So, your honors, we've broken all the records for the rules of procedure for applications and parliamentary requests. Now let's move on to our current order of the day. I'd like to mobilize. We have a number of ratification laws. Let's all take a look at them today. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is pending. In view of the fact that the honourable colleagues who are now holding a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers with the President's input were appointed ministers, but they are appointed ministers at this meeting of the committee, a cabinet meeting, so there are appropriate appeals from both the President and the head of government to be replaced today by deputy ministers. I think we will agree on an objective and valid reason. As a result, Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Titenko reports. Get ready, Burjak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u40	Good day, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, I will try to present to you two bills related to obtaining a loan for financing nuclear - safety - related nuclear facilities. The first one now announced is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine and the European Development Bank, which is called the Modernisation Project, after the completion of the construction of the Energy Block No. 2 of the Hmmeln nuclear power plant and Energy Block No. 4 of the Equal Nuclear Power Plant. This agreement will allow the European Development Bank to obtain resources of $42 million from the United States. He participates in this project of influential international organizations such as Eurobank and the next Euro Bill. will serve as evidence that the project's measures will ensure a level of security that meets the requirements of international standards. In accordance with the standard terms of Eurobank, the bank provides the borrower with a loan on terms guaranteed by the borrower, Energoat. [[In this case, the Ministry of Finance]] Since Ukraine is a member of the European Bank, the parties accept the standard conditions of the Eurobank. I would like to remind you that the Ottawa Memorandum of Understanding signed in 1995 by the countries of the “Great Seven”, the European Union and Ukraine have defined the basic principles of a comprehensive cooperation programme to support Ukraine's decision to close the Chernobyl nuclear station in 2000. And the main feature of this program is the completion of the construction of two atomic blocks. And it was defined in the project as a priority. The Eurobank has the mandate of the Great Seven and the European Union to implement this project. The proper work of borrowing Eurobank i. lasted for 10 years. The format of the project, the amount of funding has been constantly revised and changed. As you know, Ukraine built these two blocks at its own expense, and in 2003 the parties agreed that it is appropriate to engage Eurobank's loans at this stage only to fund post-reaction programs on both reactors. I want to tell you two words. The project has a term of 13 years, a suspension of the main part of 3 years, a interest rate of 4.7. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of a guaranteed agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Why don't we just take a look at the questions? Please sign up for the question for three minutes. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u42	Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev Please tell us, during the electoral campaign of the past year, both at Ravenska and at the Hmelnice Station, two grand shows were held: they were imported from all over Ukraine by energy, including atomists, and not just atomists, groups of actors and creative groups. The celebrations were incomprehensible. Both the blocks were unable to work, there were some kind of discovery of these blocks, which just showed the fact that they were there, or the beginning of the construction, or some stage. What is the state of these blocks today? Are they capable of producing electricity? And are they safe for Ukraine today for a given period? Not for the time when this was to be demonstrated in the elections, but for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. I can tell you that the blocks work from September of the month and November of the month last year and this time. Electricity is produced in its entirety, and today the government’s reception commission in Nitešin, Hmelnicka District, finally accepts the Hmelnicka Block to work. And these measures to which this funding will be directed, they relate exclusively to nuclear safety, future protection, and us, and the whole community, the world from the possible, so to speak, consequences. But these blocks still meet the requirements of international nuclear safety standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u44	Please, Alla Alexandrovska. Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u45	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Of course, I would like such a serious issue to be reported here in the presence of the Minister of Energy, because very large issues arise in the control of the use of funds that we take on these inter-State agreements. Tell me, please, how will you control the cost of these funds, because I have repeatedly encountered that even parliamentary requests cannot get an accurate answer: what is purchased, what is done, what is the stage at which we are in. So the question of financial discipline is very large, so to speak. How will you control the spending of these funds?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u46	Thank you for asking. First thing I want to say. Within the 42 million we're talking about right now. Costs will not come to Energoat, but only to the winners of tenders that will be determined by the rules of the European Bank and their international standards of tenders. In this way the winners will be determined by the bank itself, the winners of the tender, and the money will go directly to their accounts. I can tell you that among these 42 million equipment is 34 million, project and educational work is 0.6 million, and seven million are unforeseeable costs, if not, they won't be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u47	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u48	Dear Sergey Mihajlovich, the law you are presenting, the loan agreement, is extremely important for us survivors of the Chernobyl tragedy, and understands that our security units must be at the most advanced borders in the world. In this regard, it is possible to attract extremely cheap money. But please tell me if it doesn't work out that this money is going to be the way we worked on the money for Hmelnick and Rowensky, then we built it ourselves. I understand that the company will still be doing these things, but it won't be rude, so if you'll excuse the expression, we'll have the EBRD one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u49	Vladimir Konstantinović, I am truly grateful to you, first of all, that you have stressed that this is the cheapest money, that Ukraine really needs it as a means of proof that we who have survived the Chernobyl disaster really need to show the highest standards of security. And according to my data this morning, I had talks with Mr. Louis Purga, who is the head of the EBRD energy programme, that if this ratification is today, the first money will be in service in 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Vasilovich Burjak of the Committee on Banking Finance and Activities Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u51	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I will be cramped. In line with the standard terms of the EBRD since February 99, the bank lends loans to the borrower under the terms of the loan agreement between Energoat and the EBRD, but provided that the guarantor, that is, Minfin Ukraine, guarantees the debtor's obligations under the guarantee agreement between Ukraine and the EBRD. The loan amount is 42 million. The principal amount of debt is repaid by 20 equal halves on September 12 and March 12 each year. According to the loan agreement, the last date of receipt of the loan is September 1, 2008, the first date of repayment of the loan is September 12, 2008. The final date of repayment of the loan is March 12, 2018. Floating rate. Based on the standard conditions of the EBRD, the calculated interest rate is defined as the average of a 10 - month - old six - month library, which is about 4.25 percent. In addition, the commitment commission is made up of 0.5 years of age. So the total interest rate is going to be 4.75 years. The articles on loan cost include the purchase of equipment of 33.7 million dollars. US dollars, $0.66 million for project education. United States dollars. The difference is 7.64 million. U.S. dollars unforeseeable spending is standard thesis. The contractor of the commitments made by Ukraine under an international contract defined by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy in conjunction with the State Enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoat. But what I want to stress is that first of all, this loan has a political dimension, that's political credit. This means that we will have what is called “pure energy”, which we have the right to export and which security standards require us to buy in Europe. This international recognition, i.e. the committee has decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the bill mentioned above, to support it, and I ask you to support it as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u52	Thank you, sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Shall we vote? Yeah, well, let's do 12 minutes. They urge Yuri Karmazin to prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The consideration of this issue, with the participation of the deputy minister, although I thought he would be a minister, allows us to focus on the problems that are in the nuclear industry today, in atomic energy. Is it normal that nuclear stations today have ceased to be legal persons, is it not normal for people who produce the cheapest energy for Ukrainians to receive a lucrative plan in time? It's not normal. That's why. These are the problems that need to be addressed to society today. Especially now, we need to change this situation before winter. This situation has now been, and there have been collective appeals from the Zaporozhye groups, that is, the Zaporezite atomic station, where six blocks, that's the problem in front of other stations. So in fact, when it comes to the conclusion that there is no need for extra budget expenditure, I would ask us to draw the conclusion of the Budget Committee, because there is no conclusion of the Budget Committee today. Adam Ivanovich, there is no conclusion of the Budget Committee. And where are they going to go, these millions then, because it's not 42, it's 55? Look, the total interest payment will be $55.5 million. Well, that's not the budget -- that's what the post-election budget will be. So let's not say that there's no expense to each other, and we're not going to write it in the conclusions, and in the committees' conclusions. There are, clearly, costs, they will be for future generations, for future politicians, for future government leaders. In principle, it is possible to ratify this agreement, but I would like to draw attention to the things that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has also referred to: that are written by some who guarantee the agreement, and those who answer, namely, not by “Energot”, but only by the Ministry of Finance. And I want to draw the Ministry's attention to the problems that are in the nuclear industry. I want to point out that a hungry person will never provide safe conditions. I want to pay attention to the need for strict compliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u54	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Vladimir Puzakov, a faction of Communists, has the word. Prepare Vitalia Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština How do we understand that the guarantee agreement provides for the terms of the loan to finance the modernization and security of the power grids of these stations? But the consequences of the closure of the Chernobyl AES have shown that when the same European Bank made a commitment to provide financial assistance in carrying out its work, Ukraine had not yet experienced it. It would be desirable, Mr. Deputy Minister, to provide information on the creation of an effective organization for the removal from the operation of CHEUS and the conversion of the “Secretation” facility into an environmentally sound system with the assistance of the European Bank. Because it was planned to be completed in the first half of this year, but as we know, early in the spring, the construction of the nuclear fuel depot was halted and no one is even talking about the construction deadlines and its end value. At present, there is no technology to transform the “Hidden” object into an environmentally sound system, nor is there a set of necessary measures to achieve a high level of nuclear safety for this object in accordance with the requirements of the convention. Of course, Ukraine is unable to solve this large - scale problem on its own in the shortest possible time, so why would we appease ourselves by adopting this law when previous decisions are not being made. And you don't have to be happy with yourself, Mr. Deputy Minister, with the illusions that the adoption of this law will ensure a higher level of energy security for the Hmal and Plain stations, which will produce more than 6 billion kilowatts of electricity with each energy cloud, and thus secure consumers' electricity. It is better to tell our consumers the truth about the energy crisis that is already at the threshold of our home. Today, the safety requirements for the work of the Hmeln and Plains nuclear stations and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster must be given priority and it should be borne in mind that the issue of state importance is best addressed where the close interaction of implementing and legislative structures is being pursued, while in the field of nuclear and radiation safety there is still an unregulated number of issues that need to be addressed, indeed, at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u56	Vitaly Olujko, faction of the People's Party, prepare for Volodymyr Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, last year, the second power plant of the Hmelna nuclear power plant was launched. The publicity of the area, the political forces and the councils of the various levels before the energy cloud was launched have achieved a specific commitment to finance the construction of social sites in the 30km zone. In support of this, an appropriate decision has been taken by the government, which provides for the allocation of 42 million dollars. But in the past year, only 16 million dollars have been funded, and in the current year, funding has not been fully implemented. That is, the country’s commitment to the territorial community is not fulfilled for the year of the launch of the energy cloud. At the last meeting with the voters of the Bilogir and Isiaslovak regions, he heard fair words at the power address: when the first power grid was launched during the Soviet Union, the inhabitants of the 30km zone were promised to improve housing and living conditions, but were deceived. When a second energy source was launched in 2004 with an independent Ukraine, fearing human anger, they promised to invest in social needs, but words did not. Whom should I trust? As media reports have shown, Energoat has started rebuilding the construction of the third power grid of the Hmeln nuclear power plant, although there is no ecological expertise and there is a major water supply problem today. The country continues to develop nuclear energy, which is considered by the world’s most risky and civilised countries to refuse it. Will Ukraine then be turned into another raw material supplement? On behalf of their electorates, national deputies from the Hmelnicka region require: first, to complete the full funding of the objects of the social assignment of the 30 kilometers in the list that was approved at the beginning. It's different. Provide reliable information about the construction of the third and fourth energy clouds. Third. Set the cost of electricity for the inhabitants of the 30km zone of 50 percent of the value as it was in the Soviet Union. In addition, taking into account the world’s experience and national legislation on the placement and expansion of dangerous objects, local self - government authorities need to be harmonized. So we, the people's deputies from the Hmelni district, together with the initiating group, are going to initiate a local referendum on the purpose of expanding the energy clouds to the Hmelni nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u59	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Today, the government is making proposals for the ratification of a guaranteed agreement. But from my colleague's statement, it is now known that the government, together with the organizations concerned, has not fully met the 30km law. Of the 42 million budgeted for these purposes, about half are allocated this year alone. It upsets people, and the fact that living in a 30-kilometre zone essentially has to do with people who feel the harmful effects of radiation every day, has to pay for electricity as much as they pay those who live a thousand miles away from an atomic station. Every year these people are fooling around with promises to lower tariffs, but no one wants to get into their position is causing some social tension in the areas of the two areas on which the Hmelnicka atomic station is located – the Revensky and the Hmelnicka. Recently, in the Slavutsky region, there were natural rallys of workers on which the “Protect Your Homeland” community was founded, and it became known that the Cabinet of Ministers at one of its meetings had considered the construction of the third and fourth blocks of the Hmelnicka AES. A district council that should agree with the well - known has not even set up. It turns out that Kabin does not take into account the Ukrainian Law on Self - Government, which clearly states that important decisions such as the construction of dangerous objects are made only with the consent of local councils. Now without a final solution, without proper documentation, think, ladies and gentlemen, without building documentation, work is being done to build the foundation of the third block and to build it. From whom and for what, then, can we ask where tomorrow will be those who make decisions about the construction in Kiev and live under the reactor of the pilgrims. Who asked them if they agreed? The government needs to be considered with the opinion of the people. One more. Maybe it's worth ratifying the guarantee agreement, it's going to give you 42 million dollars to finance the modernization and security measures of the second power grid of the Hmelnicka AES and the fourth plane. But where are the guarantees that these funds will go for these very purposes, today these questions here in this room, that this money will simply not be stolen, as it has already done with the many tranches that have come. Unfortunately, no such guarantees can be given in Ukraine today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u60	Thank you. For reasons of vote, only those who are recorded. Let's, however, honorary colleagues be the only ones written down. Please, Melniczuk, one minute and Rabbit. I repeat only those who were recorded for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u61	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. We have to ask ourselves, is there a guarantee that this money will, in fact, go to the safety of the Hmielnické and the Plains AES? There is no guarantee. In this room last year, we voted, the socialists did not support it, 200 million loans were taken by Danilenko to issue state property rights to peasants. We don't know where that money went, we know that Danielenko doesn't run the State Committee anymore. But what's easier for the Ukrainians is the same thing that we have today on these two issues in the Plains and Hmiel stations. We take credit, we vote, and then what? Why is the cost of electricity today 4 kips, 6 kpcs, and the peasants are being implemented, or the Ukrainians are 36 kpcs, by 28. If this went to a loss, we're willing to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u62	The hare is passing the shire, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u63	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian National Party Ladies and gentlemen, all speakers have talked about the problems that exist around nuclear energy. But I'd like to say essentially what's going on with this ratification. This is about enhancing the safety of the fourth and second Hmělník nuclear blocs. So I don't think there's any MP here who doesn't care that we all know what nuclear energy is. And how safe it should be. And about control. It said who could provide the guarantees. We have a committee on nuclear regulation that is very closely monitoring the implementation of these measures. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of ratifying this agreement, because it will increase the safety of the fourth Equinox and the second hoper nuclear power grids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the motives are over. Sign up, three minutes of motive. Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u65	Eugene Hoornik, “Our Ukraine” faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Dear colleagues, even though the rapporteurs did not respond to the claims made by the chief expert management that these loans that are offered to us, they have some underwater stones where these guarantee agreements can be broken. We remember when governments at Kuchma wept that they were not helping us close the Chernobyl AES and then the construction of the blocks on the Plains and Hmelnicky. In support of the whole ratification, I would still like to say that the texts of the treaties, unfortunately, work very imperfectly, allow for a variety of interpretations of the collapse of these credit agreements. And I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u66	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u67	I'd like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u68	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u69	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I urge you not to support the ratification of this agreement today, based on the fact that it is made by the government to disgrace us with you, for the people of Ukraine conditions, namely: it requires European co-operation, requires the setting and correcting of electricity tariffs, including without limiting the price of wholesale tariffs for the power of the company Oblenergo, the tariff of the borrower and the modification of such tariffs in a manner that corresponds to the methodology for the formation of the tariffs of combined heat and nuclear power stations, the tariffs of hydroelectric power stations. So this is saying that by voting in favour of this agreement, the ratification of this agreement, we are actually voting with you for the government's responsibility to increase electricity tariffs for the same, let's say, industrial agriculture, transport and communications, rising electricity tariffs for the population and much more. I urge you not to support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u70	Mosquito, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Deputy Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u72	Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the bill now submitted to us by the Government, assures us that there will never be security in Ukraine, that atomizers and nuclear energy management systems are a reliable guarantee of our energy security and general security. With regard to the issue of social security, with regard to the arrangements for the installation and construction of atomic blocks, I draw your attention to the fact that, in the course of the day session, including tomorrow, there are already these bills which oblige the Mintopenergo and the atomizers to take into account all the risks and to ensure their means of managing the safety of the population, its social protection, and the provision of its value-based electricity tariffs in the nuclear station region. I ask you to support us, this is our safety, this is ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u74	Yeah, one minute. Titenko and we'll vote. Please. One minute, Sergey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, all the problems you've called here really do exist, and I mean 30 kilometers of space and all that. But in this case, it's only about nuclear safety. And these people who live in the same 30 kilometers, I don't say anymore, have the right to a safe life. So I'm asking you very much and 4 percent, from an economic point of view, I'm saying with the suspension of payment. For three years and a 10-year maturity, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u76	Thus, the official position of Eurostat and specialists that the blocs so far have full standards of world security. But since nuclear safety is not on the ground, it was decided to continue working on modernization as early as 2003. This will be done on each of the blocks. That's why I'm doing it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u77	Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll vote. It is the vote on the adoption of the Law “On the Ratification of a Guarantee Agreement, a Modernization Project after the completion of the construction of Energyblock 2 of the Hemisphere Atomic and Energy Cloud No. 4 of the Equal Atomic Between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Registration number 0271. [[12:08:19]] For 295 The agreement has been ratified. The law is passed. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 71, Communists – 0, “Ukrainian Regions” – 35, National Party – 40, Block Timoshenko – 39, Socialist – 22, Ukrainian National Party – 21, Party “One Ukraine” – 20, Social Democrats – 0, Democratic Ukraine – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 15, Democratic Initiatives – 1, non-fractional – 12. People’s movement is not yet on the computer. The People's Movement will be here. Dear colleagues! A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u78	Let's get back to work. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine as a Guarantee and European Atomic Energy Society is being considered as Creditor for the Agreement on the Loan Mechanism, the equivalent of $83,000,000 in Euro to increase the security of Energy Block No.2 of the Hmelnic AES and Energy Block No.4 of the EES between the National Atomic Energy-generation Company Energoat and the European Atomic Energy Community of July 29, 2004 Reported to Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Titenko. Please, three minutes. Get ready, Burjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill is the second source of funding for the same nuclear safety measures. The total cost of these measures is 125 million. In that law you've already passed, 42 million. And this bill provides for another 83 million. I want to say, if there was a Eurobank, a Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in this case it's about the organisation of a European Atomic Energy Society, and it represents a committee of European societies on this issue, whose task is to promote a higher standard of living in countries, members of European societies and the development of relations with other countries. To accomplish this task, he is a Jew. promote investment and ensure the creation of security conditions that are necessary to address factors that pose a threat to life and health in the general public. The member countries have expressed their desire to involve our country in their work. Herotomu. the mandate to contract loans with a view to providing loans for investment projects aimed exclusively at improving the safety and efficiency of nuclear power plants in the countries of the European Union and, in this case, including Ukraine. It's a windshield. Approved the decision to grant the state-owned energy company a loan equivalent to 80 euros equivalent to $83 million of the United States. I want to say that this money, the actual date of the first sample, could be September 12th, in a few days. The latest repayment date is March 12, 2018. That the principal amount of debt is repaid by 20 equal halves on 12 September and 12 March each year, which is even lower than in Eurobank and is 4.4 percent. Money will be used in this direction. The equipment is $39.5 million. And in this case, the loan agreement says that the advantage will be given to Ukrainian producers. Like the Kharkiv Acquisition Factory, the Radyy factory and the Impulse plant. [[Kirovograd]] [[North London]] Project education is $27.2 million. These are also our institutes – “Kyivene power project”, “Hydropres”. Construction works are 5.4 million. And for unforeseen costs under the standard scheme, about $7.5 million. I'm asking you to support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u80	Thank you. But I think it's clear. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, it's the same question, it's just another money. You want to ask. Well, Sulkowski should ask the question, he's an equal. One question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of Ukraine, 154th District, Ravenshina. It's Ostrógszczina, my district, 10 kilometers from the block. And I want to say that, Adam Ivanovich and the people's deputies are being created today in executive organs where the swan, the rat and the cancer, the President, the government won't understand what's going on in that team. And I want to tell you, in any case in this situation, we don't have to let them take these loans. Otherwise this loan is all, it's really going to be for our kids. And these teams today, which at the trough, they're just going to steal, and they're not going to do anything to benefit the safety of these nuclear stations. So I have this question for the reporter: Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the minute is not for the speech, but for the question. Turn on the microphone, but ask that question in three seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u83	Tell me, would you please state policy, is it initiating today's 30km zone of security for these people? And how can those living in a 30km zone pay for electricity just as much as those living in a hundred and a thousand miles?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u84	Well, first of all, I'd like to report on the previous issues of financing a 30-mile zone. I just got word from the phone that last year there were 26 million people. A 30 km zone, a plane, and a 24 million. Peanuts. And this year, $14 million has been funded. Pmt. Levels and 20 million It's a hop club. About the same amount of funding is expected by the end of the year. In this case, with regard to electricity tariffs in the 30km zone, I can tell you that the benefits exist only for one place of residence. And they're insignificant, really. But this is a question that needs to be considered. I'll tell you, then the coals will say give them more coal because they're next to the mines, and the oil will be cheaper. Well, the question can be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u85	Well, since the Equinoxes were given the opportunity to ask a question, it was also a hop. Novak, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u86	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin I wanted to clarify this: we do not have the text of the Agreement on the Mechanism for the European Atomic Energy Community to lend “Energotoma” to these 83 million people. It's just your words. You convince us that the interest is very favourable and so forth and so forth, but what are the conditions under which this loan is granted? The text of the agreement isn't presented to us, it's not added to the draft document. And today it is difficult to judge how effective it will be for Ukraine, this loan that we take. What can you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u87	Well, I'll tell you what. Well, from my point of view, the main economic factors in this case look like, this is the term on which the loan is granted, this is, I said, 13 years, and the first three years we're only going to pay interest. The percentages that make up, let me tell you, four, then three fours are 4, 4, 4, 4, 4, 9, 0, 3. Well, lower percentages are probably just in the bank, it's a Japanese bank that gives at least one and a half percent, but with a mandatory purchase of exclusively Japanese equipment. Compared to other economic projects, these are purely favourable conditions, economics, I mean. And they're not asking any political questions, because the main thing for them is a level of security that we're not going to have lower than in Europe, and not just now, but for the next few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u88	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, well, that's exactly the same as the last question. Maybe we should vote? With motive? Well, write down three minutes of motive, and we'll vote. Please, Karmazin. The boyfriend's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, the total interest payment will be $108 million from the United States. It's a serious loan. But you and I have to see clearly that 80 steps are foreseen for the Energy Block of Hmelnicki Number Two and 81 West for Energoblock Number Four of the Equinox. Therefore, given that the Constitution provides for the highest priority, the lives of Ukrainians, I think that this Agreement should be ratified between Ukraine and the European Community, and despite the fact that the State Budget Act 2005 establishes that there is no State guarantee, except guarantees for loans granted by financial international organizations, that it is an international financial organization and that it can be considered to be ratified.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u90	Please, Little Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u91	The Communist faction. I'd like a word with Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u92	Please, Simone's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u93	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the consideration of this question gives us reason to ask questions on a different plane. Last year, 2004, they just handed over the block. What, he was turned over without a means of protection? What, he was thought to be working for 10 to 15 years, not a year? That now they're borrowing 120 million euros again, and the same loan is going to go up. Once again, I urge you not to support or vote, because this will lead to higher wholesale prices and tariffs for industry, agriculture, transport and communications, higher prices and tariffs for electricity for the population, housing and utility tariffs, cost of production and much more. That is, there is serious concern over the transfer of responsibility to the Supreme Council for government inactivity, helplessness, and the like.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u94	Vladimir Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we offer a unique credit profile. First: a loan that allows only domestic suppliers, engineering services, domestic equipment suppliers. Never went west for that kind of credit, it went down for the first time, because we proved that our suppliers didn't give up at all. Second. The Amortization Cost of NAEC Energy is sufficient to carry out these security enhancements without credit. But that will be 15-20 years, and we are moving our blocs to the level of security that one or two blocs in Europe have achieved. And then we'll have clean electricity, and we'll be safe and proud of our atomic technology. Therefore, I ask that we support this loan so that we can quickly move on to the level of security.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare, we will vote. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine as a Guarantee and the European Atomic Energy Society as a Creditor for the Agreement on the Mechanism for Loaning, the size of which is equivalent to $83,000,000 in euros, to enhance the security of Energy Block No.2 of the Hmelnick AES and Energy Block No.4 of the EES between the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat and the European Atomic Energy Society of 29 July 2004. Registration number of bill 0272. Please vote. [[12:54:42]] For 242 The law is passed. The factions. Please. Our Ukraine 35, communists 0, Ukraine 42, People's Party 27, Timoshenko Block 39, Ukrainian People's Republic 23, Socialist 16, Social Democrats 0, Ukraine 14, Democratic Ukraine 10, Industrial and Business Party 15, Ukrainian People's Movement, Kostinuk, Ukrainian People's Movement 9, non-fractional 12. A draft law on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the work of transport crews carrying out international road transport operations is under consideration. [[JETR]] Registration number 0252. Reported Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Semen Semenovich Krol.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian Law will allow for the harmonization of Ukrainian traffic safety requirements with European standards. The need for the adoption of the Law as required, ensuring a level playing field for domestic and foreign carriers when carrying out international passenger and cargo transports. While in the country. Ukrainian carriers are already obliged to comply with the requirements of the agreement, although Ukraine is not a contractual party. At the same time, foreign carriers may fail to comply with the requirements of the agreement when making transfers to Ukraine, and this creates unequal conditions for foreign and domestic carriers. The ultimate goal of the draft Law is to ensure high standards of road safety, development and improvement of international road transport, passengers and cargo. The practical meaning of the draft Law is related to the introduction of vehicles registered in Ukraine and carrying out international road transport, control devices for the registration of crews of these vehicles. The agreement is one of the most important international legal instruments regulating the operation of trucks and buses, in accordance with the principles of the International Labour Organization. Today, 33 European countries are parties to the treaty. The international requirements for the driver’s work and rest regime set out in the agreement are directly linked to the need to strike a balance between traffic intensity and road safety and a topical issue for all countries in Europe. The draft law is not taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Administration of the State Foreign Service, the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, and gives a positive conclusion to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to uphold the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u98	Thank you, Semen Semenovich. I think we're clear! Vote. I am asking to vote and support the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the European Agreement on the Work of Crews of Vehicles that Perform International Road Transport. [[JETR]] I don't know what it is, but it's written like that. 0252. Please vote. [[12:58:48]] For 317 Act adopted, deal ratified. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, the next two ratifications are identical. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road. And the same draft agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway, Bills Nos. 0256 and 0257. So I'm going to ask Semin Seminovich for two bills to report because they are identical. Please have a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u99	These bills are standard and this is a basic requirement for us to join and adapt our legislation to the European Union. The terms of the agreements determine the conditions and arrangements for the transport of vehicles, buses, and trucks carrying goods between Ukraine and foreign countries. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Syrian Arab Republic and the Kingdom of Norway on International Transport will ensure a reliable legal mechanism of international level to implement and activate bilateral state relations between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Norway and the Syrian Republic, to promote cooperation in the field of road transport. Business relations between countries are being established. Workplaces for our motorists are complemented by the National Budget of Ukraine. Supported by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Committee of the Supreme Council and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u100	Thank you. Please let me inform the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich of the committee’s decision. Semen Semenovich, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The committee considered a draft law that has just been reported to you and recommended it before the Supreme Council adopts it. The implementation of the contract does not require material or other expenses. All the other committees also support the Main Scientific and Scientific Administration. So I would like to support the two bills that we were talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u102	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road. Registration number 0256. Please vote. [[13:02:12]] For 306 Act adopted, deal ratified. I bet on the adoption vote as a whole, as the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the International Carriage of Passengers and Goods by Road. Registration number 0257. Please vote. [[13:02:45]] For 310 Act adopted, deal ratified. Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's the situation. We have two identical bills to report to the Minister of Justice. This is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Romania on Legal Assistance and Civil Relations, Registration No. 0263 and the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on Legal Relations and Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, Registration No. 0268. If you don't mind, we'll ask Roman Mikhailovich to inform on both contracts and we'll be determined. Please, Roman Mikhailovich. Mr Zvarič. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Romania on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil Matters is before you. It should be noted that today the legal relationship between Ukraine and Romania in the area of civil justice is not settled. At the same time, part of article 426 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code provides for the possibility of bringing the courts of Ukraine to foreign courts with a mandate to carry out separate proceedings. Ukraine’s court relations with foreign courts are determined by Ukraine’s legislation and by Ukraine’s international treaties. Actually, it's a contract you're now offered for your consideration. The conclusion of such a treaty is due to the need to develop bilateral cooperation and to facilitate the settlement of international legal relations between Ukraine and Romania in civil matters. International legal assistance is the execution of procedural procedures by the courts of another State, such as the interrogation of witnesses, experts, the handing over of procedural documents or subpoenas to the courts. The treaty also contains standards relating to personal status, family law, inheritance law, and the like. Compilation of the said contract does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, as the implementation of its provisions will be ensured and the limits of the expenditure foreseen in the State budget of Ukraine for the maintenance of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and other competent authorities. For the transcript, let me also point out that according to the Ukrainian Law on the Succession of Ukraine and the provisions of the Vienna Convention on the Succession of States in respect of Treaties. The agreement is to replace the relevant provisions of the bilateral agreement of the former USSR with the Romanian People’s Republic on legal aid in civil, family, and criminal matters since 1958. Honourable national deputies, taking into account the above, are invited to decide on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and Romania on legal aid and legal relations in civil matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich probably has two words and another agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u104	Yes. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You are also invited to consider the Law of Ukraine “On Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on Legal Relations and Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters”. I'm not going to read the entire report because these two treaties are practically the same as I do except that in this second draft of the law, which deals with a treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran, it also spreads into criminal matters, not only civil law, but also criminal matters. So it's supposed, so at a bilateral level, to settle our relationship in a way that the relevant authorities of one or the other party to this treaty can turn to the authorities of the other party so that legal aid can be obtained there as, for example, questioning witnesses, experts exchanging procedural documents and so forth. Both of these contracts I would consider to be framework. That is, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already proved that such treaties are usually ratified by Parliament. This allows us to expand our international relations and to regulate them at such a bilateral level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u105	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Gracheva Oleg Alexiyovich's microphone is the first deputy committee head. The committee's opinion on these two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the committee has considered these bills. They are, as was said here, of a typical nature. You and I have ratified more than 10 such agreements. Therefore, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council be adopted. It should be noted, however, that perhaps because these bills are typical, and the committees led by Onopenko, as well as the budget, the Euro integration led by Moses did not give us their conclusions as a professional committee. I think that the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council needs to be treated more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u107	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. I call on the committees to draw their conclusions to the Committee on Foreign Affairs on some international agreements or other. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the Law “On the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and Romania on Legal Assistance and Legal Relations in Civil Matters”. Registration number 0263. Please vote. [[13:09:49]] For 299 The law is passed. The treaty is ratified. The draft Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Islamic Republic of Iran on Legal Relations and Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters is on the vote. Registration number 0268. Please vote. [[13:10:23]] For 296 We've already voted, what's the motive? Is the next one good? The question is: The draft Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention. Here's the interesting thing, I'll give you a motive. Undersecretary of the Interior, Mr. Werbensky Mikhailo Georgievic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention, prepared by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is proposed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. The project envisions ratifying a cybercrime convention signed on behalf of Ukraine by Ukraine’s Justice Minister in Budapest on November 23, 2001. The adoption of this law will allow for a more effective fight against violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of the use of electronic computing machines and computer systems. I will point out that the Criminal Code, amended on December 23, last year, envisions responsibility for crime in the field of computer and computer technology. All these crimes are covered by the cybercrime convention. The draft law proposes to make a warning that Ukraine reserves the right not to apply individual convention positions to the part of establishing criminal responsibility for storing and acquiring computer programs that allow access to the entire or the time of the computer system. For such acts, a valid Ukrainian Criminal Code does not provide for responsibility. This involves the responsibility of selling, distributing or providing such programs to commit any of the crimes listed in the convention. In addition, article 301 of the Criminal Code provides responsibility for the import, manufacture, sale, and distribution of computer programs of a pornographic nature that also meets the requirements of the Convention. All comments are taken into account when processing projects. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. According to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the Convention is subject to ratification. In accordance with the law, the ratification of Ukraine’s international treaties is carried out through the adoption of the law. Please be supportive. Thank you. For the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u109	Thank you, Michael Georgievich. Well, that's an interesting problem. Sign up. Three minutes to ask. You're on the books. Please, Gunner. And then Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u110	Eugene Gorenik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear reporter, I'm interested in a word like "quickness." You can't say what it actually means. Is this some kind of translation wrong? How do you decipher it at all? That's the first question. Is it the crime of robots or the crime of humans? Well, actually, the accuracy of the terms here needs a certain refinement. The other one. As far as the Convention is concerned, there are real arrangements for both computer interference and pornography, especially money transfers and money laundering through the banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. Well, cybercrime is used, this term, because there is such an official translation of the name of the Convention itself. In fact, this is related to those types of offences that are committed with computer technology, and in short, they call it cybercrime. With regard to action, the articles of the Convention provide for the establishment by the States parties to the Convention, which have signed and ratified the Convention, in internal legislation, of the responsibility to intervene in computer networks related to various types of offences, including fraud, pornography, and the removal of money, if proven. Therefore, this can be fully ensured in the context of the implementation of this convention. And it allows, as it were, to work with those countries with which we don't even have mutual assistance agreements in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u112	Please, Yuri Solomatin, Chernobyl prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u113	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. That's the point. The project proposes to ratify the Cybercrime Convention with warnings and statements. In addition, Ukraine reserves the right not to criminalize child pornography by means of computer systems for itself or another person and by possession of child pornography in a computer system or on a computer medium. Why does Ukraine refuse to punish those who acquire such things by means of computer networks? Is it inappropriate for us to do the opposite? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u114	Ukraine does not refuse to set up such a responsibility. It is just that today’s criminal law does not impose such a responsibility. Therefore, we make a reservation that the person who committed these offences today is insubordinate in Ukraine. And in the future, such changes will be made. And they will certainly answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u115	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u116	I still want to disagree with you. And I think that's a little bit of an improper approach. First, international agreements become part of Ukraine's legislation. Therefore, if we are not yet responsible for the distribution of child pornography in cyberspace, we are obliged to do so. And as long as this is accepted by another law, those ratifications are complete and we are simply obliged to accept them. These are wild crimes. I don't know what kind of country we are that we even have a question about it, and that's what we do. What do we look like on the international stage in this case, that we are actually protecting child pornography at a state level? One second. You're a little, I think you've lost your mind when you talk about just buying in there, storing programs somewhere. As far as I can recall, the Ukrainian Convention refuses to criminalize those who actively use these programs to infiltrate foreign databases and foreign systems. This is in direct contravention of the current norm already in our article. We would vote if it were not for these limitations, so we should accept them in the Convention in full scope.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u117	Thank you for asking. We have the responsibility in law to distribute any pornography at all. Child pornography as a species does not separate from our legislation. It is an integral part of general pornography. Therefore, we have no specific responsibility for the distribution of this particular form of pornography. If you please, and you passed the law last December, you could have done so without any problems. That's the first one. And the second. The issue of hacking into computer networks is in the Convention, which is responsible for it, and in our legislation. There is absolutely no problem, and our computer network is protected by the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u118	Thank you, Mikhail Georgiyovich. Have a seat. As you can see, the problem of pornography has been of great interest to people of different generations -- both middle and younger. Yes, please, Alexander Markovich Bandurka is the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection. The committee's operational opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u119	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement Services considered a draft law on ratification of the Cybercrime Convention signed on behalf of Ukraine on 23 November 2001 in Budapest, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In support of the bill as a whole, the committee believes that its adoption will ensure that domestic procedures are in place to adopt the relevant legislation to be adopted in connection with the ratification of the instrument and are necessary for the validity of the Cybercrime Convention for Ukraine. At the same time, it should be noted that the position of the committee on the overall assessment of the draft Ukrainian law does not coincide with the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Expert Office, which considers it necessary to propose, on the basis of the first reading, to return the draft to the submission of a draft draft draft law on amendments to Ukraine's criminal code and other Ukrainian laws necessary for the ratification of the cybercrime convention. I would like to remind you that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration was this: “As a result of the discussion, we propose to return the draft bill for further processing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal Code and other laws of Ukraine. Members of the committee came from the fact that on December 23, 2004, the six articles in chapter 16 of the Criminal Code were amended. I wanted to say that we had three types of crimes and responsibility for them in the field of computer technology, what we call cybercrime, and now 12. But the expert board suggests a number of additional issues to consider, particularly the interception of telecommunications or the question of listening, or the use of technology and technology for. human rights violations, both by criminal groups and by state institutions. The majority of the members of the committee agreed that it was possible to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think what Alexander Markovich said has absolutely good reason that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is recommending what to do. This is our opportunity to make, and so on. But there's a treaty that needs to be ratified, there's absolutely no obstacle to each other, I don't see any particular problems here. Thank you, sit down, please. We'll vote. One minute, Karmazin. Carmazin and Nadrag, one minute. No, you just said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that we have absolutely been able to ratify this convention without any warnings or statements. Why? Because in fact what is proposed in this convention, we have already done. It's all settled in our Criminal Code. And what we did in December 2004 was to establish criminal responsibility for the creation, distribution, disposal of harmful software or technology designed for unauthorized interference with electronic computing machines, computers, automated computer systems, or power grids. [[This is article 361 prim. Criminal Code]] It's also what we've already foreseen in the article, let's say 361 unauthorized access to the entire computer system, but we predicted that crime is only when the first legal consequences come in, not just interference. So we have another standard level.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u122	Dear colleagues and Yuri Anatolyovich! Note when it was signed: In 2001. Of course, if it were signed today, it would be quite different. So you probably don't need to sign it. Now let's ratify it as it is. We went even further. Vote? Oh, they do. Please, Vasil Ivanovich. And Cranville. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u123	Vasily Nadrag, Lugansk, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, what needs to be voted on, I don't think anyone has any particular doubts. And right now, the lead man has said that since 2001, you and I have signed this document as a State. But I would like to draw your attention and, in this case, to the Ministry of the Interior. We're talking about what we can do today, it turns out, and it's not taken into account by the convention, and we're listening, and we're getting into all the computer schemes, and everything else. Therefore, from the above point of view, I believe that, on the one hand, it is necessary to ratify this convention today, and on the other hand, the Ministry should not wait for someone to take any legislative action, but to do so and initiate their adoption. I think it's going to get full support in this room. At the highest level, we say that we have a bug, where it is possible and where it is impossible to work, and in fact we do not do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u124	Another service is involved. Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u125	Our faction is definitely for the convention to be ratified in the future, but we have already made a decision, according to which those warnings destroy, first of all, conflict with the legislation of Ukraine. Second, they destroy to a very large extent the text itself of the main convention and, thirdly, they actually stimulate certain crimes, their continuation. That's why our faction has decided, once again, not to vote for this kind of ratification. Nothing prevents the signatory today from making any mistakes that, well, could be the basis for warnings that was foreseen in the state of law in 2001. We can thus return to certain covenants with Khan Bati and others. There may have been some warnings there that are not available today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u126	Thank you. There was no Supreme Council then. I'm sorry. Yes, dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cybercrime Convention. Registration number 0261. I urge all of you to support him in a friendly way. Including the faction of the regions. Something better than nothing. [[13:26:41]] For 274 The law is passed. Convention ratified. Yes, Your Honor, we have six bills concerning the ratification of treaties between the Cabinet of Ministers and the governments of different states on mutual protection of classified information. These are registration numbers 0274, 0275, 0276, 0277 and 0279. Let's do this again. Let's ask the Deputy Head of the Security Service of Bjelova Alexandr Fedorovich to inform about all these agreements because they are identical. And we'll listen to the opinion from the profile committee in Grachev's foreign affairs, and that's where we'll be determined. Please, Alexandre Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Mutual Protection of Secret Information, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Moldova and the Republic of Estonia is proposed for your consideration. Also in the field of technical information protection cooperation with the Republic of Tajikistan and in the field of military classified information with the Republic of Korea, which was developed by the Ukrainian Security Service. These agreements are made with the aim of creating legal frameworks for the exchange, if necessary, of classified information between the parties in the process of cooperation in the areas of national security, the protection of the rule of law, defence, external relations, and the prospects for military, political, economic and scientific cooperation within the framework of individual agreements and contracts. Ratification of the agreement with the Republic of Tajikistan in the area of technical information protection cooperation will also facilitate the sharing of experiences on information protection and information security. These international agreements provide for a purely equitable partnership in the process of cooperation, oblige the parties to take all necessary steps to protect the secret information received in the course of cooperation. By content and form, they fully meet the requirements of current legislation, as well as the established practice of the Government of Ukraine making similar agreements, already ratified by the laws of Ukraine, and more than twenty. According to articles two, the thirty-second Ukrainian State Secret Act, as well as articles of the ninth Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the contracts listed are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of these agreements will not require additional costs from the State budget or require changes and additions to existing legislation. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the ratification of the agreements will be in the national interest of Ukraine. According to the profile committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the adoption of the bills on ratification and inclusion in the agenda of the day session was recognized in foreign affairs. I'm asking you to support these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u128	Thank you, Alexander Fedorovich. Do you understand the situation? Have a seat, please. So is the microphone of Gracheva Oleg Alexiyovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u129	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues, our committee has considered all six bills that have been reported to you by the honourable Alexander Fedorovich. I just want to point out that those agreements do not provide for additional financial costs from the State budget, and the agreements do not contain provisions that conflict with the current legislation of Ukraine, and the implementation of these agreements does not require the adoption of new laws or changes in the current legislation of Ukraine, which is very important. The committee's asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, these are not the first agreements and not the last ones, we have ratified with you since we were tens of them. I think they're useful to the state to protect each other's classified information. Although cybercrime is such that it is difficult to defend itself now. That's why I'm willing to vote for the decision, and I'm voting for the adoption of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Mutual Protection of Secret Information. [[Registration number 0274]] Please vote. [[13:32:41.]] For 287 Thank you. Act adopted, deal ratified. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the protection of classified information of a military nature. Registration number 0275, please vote. Come on, please. [[13:33:17]] For 290 We're picking up the pace, the law's been passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual protection and the principles of the exchange of classified information is on the vote. Registration number 0277. Please vote. [[13:33:57]] For 307 Copy that. I am voting on the draft Law on the Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the mutual protection of classified information. Registration number 0276. Please vote. [[13:34:29]] For 295 The law has been passed, the treaty has been ratified. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on cooperation in the field of technical protection of information is on the vote. Registration number 0278. Please vote. [[13:35:06]] For 311 Act adopted, deal ratified. And it is the vote of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on mutual protection of classified information. [[Registration number 0279]] Please vote. [[13:35:36]] For 321 The law is passed. The deal's ratified. Thank you, Your Honor. And we have yet another draft of the European Landscape Convention Ratification Act. [[Registration number 0266]] Shall we vote? There's no warning. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the European Landscape Convention, 0266. A professional committee, Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich, in particular, says that support is needed. Vote. [[13:36:27]] For 319 The law is passed. The ratification agreement of the European Landscape Convention has been ratified. Dear colleagues, thank you. You and I have passed 15 laws. With your consent, I'm announcing that we're going to be working 15 minutes longer, until 14 hours 15 minutes. And let's move on to the section “In summary procedure”. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is under consideration, [[on the consumer's right to information in the form of accounts]] [[Registration number 7457]] Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Gandabur Vasil Teodorovich will report. Bondarchuk Alexander to prepare. Yeah, there's no reporter, then is there a Berkut? Yes. Then let's move on to the next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Architecture, registration number 7365. [[on the acceptance of documentation]] He will report to the First Deputy Head of the State Committee for Construction and Architecture - Berkuta Anatoly Vysvoldovich. From the committee to prepare. Please. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In the government’s work of improving and simplifying permit procedures for building buildings, work to change the fundamental legislative acts governing urban activity is at stake. The bill provides for amendments and additions to 16 articles of the current Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities, including clearly defined requirements for publishing information and conducting architectural competitions, provides for public participation in the discussion of architectural projects, establishes a Rules of Understanding of Projects, extended copyrights of architects, requirements for legal persons who develop project documentation on the need for the involvement of architects who have a qualified certificate, and provides for the participation of the National Association of Architects in the work of testing these professionals. I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the basic provisions of the bill. Thus, article 5 states that architectural planning, tasks, and technical conditions for the engineering of buildings are limited to two years. This period is proposed to continue until the construction is completed if it begins during this period. Part two of article 7 regulates an important position whereby legal persons who do not have certified architects in the state are given the opportunity to develop projects by involving architects who have a qualified certificate in the appropriate direction of architectural activity on contractual grounds. Part 4 is defined. That when the project is agreed on, it cannot be subject to additional requirements that are not defined by the output and the legal acts. All of this will contribute to the development of entrepreneurial activities in the investment field. In view of the fact that the authors of a number of resonant projects during the development of which violations of urban legislation have been committed, the main architects of cities, districts and their deputies have proposed a standard whereby officials involved in the development of projects are not entitled to carry out expert studies on these projects, to agree on them, or to grant permission to carry out construction work for these projects. The bill also regulates the requirements for the appointment of chief architects. In this way only individuals with higher architectural education and organizational, professional work in the field of building architecture can participate in the competition. Additional responsibilities have also been established for contracting parties to agree to the project documentation before maintaining the project documentation of the built objects. The adoption of the bill will create additional conditions for improving the quality and development of architecture in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u132	Thank you, Anatoly the Almighty. Have a seat, please. Yeah, it's a profile committee. I don't see Valeria Pavlovich here, but there's a conclusion. They support this bill. Shall we discuss it? Vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Architectural Activities on Acceptance of Documentation. Bill number 7365. A very timely and necessary bill. Please be supportive. [[13:41:39]] For 293 Adopted in the first reading. Is it possible that we accept in general? No, we don't. Motives have already taken place. Vote, Your Honor, before that. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. [[We've got a reporter coming up.]] [[on the consumer's right to information in the form of accounts]] 7457. Short-term procedure. Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Gandabur Vasil Teodorovich, from the committee to prepare Sukhoma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, developed by the Ministry of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. The project provides for additions to part two of article 18 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act on the sending of information in the form of bills for communications, utilities and other payments in postal shipments, unless consumers are ordered another type of delivery of invoices. Such practices exist in most developed countries of the world, which envisions both a culture of public service and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens as part of the restriction on access to information about a person. The provision of a billing service in postal services will be done on a contractual basis. That is to say, this service will be provided to organizations that account for the population for various services not only to Ukrainian state-owned postal services, but also to courier delivery services, as well as other companies that provide correspondence services. In doing so, it should be stressed that the right to order services belongs to the consumer. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional material and other costs from the State budget. The adoption of this act will ensure the implementation of the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to non-proliferation of information about a person without their consent and increase the availability of the State budget. Taking into account the conclusion of the Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine on the Network to support the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee, Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! The Committee points out that bill number 7457 is not presented by the State Committee on Technical Control and Consumer Policy, or the central executive body on consumer rights, but by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which is a monopoly on postal services. Therefore, first, the implementation of the bill will increase the value of sent-out accounts Freg_00363*002*027&lt;13:44: 56&gt; for payees and may affect the tariffs for the provision of these services to the population. Because the bill does not determine who will pay the postal bills. The other one. The motivation of the Mintrans legislative initiative is not convincing, as the existing practice of delivering mail to the population in the vast majority because of neglected mailboxes — look at the approaches to our homes! – easy access by any interested person to foreign correspondence, non-security of access to personal information. Third. It is doubtful that Ukraine's government budget will increase its income in the amount of over 6 million dollars per year on the basis of an increase in taxes on Shrimpland, as this may reduce tax revenue from legal persons who receive payments. Indeed, in its conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority notes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis, but the Ukrainian Consumer Association, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, in the above-mentioned draft, does not support the bill. In view of the above, the Committee on Social Policy and Work proposes the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act under number 7457 to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u136	You're very firm. Yes, thank you. Shall we discuss it? Well, let's just give it a minute who insists. Oh, dear, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, because 1 minute, so with your permission. Okay, first of all. What protection of consumers' rights can we say that if the 7 receipts that a person will have to receive for utility payments and all the rest of the month, it will be 4.20 per person. No undertaking that even formally paid for mail services would charge these costs on its profits. This will cost the consumer. Second moment. What kind of information are we talking about when it's written on an envelope, who gets the information from whom? In this situation, therefore, anything can be said, but an even more perplexing question is that six million will receive a State budget. How much will the population lose? So based on that logic, I'm sorry, these things can't be maintained. And absolutely right, a committee of profile that said that the bill was just meaningless. This is the lobbying of population mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u138	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. As a member of this committee and one of the heads of this committee, you say the committee is right. Shall we vote? I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. [[on the consumer's right to information in the form of calculations]] Registration number 7457. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:24]] For-57 I think fate is clear. There's no point in saying it again. Let's still find the reconciliation between the profile ministries. Involve the Ministry of Social Policy. But they've already voted. I'll give you the next one. No, it's not. We voted. Before that, Paul. Let's do this. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the alienation of land]] Registration number 7643. Short-term procedure. Reported Deputy Head of the State Property Fund, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondar. Let's get this paper ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u139	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act of Amendments and Supplements to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the alienation of land]] In considering this bill, you need to draw your attention to the change in the legal status of land that has taken place since the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Article 181 of this Code recognizes land as immovable property. According to article 192 of the Civil Code, land areas are identified as integral components of the single property complexes, enterprises along with other types of property. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Land Code, sales of state land are carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and by government administrations. Although, according to valid legislation, the authorities of the State do not have the authority to sell state property. Such rights are granted only to the State bodies of privatization. Thus, existing legislation has created a conflict of rules regarding land administration as immovable property. For the purpose of resolving the conflict, the draft law provides for the identification of the sole administrator of the state estate, including land in the person of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and its regional offices. With a view to harmonising legislation, regulating the issue of land secession, and eliminating conflicts of norms of equal legal power, as well as increasing the investment attractiveness of privatization facilities. The project proposes to combine the processes of land secession and privatization of state property by delegateing powers to privatization authorities, to make State-appropriate sales contracts, other civil law agreements. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the delegation of authority mentioned relates exclusively to land areas where privatization facilities are located and does not extend to land that is freely transferred or sold to citizens. Local authorities are expected to continue to deal with the privatization of land, agricultural areas, as set out in the Ukrainian Land Code to date. There is also a need to draw attention to the question of the economic relevance of changing the management of land under privatization facilities. By combining the functions of the seller of privatization facilities and land areas in one person, it will finally be possible to bring together the privatization of land and other state property that is located in these areas into the only process that is being implemented under the sole civil law agreements. It should also be recalled that by combining privatization processes — small privatization and land estrangement — it will be possible to deprive buyers of these items of the waste of time and of the cost of carrying out additional procedures. Thus, the bill proposed by you is aimed at implementing the economic policy of the government, further developing property reform and strengthening the role of the state in these.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u140	Thank you, sit down, please. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Lechenko Vladimir Aleksyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u141	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Land Disengagement, registration number 7643, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with the aim of empowering public bodies to privatize the sale and lease of land that are subject to privatisation. And the committee notes that its adoption, this bill, violates the procedure established by the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on Land Rental in Part of the Administration of State and Municipal Ownership of Executive Authorities in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Local Government Administrations and Local Self - Government Authorities. In particular, the bill does not comply with articles 122, 123, 127, 136, 149, 150, 151 of the Transitional Regulations of the Earth Code and articles 4 and 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Rental. Furthermore, the bill is contrary to articles 14 and 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which property rights are acquired and implemented by citizens, legal persons and the State exclusively in accordance with the law, and not in an order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the material and financial basis of local self-government is the land, the natural resources owned by the territorial communities of villages, villages and cities. In spite of this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis, but the committee, in view of the above, has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be rejected as not in accordance with the Land Code, the Land Rental Act and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u142	Thank you. It's all clear. Dear colleagues, shall we discuss it? Two – “for”, two – “against”. Yuri Anatolyevich, I can't see. Please, Rabbit. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u143	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! A very complicated bill, and we need to weigh it very carefully before we press the button. Why? The fact is, to this day there is no distribution of land of municipal and state property. And if we put in place the principle that is being proposed today, we're going to create a mechanism, we're going to talk, we're going to push this land into the community's private hands, or maybe we don't know where, into these hands. That's right. But on the other hand, the government is well aware of the problem, and there is a problem. Because man buys property, takes land for long-term use, but this land is not used, no one pays for it, and once again the local budget has no income. On the other hand, such a mechanism terrorizes literally those who want to buy objects, especially small and medium - size businesses. People have been going there for years -- and they don't know how to solve this problem with this land. So, as you can see, it's just in these few seconds that I've drawn very big problems in understanding this law. So you have to recognize that there is a problem, and you have to understand that the land needs to be sold, but you have to take into account the interests of this community. From my point of view, in terms of the Ukrainian People's Party, it would be very good for us to adopt at least a law that regulates the sale of land, well, in small amounts, perhaps for this medium and small business. And we'd see how this process works. If we simply apply the principle in general, we will have great problems. Let us consider an example. In Kiev we see that there are enterprises in the middle of Kiev itself, in the center of Kiev with huge areas. Someone wants to buy a place. This room he'll even use as an office result. But the area, it's about tens or hundreds of hectares. And this land has great value. What is the proposal? This land would be put into a statutory fund and sell this kind of property with land, but again, what role would the community play in selling this land? That's why I want to say, people's deputies, that we are no less guilty of this situation than others, because we have failed to provide these problems with legislation to date and have failed to distribute the land to municipal and private property. So this situation, I'm telling you, it's very difficult for us to identify. But let's take some part of the blame both for ourselves and for speeding up the creation of this legislation, because if there is no legislation, you have to understand that there will always be mafia schemes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't get excited. Just think about it, it's better to sell the land once and take something or pay rent for this land every year, because there's nothing free. There's an office, but you pay for the land. It's not your property, but the city, the local government, it makes a profit out of it. Yes, please, Nadraga passes the word Vaschuk. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, I am absolutely in agreement with the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations that much of the articles of the Code of Earth are being violated, when we wrote it out, we remembered the very danger that the head of the subcommittee was talking about here, and the articles of the Constitution are being violated. But let's look from an economic point of view. If there were any nuances in the law that, let's say, when you go into small business, just as Ivan Alexanderovich the Rabbit spoke, a small area of land and the community agrees, that's one situation. And when an enterprise that works today and has a few tens of hectares of land and is told at the same time tomorrow that you have to buy this whole territory and make a huge amount of money, what is the situation in which we put our industry. Those state-owned enterprises that barely make ends meet, they are all lying. [[private, meant]] So there's a proposal for the next plan. Nevertheless, this bill is to be sent for further work and, taking into account the provisions of laws on the delimitation of state-owned property, on local self-government, on the Earth Code, to work out conditions that will suit both small businesses and large businesses, private spheres and, at the same time, to protect the interests of the communities, whether city communities or communities of the village. We all know the examples of an enterprise being bought in Kiev today, not for its sake, for it will be lifted up tomorrow, taken down and gone, but for the sake of a large area of land. And when the Law enters into force in that way, that is why we will “stretch our hands ” with such abuse. Therefore, the proposal is to send for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u146	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have received a bill that has not been properly drafted and has not been drafted in accordance with the requirements of the relevant documents. There's no comparative table. And so, in fact, it's almost impossible to understand this document in the way we got it. That's what I'm talking about, Adam Ivanovich, the point is that we're distributing these documents, handing them over to the MPs, and not looking at those requirements, but working hard for the MP. I think that I do not mean to say that there is an evil intention, but what makes it difficult for an MP to understand what is proposed in this Act is clear. The bill proposes to introduce the actual sale of property plots that are under facilities that are already privatized or subject to privatization. I believe that the Office of Ministers and Prime Minister Timoshenko are simply losing their heads. They offer mechanisms without thinking about the consequences that this will lead to. It has already been said that there is a shareholder whose share of the shares is largely personal. And today we get dividends, we get dividends, and we get something there. You can imagine, these enterprises are going to have to pay for this land today. Do we get dividends for these shares in the budget? Of course not. Let's move on. Today, there are enterprises that are subject to privatization, and their cost increases dramatically. Let's say we get extra income. Here it seemed that it was a one-time payment, which might be more beneficial for entrepreneurs to take this route than to pay a tax. The tax will still be here. Those who really want to buy land, speculate, still pay the tax. I believe that this bill leads to the real existence of our lives by the hidden speculation of the earth. And that's what they talked about today. There are a lot of enterprises that actually don't work, there's a job, there's a housing, there's businesses that don't work, there's businesses that don't work. You know, he still has to pay for this land, it's not real. So the price is still going to be, well, he's going to be bankrupt if he's still on the verge of bankruptcy. Companies such as the public enterprise as the Malisheva factory, airports, will pay crazy money. I believe that this law is completely wrong and that it cannot be supported in any case. And plus, indeed, paying attention, it is contrary to the current law that regulates land-use relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Alla Alexandrovna is absolutely right, so I'm addressing the appropriate structures of the Cabinet of Ministers, because we don't distribute, the Cabinet of Ministers is already giving us distributed bills that help us do this. I point out that, really, please note that there's always a comparative table for the bill. Yes, please, Mikoli Petrovich Noshchenka's microphone. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u149	Thank you. Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich 160 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. I'm trying to save our working time and prevent a repetition because the bill is small, the idea is understood, but I want to point out that this law has and is positive. We know that the process of privatization itself, and then the alienation of the land in a variety of ways, is the result of giving a certain reward, which is called a bribe. So they took two organs of bribes, now they're going to take one organ and give it to God so he doesn't double his fee. The other one. The law imposes a retroactive number of all the subjects who have been privatized to pay the land’s cost. All of this will be at the expense of the goods produced by the owner, regardless of the form of the property, or the cost of the service. This will be followed by an increase in daily demand prices, which have already increased so that no single wallet of the average Ukrainian can stand. So in order not to give any reason to increase the prices of my fellow MP Democratic Ukraine will not support this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues! It's Matthew's minute and Sulkovsky's. I promise we'll vote those who are recorded. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u151	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The question is indeed very difficult and not simple. Let's go back to the privatization process itself, we've divided into vouchers all the core funds we had in the country. The vouchers were distributed to virtually every citizen, including those who worked in colossae, neighborhoods, including workers and peasants. We divided the land, gave it to the peasants only, and I'm asking where is the share of the working mining, the steelworks that worked just as well for the colchuses and cohorts as the peasant worked for the creation of the main funds in the country. Today we ask the question interestingly, in a rather interesting way, let us make sure that we sell all the land that is under industry. I am not talking about the methodology of this law at all. He's nowhere to be and he needs to be canceled, that's perfectly clear. But I have a question a little further. Let us take a little look here from the point of view of justice and see how we should share this land in general, which is now under industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u152	You're right. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I am also joining previous speakers in saying that this bill does not need to be supported. There is no need for these problems, which this bill foresees and represents government, to be practically settled, these problems will be settled by the land market law. And here we are, when we adopt the land market law, we get rid of these problems. This is the first time. It's different. There's nothing for some government officials to do to make sure that our committee doesn't support this bill because it's really inconvenient and it's just unnecessary. Mostly. And today, with regard to voting on many other draft laws, you can only thank the officials of one Mr. Zvaricz, the minister of justice, who is really good at presenting draft laws. And they go through most of the votes in Parliament. What he needs to thank you for. He's the only one, we see, from government officials he respects parliamentarians. And we will support Mr. Zvaric, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u154	We'll see how you support him. The following laws are his. Shall we vote? Come on, Yuri Anatolyovich kept his mouth shut all day. Please, Carmazine's minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this project by the government, I remind you, is determined that the owners of privatized objects were obliged to buy the land that is under this facility. Thus, their commitment will lead to a sharp rise in the price, a rise in the price of what they produce. And so we're not going to get any benefits with you. We're going to get maybe the money. We have to ask questions about what they have the right to buy -- yes, create conditions for that -- yes, no questions. We need to make sure that it's not convenient for the earth to spread just so that it's parasitic. But it is not possible to ask such a question as is now laid down in this law. So I think this law needs to be rejected and I'm not voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u156	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on land alienation, registration number 7643. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:36]] For-75 There was an offer for rereading the first reading. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:10:59]] Z-91 Not accepted. The bill was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Bill 7182. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the right of detained and sentenced persons to be sent to the European Court of Human Rights]] I think there's no warning, let them write. Let us vote in the first reading on the amendment bill to some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 7182. [[on the right of detained and sentenced persons to be sent to the European Court of Human Rights]] Please vote. Vote. [[14:11:54]] For 254 The bill was adopted in the first reading, because there's a reference to science and science. Please, the profile committee, take into account the second reading, and I think that's it. Yes, Roman Mikhailovich, please. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on compensation for damage caused by the activities of the knowledge bodies]] Registration number 7359. Roman Mikhailovich, imagine for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. First, about the previous bill. I'd very much like a professional committee to take the scientific expertise into account. The Ministry of Justice supports these remarks. As far as this bill is concerned. The need for its adoption is that the provisions of existing legislation do not meet the requirements of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In accordance with this convention, anyone who is injured as a result of violations of their rights to freedom and personal integrity has the right to claim compensation for the harm done to him. National legislation strengthens the right to damages, but only in certain cases is the list complete. Yes, in accordance with article 2 of this Law, “On the Order of Compensation for Damage. ” I'm not going to be a part of the bill now, but let me just point out a few of its most basic positions. The situation is that a person who has been sentenced by the court and punished in the form of deprivation of liberty cannot claim compensation for violations of his or her rights to freedom and personal integrity even if he or she has been detained or taken into custody in violation of national law. So national legislation makes the distinction artificial, I want to emphasize, between those who might claim compensation for violating their rights, depending on whether they were found guilty. Whether they were condemned to punishment. Such a situation requires immediate resolution and correction. That's what the bill is for. Let me also point out that in this case the European Court of Human Rights has already ruled on a case of a precedent. ” against Slovenia” where the interpretation of the relevant convention rules corresponds to what I have already told you. That is, the position of the European Court is that the subjects of the right to compensation for unlawful deprivation of liberty are not only unconvictioned or justifiable persons. In this part, relevant Ukrainian legislation does not meet the requirements of the convention. In summary, the draft law is designed to bring national legislation into line with the most fundamental convention that regulates the dissemination of regulatory rules on human rights and freedoms. I'm asking yours very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-07-m0.u158	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Shall we vote? The profile committee, Maria Andriyevna, confirms that they're also in favor. We vote in our first reading of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on compensation for damage caused by educational activities, registration number 7359. Please be supportive. [[14:16:15]] For 263 Copy that. Let us, honourable colleagues, support in the first reading the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation, registration number 7472. [[on social adaptation of persons who have been punished with restrictions of will]] Let them work. Vote. Minister in favour, we vote. [[14:16:50]] For 259. Thank you. 259. Dear colleagues! We started the morning session today by welcoming our colleague in charge of the 65-year-old Head of the Loboda Committee. He has a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] Registration number 7595-d. Let's support the first reading. I'll put it to a vote. Vote. 7595-D. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] Please vote. Vote. [[14:17:50]] For-152. Yeah, well, factions and that's where we're going to end up. Our Ukraine is 2. We're tired, guys. Communists 54, Ukraine 26, People's Party 4, Timoshenko 32, Ukrainian People's Block 2, Socialists 16, Social Democrats 0, Ukraine 5, Democratic Ukraine 5, Industrial and Business Party 0, Ukrainian People's Movement 1, non-fractional 5. Dear colleagues, thank you for your fruitful work. I'm sorry I delayed you for three minutes. Tomorrow I'm going to give you this time, and I'm going to increase another minute by 2. This morning’s session is closed. Then we have work on committees and factions. I'll start tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
