ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] Registered -366 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Lapin Yevgen Vasilovich, who was 55 years old. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And let's also welcome Ckitishvili Enver Omarovich, who is also on today's birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am informing you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputy Dobkin Mikhail Markovich as part of the Party’s parliamentary faction “Region of Ukraine”. [[Applause]] As well as the exit of the Ukrainian national deputy, Joofe Yuli Yakovič, from the deputy faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all members of the national parliament to re-register at the request of the National Deputies. Please register. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:04:15]] So now there are 409 national deputies. Thank you, dear fellows. You know, by order of the President of Ukraine on the basis of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzka is appointed Attorney-General of Ukraine. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine is a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of the Supreme Council of Justice, members of the High Council of Justice take an oath before taking office at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the High Council of Justice applied to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for an oath by the High Council of Justice. To make an oath to a member of the High Council of Justice, the General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u2	I, Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. Member of the High Council of Justice, Medvedzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by the secretariat to make an announcement that because of the fact that Julius Yakovitch left the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, 13 national deputies remained in the faction. I'd like the faction's leadership to think about this problem, which is why you have two weeks. Honorable colleagues, two factions, in accordance with Rule 3.4. 11. please announce a 30-minute break to reconcile positions. This is the faction, factions – “Ukraine” and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Do you make a statement right away? The statement will be made by Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished Attorney-General, I would like to ask you to hear a statement made by the faction. More and more often, freedom of speech was the main merit of the new power. Indeed, statements had become so free that the current authority had stopped listening, responding and noticing. The most outstanding example of this is the statements made by the investigator in the particularly important cases of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Jakov Taktashova, on 1 November this year. Taktashu reported that the case of the President of the Donetsk Regional Council, the leader of the Donetsk branch of the Party of the Regions, Boris Kolesnikov, had been fabricated by law enforcement agencies from the very beginning. Taktasho has accused a number of officials of the current authorities of falsifying the investigation into Kolesnikov. In particular Deputy Mr. Genprocuror Victor Shokin, Minister of the Interior of Gennady Moskal. These officials could only be carried out under the direct direction of Mr. Piscoon, former Prosecutor General, himself. Day and night, speaking on all television channels, he misled society and the leadership of the country. We do not understand why the new leadership of the Attorney-General does not respond to his colleague's statement. The faction of the regions requires the Office of the Attorney-General, and here you have promised that Taktasov's statement will be subject to a comprehensive review of all figures. First of all, the country's main political killer, Mr. Piscoun. At the same time, we require the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the observance of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, together with the Office of the Prosecutor-General, to consider without delay any evidence of the falsification of the Kolesinkov case and the outcome of the consideration to report to Parliament this week, no later than Thursday, 17. Furthermore, the faction of the regions believes that, within the stated and signed objectives of the memorandum, President Yushchenko must provide political assessments and conclusions on the illegality of the case against Kolesnikov. All of this, together with an investigation into the objectivity of the case, with the punishment of the perpetrator of falsification, will be a guarantee for the improvement of the political atmosphere in our society before the 2006 elections, and in practice testifies to the failure of power to prosecute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u5	Yes. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft law on security. Please log in with the procedure for five minutes. Please sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Peter Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u7	Peter Simonenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u8	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that you have also experienced the dissatisfaction of the Ukrainian people after the affair conducted by Pinzenik on behalf of the government, voting for Project 8156, which has been hidden in practice, let's say, an idea concerning the level of pensions and in this regard people are not only indignant today, but they are willing to go and not only to demand, but also to throw this temporary government out of the chairs, which is what we say today is. The Communist faction proposed Project 8445, which envisions urgent consideration today of the problem of limiting the maximum size of pensions, the size of pensions, and the order in which to do so. But I would like to point out that all of this began with a secret agreement on the level of wages of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u9	Yes. Mikola Komar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the floor to a member of the faction “Region of Ukraine” of Stoyan Aleksandr Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u11	Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u12	Honorable colleagues, national MPs, distinguished voters. We support the recent statement by the leader of the Communist Party that we need to deal immediately with the salaries that officials have set up for themselves from the offer of Julia Timoshenko. Now they're doing everything they can to transfer responsibility to the national MPs and put us on the ground. The MPs had nothing to do with this. So the Party of Regions requires immediate distribution of the decrees, we also have our own draft decree, and you will undo this disgraceful phenomenon when the people are poor, the government officials have set themselves thousands of wages. Please include this in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u13	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! I think we need to talk to the Cabinet of Ministers and ask questions of the next order. The Supreme Council passed a decree that it also legislates that subsidies to the population are accrued only from the amounts that people receive. Regrettably, the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to charge grants determines the full amount that is included in the accruals. That is, because of two, three, ten bracelets, people are deprived of housing subsidies. And I think we need to consider this today because we need to understand one thing, people should have the right to receive subsidies based on the amounts they receive. And the ephemeral amounts with all the contributions, that is, excuse me, the political achinia, for which there is a reluctance to pay subsidies to the population. I think a faction of the Lithuanian people's bloc will support me in this regard, and I would like to be supported by other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u15	Boris Jakovič Bespalij, “Our Ukraine” faction, and Boris Jakovič is also a representative of the government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so please listen to his thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! In this case, I appeal to all of you, dear fellows! It seems to me that you all agree that the best answer to all of our challenges and challenges is to look at the greetings of the day and have the right decisions. Any question we can solve isn't as much, though, statements and declarations as it is when we're looking at agenda issues. So I wanted to look to you for support both in this case and from the Cabinet of Ministers, but also from our faction, let's just accept, let's take a quiet look at the issues of the order of the day, and there all the problems you've been talking about have found their reflection. So we suggest that we go in a day-to-day manner and solve all problems exclusively by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u17	Muchin, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u18	Please give the floor to Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u19	Mikola Rudzikovsky microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u20	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please ask our faction to address the head of the government immediately, to repeal this decree of 30 June 2005 to increase the salaries of officials, including members of the national parliament. Because it turns out that the 15,000 who get ministers and national MPs, that's what we wanted. The socialists, by the way, have introduced the law they propose to amend the law so that the government doesn't charge us and limit the wages of both deputies and ministers. And to increase it along with the rise in citizens' income. Secondly, I ask that you urgently turn from Parliament to the head of the Central Electoral Commission, who violates the ruling of the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court, and the Melnicke are not allowed to become a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u21	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. With regard to the proposal that has been made, to consider regulation 8445 and a number of other regulations on this subject, more specifically, laws and regulations, I would like to ask the committee to consider them tomorrow with a view to voting and making a decision on Thursday. I would ask the secretariat to plan, as appropriate, so that we, among the first to consider these proposals, will all make the necessary decisions and decisions. Please, Assad's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the Conciliation Council yesterday, virtually everyone agreed that the Supreme Council should review legislation on the limitation of pensions. There were no more objections. Then let's be honest. Yes, the Supreme Council will adopt the Law on Retirement Restrictions, and we will then appeal to the government to cancel the shameful decree on wage increases. And I think it's going to be a normal harmonised process, and everyone has to correct their mistakes, which are actually negatively reflected in Ukrainian society. So let's either introduce these bills today, where they're ready, all of these legislations that are known to restrict pensions, or let's go to the complex, as you suggest on Thursday. You may and so may, but I believe that the Supreme Council is obliged to correct its mistakes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u23	Come on, fellows of honor! On Thursday, we will consider an appropriate set of draft laws and regulations and make a comprehensive decision. Although this is not a mistake of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for honourable colleagues, Ukrainian national deputies, we made a decision yesterday at the Conciliation Council, which is to say that the wages of the Ukrainian national deputies will not increase. And yesterday an order was signed. So I think we've made a comprehensive decision on this. Announcing the draft Law on Health Institutions for consideration, such a regulation is proposed. The interviewer will give up to five minutes, answers to questions in three minutes, for a co-report, three minutes, discussion and decision-making in 15 minutes. Is there no objection? I can't see. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Dmitrovich Bondarenko. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u24	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. “Reforms and Orders”, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! You have reason to think about a bill that deals with the very important aspects of our lives, the medical field, and health care. It is said that today’s realities have created conditions in which both state - called, or budgetary, budgets, both public and local, health care facilities, private clinics, clinics, which are owned by certain authorities, including law enforcement agencies, and certain economic systems. In particular, railways and military personnel, who once again have conditions and order to provide medical services, including pensioners from these areas. There has been a situation where there has been a real inequality in the provision of health care and treatment for Ukrainian citizens. This is the first thing that led us to adopt this Law. When we analyzed the situation with so-called, budgetary medical institutions, we noticed that the budget funding system itself is a pretty good thing if this budget funding provided at least the average level of activity of these institutions, not the lowest, as it is today, because it only financed the articles related to wages and generally not funded, or little funding for articles related to the provision of new equipment, inventory and waste materials. At the same time, other health - care clinics, but with private status, or reputational status, have better security and thus are now taking over those citizens who are able to pay for these services at a different level. At the same time, those with no funds remain, so - called, state medicine, which is completely unable to provide, unfortunately, the level that is in other institutions. In addition, we have observed that so - called state medicine is within the framework of very serious restrictions that are caused by the impersonality of health institutions and, above all, that they are under the authority of district health authorities, public health authorities, district health authorities, and public health authorities, unable to determine on their own their own schedule, their financing principles, and the principles of efficient use of technology and equipment. There has also been a situation of budgetary funding when institutions are located across the street, through the road, but one belongs to the area and is financed from the district budget or from the district budget, while the other belongs to the city and is financed from the city budget. I can give an example of the city of Priluka, where there is literally a city hospital and a district hospital: both half-empty, both are used, both are maintained by large personnel and their status is caused not only by the fact that they are financed from different budgets and because of the efficiency of the use and equipment and the premises themselves, as well as by the staff there will never be, because so far there is such a practice of limiting because they are financed from different budgets. We have studied the experiences of countries of the former SND, including: Armenia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, some others, and there have become a completely different form of medical organization that takes all these circumstances into account. Thus, the bill first aims to give a completely different level of autonomy to medical institutions when maintaining budgetary financing and control by the municipal authorities or on the part of public authorities, such as the Ministry of Health. This will enable the efficient use of technology that is lacking, including the very expensive medical technology that is now dispersed in the department or at various budgetary institutions, to be used only for citizens who officially represent a particular region. For example, a person in the area can't be examined on a high-quality device that belongs, for example, to a city, that's not normal. We believe that this leads to the inaccessibility of many medical services to citizens. We also want to address some of the problems involved in determining the optimum number of medical institutions. Today, this number is being developed in administrations, medicine, and above all, it provides the same level of state funding for all regions, although there are problems of a local nature, the tendency for one or more diseases in one area or another could be different, depending on the circumstances of one institution or another. I'd like to support this bill in the first reading and then work with both the Supreme Council Committee and the experts and all the national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the question to Vladimir Dmitrovitch, if there is, please write it down. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u26	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Volodymyr Dmitrovich, you said you've studied the experience of the former SND countries. Have you also studied the experience of the former Republic of the Soviet Union now in Belarus, where free medicine is available? Now, indeed, the institutions of medicine are in a pitiful state. Don't you think it's being done by the bourgeois government and those governments that were, and by the bourgeois state, so medically simple people don't have access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u27	Thank you. I want to say that both the example of Belarus and the example of Sweden, for example, and many Western European countries show that there can be free medicine in the system of capitalist relations and in the socialist system. In Sweden, for example, no Swedish citizen pays for medical services, and the state assumes this responsibility. There's insurance somewhere. So it depends on the practice of implementing one direction or another. I support what was done today in Belarus. Because that's where this sector is in state funding, and I'm sure it works a little bit better today than unfortunately we do. We have also noticed that there is a terrible imposition of drugs on citizens, medicines that they need and do not need. Today, on television, we have direct propaganda for and enforcement of drugs, and the number of medicines purchased per year has increased by 250 million. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} From 750 million in the previous year to a billion in 2004. These are terrible indicators. Because health in principle remains what it is, well, it may have gotten a little worse. That's why I want to say that this law just provides for the ability of these so-called budgetary institutions to receive budgetary funding, including other forms of funding. It's impossible to even involve funding for a budget institution today, it's not even a subscription, it can't be accepted. And the state code imposed by central medical authorities does not allow for a reduction, for example, in the number of people who are not fully needed and to be added elsewhere. That's why all these issues are resolved by this bill. We get a normal save, at least at that level of budget funding plus supplements from local budgets, from central funds, from non-budget funds, and from other organizations that, for example, can make a health contract for budgetary financing, some labor force, and pay for an extra. Then it'll be understandable there. Today it just can't be implemented there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u28	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u29	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Dmitrovich, first question. Today, the basics of Ukraine’s health legislation are valid. What is the logic of the need to make a distinction between these basics and your bill? Because he contradicts each other in many ways. That's the first question. And the second. You predict as financing, this is probably the main problem of our medicine today, the lack of alternative sources of funding, the financing of mandatory social insurance funds. Decrypt, please, what do you mean, exactly what funds do you have in mind to finance health care facilities? And what is the cost of voluntary health insurance funds? It is not a secret that you personally and your faction have been categorically opposed to the adoption of a bill in this room on mandatory public social health insurance. Two questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u30	Thank you. Well, it's not two questions, it's a few. First. I would like to say that this law really solves some of the problems that, in our view today, in the legislation on health protection in Ukraine is outdated. They are now such that they have lost their relevance or need improvement. First of all, I would like to stress, once again, the overlap that arises from the budgetary financing of health institutions that actually exist next door, in the district center, both the district and the city hospitals, but is financed from various budgets and serves different categories of citizens — residents of the rural district and the district center itself. And there's a paradox. If there's no funding or low level, we can't in any way overturn the potential of that region by another. This is absolutely necessary to be corrected. Well, the functioning of medical institutions as non-self-consolidating operators in the district health or district health management system does not allow them to finance them as a business union and to solve some problems of rational use of technology and personnel in activities no longer just as a budgetary institution, as a host institution to self-balance. I mean, it's also settled. Regarding the problems of the funds that you mentioned, well, you realize that it was about those funds of compulsory health insurance that you were talking about, we need to make a transparent system of filling them up and implementing the funds from these funds. Because, in our view, today’s system allows managers to manipulate medicine, to whom and to what costs to direct. As long as this system is not transparent, it will be built on the decision of the official, not on a pattern that is approved and that will work on its own, of course, it will be another field for major abuses, as today, by the way, there are also purchases of some of the state's, including in the field of medicine. We know how they lobby for foreign products, then other products. And this lobbying could be about the distribution of the funds. So we're talking about a clear and clear scheme for filling these funds that doesn't burden too many employers and a clear distribution of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u31	Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Igor Mikhailovich Shurma, deputy head of the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u32	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a draft of the Ukrainian Health Institutions Act, which is designed by Ukrainian National Deputies Bondarenko and former Deputy Minister Polishchuk. The purpose of the bill is to improve the institutional and economic principles of health institutions. The committee points out that the bill has tried to solve problems, and for many years now it has hampered the development of the domestic health system. The Health, Maternal and Childhood Committee sees a progressive bill regarding the provision of health care facilities to self-employed persons and the extension of the possibility of extra-budgetary funds to improve their material and technical base and to modernize medical equipment, as well as standardization of health services in health institutions. Decisions on these issues at the legislative level should allow for the creation of favourable conditions for the development of health facilities for all forms of property, ensuring the efficient use of human and material resources, improving the quality of the provision of health care and the health services provided to the population by these institutions. Despite the general benefit of the proposed draft law, it should be noted that it has a number of significant shortcomings and does not take into account the budgetary, economic, civil, and organizational principles of health institutions. The main scientific and expert apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has an important point to make to the draft law. The Committee is ready to further develop these observations and improve the Ukrainian Health Institutions Bill and has decided to support it and recommend that it be accepted as a basis for further work. A travel meeting of the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood held in Donetsk indicated that the necessary funding for health facilities today is between 45 and 50 percent. One billion, the other one does not change the health situation. Thus, without the adoption of a basic law on compulsory social insurance, the health system will not change or begin to reform. So we are convinced that without this basic law, intermediate steps will not do anything because this bill testifies to one thing: you can never be a little pregnant. Either the institutions are state-owned or they are financed according to the laws in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please have the names of the national MPs who have signed up for the discussion. Yes, we agreed for 15 minutes. Sergey Žizko, faction of our Ukraine, please. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Sergei Žizko, “Our Ukraine”. Although the bill under consideration contains a number of constructive proposals, I think it is somewhat premature. Let me explain why. Unfortunately, the health sector has long been transformed into one of the areas directly contributing to the moral degradation of society, such as bribery and corruption. Why, for example, are there no low-paid job offers for younger health - care workers in the labour market? But because every nurse carries at least 50 of the bribes received for the minor services of the sick each day. And doctors may not take so much, but on a much larger scale, medical activities called rental, licensing, lobbying for pharmaceutical companies, and so forth. Try to estimate the sums that go from the pockets of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens to the pockets of health workers and medical institutions in the form of so - called, humanitarian aid. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of money in this year's amount compared to budgetary funding for medicine. We all understand that the sources of this in the health sector's poverty. But let's get out of the fact that the moral recovery of society is a priority, and we don't have the right to close our eyes on the criminogenicity and corruption of medicine. I don't think the situation is hopeless. And I'd like to ask the ministries, "What are the functions of dozens of workers, and in fact, of corruption bacillonis, who hold permanent positions in the district and city health departments?" I'm sure that the poor medical condition will not worsen by the fact that the number of people who are supposed to be responsible for it will be less. This is due to a determined reduction in the number of states around medical work that almost doubles medical personnel’s salary. This is the budget reserve that can be set aside from the following year. We also need to deal with states in large medical institutions. Because it is not a secret that there is a significant percentage of dead souls in regular positions, whose wages are redistributed among employees. There is also a problem with the corruption of health - care providers. It should be determined to update the management structure, open the way for young people who have not yet been involved in corruption schemes. Thus, without establishing an elementary order in the medical field, the adoption of this bill makes no sense. Supervisory boards will turn into boards of taxpayers and tax collectors, and tenders will be criminalized, resulting in the passing of pharmacology, and privileged non - state medical institutions will receive budgetary funding. So I'd like to draw the Ministry's attention to clearing up the Auggie stations, and we'll move the bill back to re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u35	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u36	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Reforming health care in Ukraine is essential, and it must take place to improve medical conditions. We are already used to reforms in Ukraine being carried out at the cost of social executions. Similarly, reforming the health - care system seems to be something someone would like to do at the expense of the civilian population, at the expense of many human lives. In the long run, in the face of a sharp shortage of funds, the shadow market for medical services has been dramatically activated. More and more health care is being paid, and the availability of health care for different types of people is increasing, in violation of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution on free medical care. Regrettably, the cost of health care for one Ukrainian citizen is 111 percent of the world’s 190 countries. In Ukraine, more than 60 percent of the funds allocated are paid and credited to the health - care fund. It is well - known that if more than 30 percent of the health - care expenditure in a working - wage drink is lost, this indicates that there is no workflow. Thus, health resources are virtually exhausted and without the decisive implementation of the reform of the sector to keep the health of the population under control primarily for infectious diseases and diseases that cause most of the deaths and disability of people of working age who have reached a critical limit will not be possible. And unfortunately, medical advances in Ukraine are not widely available. This is evidenced by the alarming fact that in Ukraine a third of the dead children were separated from living at home. Because their parents didn't go to the doctors because of their financial difficulties. And it hurts to talk about it, but health spending in our country is up to 4% of GDP. If the share of GDP in health needs is less than 5, this is evidence of industry’s incapacity. And how such a law can be supported, it may need to be redrafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u37	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u38	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, outside the title of the bill, have certain qualities of appeal. It is aimed at identifying the organizational, legal, and economic principles of the health institutions of Ukraine in the context of its capitalization and the destruction and medicine that existed until now. The appropriateness of adopting this bill raises doubts, since the order of reorganization and liquidation of legal persons to whom health care facilities are certainly relevant is well defined by the current legislation of Ukraine, including the Ukrainian Code of Masters, should a city be rebuilt? It is proposed that health institutions should be regulated in the form of state licensing, professional certification of health workers, accreditation of health facilities, and that this is clearly in the order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the main thing about these bills is the change in the funding of health institutions. It is proposed that health - care facilities be financed at the expense of: first, health benefits from the State or local budgets; secondly, funds from compulsory social insurance funds; thirdly, funds from voluntary health insurance funds; fourthly, charitable contributions from individuals and legal persons; and lastly, other incomes not prohibited by law. [[I'm immersed in excitement.]] Therefore, honourable colleagues, the draft law, de facto, is aimed at destroying the free medicine provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. The Communist faction will not support this bill for the following reasons. First of all, he's continuing to pursue a policy of developing paid medicine, which is that with the total poverty of the population of Ukraine, which will be doomed to extinction from disease. And secondly, the privatization of health facilities will lead to the final collapse of the sector. I beg you all very much. And the centrists and those who disguise themselves as left centerists, the more under the left, they don't support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u39	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u40	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian National Block. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor. Thanks to the impatience of the State, whose reform efforts today are far from being followed by the turbulent development of social relations, the situation in the field of domestic medicine is not in the best interest of the latter. Under crisis conditions, public health institutions are at the brink of survival. Finally, they do not meet the standards of life declared in the Constitution, nor do they meet the challenges that society has called for. In practice, these losses are measured by a large number of human lives. Thus, the proposed legal system proposes to eliminate existing restrictions on health - care facilities as self - care subjects, that is, to regulate the process of transition to the principles of self - control and new technologies in the medical field. This is about decentralization of health management and it is certain that it is important that the budget is being set up in part of the cost of maintaining it. In addition, the introduction of this bill will help to promote better quality medical personnel, since the director of the medical facility will be given real weight to encourage the work of health workers. The adoption of this bill will also allow for the elimination of distortions in the form of state ownership, the legislative determination of the status of health institutions and the order in which they are created and eliminated, and the legal and economic relations between health institutions and other operators. Above all, there will be a real opportunity to ensure the legislative right of citizens to receive timely, qualified and quality medical care, which means that dozens and hundreds of human lives will be preserved and the health of Ukrainians will be improved. The People's Party faction therefore asks its colleagues to support the bill as a valid bill aimed at mobilizing available resources to improve the quality, efficiency and accessibility of medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u41	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people, we did not accept this Constitution, which is guaranteed in article 49, that the State creates conditions for effective and accessible health care for all citizens, in public and municipal health institutions, medical care is provided free of charge, and the existing network of such facilities cannot be reduced. For that. It was I who quoted the standard of the Constitution, article 49, so now it's completely this. What do I mean? I'm referring to article 7 of this project, "The Elimination of Public Health." I appeal to those who have now adopted this law. Open this article and you will see that it clearly contradicts this Constitution. It says here: The decision to eliminate a public health institution is taken by its owner. The decision should determine the form and means of providing medical care to those who have used the health care facility. The health care facility does not stop its work until three months after the decision to shut down the facility. It's quotes again, but it's from the 7th project. What do you want with the law? What do you want with this system? Any law establishing legal organizational, economic, and social principles for health, social relations in this area is certainly part of the regulation of the basics of Ukrainian health legislation. That is where changes and additions should be made if they bring something new and good. This law is based on the Constitution and is made up of these foundations. And the reform of health care, the improvement of the mechanism, the management of health institutions at all levels must only be addressed comprehensively by making changes, I stress, to the basics of health legislation. They're absolutely not in line with the Ukrainian Budget Code, they can't be rules for the regulation of the bill, they can't put the articles of Chapter 5 in the health care sector. Next. According to standards, the bill may be divided into articles that are divided into sections and paragraphs. There is no division of articles in the paragraphs by normative documents. Next. It says here that the implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other costs. Along with this, the Ministry of Finance concluded: “Minfin does not see the relevance of the adoption of the draft Law on Health Institutions, both in law and in economic terms.” Moreover, there are still countless shortcomings that show that this law is better off not to adopt than to destroy what we have. Thank you, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi. Please, you've got one minute left.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine”, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, if this bill were to seek alternative financing for health care, I would believe that it would want to reform something. Reforming in the name of reform will do no good. I want to tell you that we see all of us as the "orange" authorities, free of charge by "fostering" all the financial and economic potential that Janukovic's government has accumulated, has suggested a new phenomenon: debt on salaries among budgeters, including medics. Majors, remember, zero-seventy-five-zero-five bets are transferring our medical staff today, sort of, to get a high salary. And one more thing. Reform can be only when I agree with my colleague Karmazin when changes are made to the basics of health legislation. In view of the fact that the bill is designed, it does not offer the principal legislative sources of financing for the health care system — it must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Just a minute. So I'd like to ask, we have a number of people here, if they insist, one minute with the motivation that we usually have. Sergey Shevchuk, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u46	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, believes that this bill does contain a number of new points that are somewhat contrary to the findings of the Constitutional Court and some of the laws of Ukraine. And there's also a negative conclusion of scientific expertise. Yet our faction believes that health reform is an urgent task today. That's why we think that this law should be further developed, and we're taking it to the knowledge that the Profile Committee has expressed its willingness to finalize this bill. We will also insist that a bill on patients' rights be put into the agenda of the day session, which has not been discussed in the Supreme Council for the second year. That is, the BUT faction also by its own power, by its experts, joins in the drafting of the bill and will vote positively in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u47	Sergey Matvienkov, are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Matvienkov, 55th Mariupol County. Of course, a law has long been needed to deal with the situation in medicine today. In general, we have had a paradoxical situation, we have recorded free medical care in the Constitution, but at the same time, the State has left a zero-budgeted doctor who does not know what to do and how to treat the sick. On the other hand, the patient who comes to the doctor gets a list of what he has to bring -- drugs, lights, bandages and so on. And to date, who will tell you how, or what process, the relationship between a doctor and the patient is regulated. And this is the third record in the Constitution that says that free medicine. In large numbers, it's a mockery of both the doctor and the patient who comes to this doctor. I am asking a question today, and I have looked closely at this law, whether it will solve these problems that we are talking about today and which everyone understands. I can definitely say that he's not going to decide anything, as he's giving us today. That is why we all need to look at this problem globally today. Not just.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u49	Yes, John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u50	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I think we will also agree with the thesis that today we need to consider the problem of health care in a comprehensive way. And especially because of considering such a problem as a set of management tools. No one today can deny that today the head of the health care facility of the budgetary institution is limited in the use of many such tools. He can't determine the optimum structure or anything else. So we still have to think about how to change the status of this budget institution, how to expand the possibilities, because it also depends on the services of people who come to the clinic or the hospital, so we can't just turn away from this bill, but we need to use it as a reason to help the health sector, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u51	Who else is insisting, yes, please, He blows one minute and then one minute Bondarenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u52	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] You know, our doctors, nurses, and paramedics need to put up a gold monument for their lives that they work for such a payday and under such conditions. And no doubt this is due to the fact that health problems today are not regulated at the legislative level and the law is needed. But it is not a law that grossly ignores the principles of budgetary financing for the organizational structure and status of health institutions established by the Budget, Economic, and Civil Codes. Today, in order to remove the problem we are talking about and to enable the same doctors to earn money, and if there is sufficient normal funding, we are obliged to open up additional sources of funding. This is possible only in one instance when we are here, in the session room, voting in favour of the National Social Insurance Act. And only after that can additional legislation be adopted that will make it easier to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u53	Vladimir Bondarenko, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u54	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Reforms and Orders”, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful and thank you on behalf of the authors of this bill who are concerned about the state of medicine. And above all, thank you to the factions of the Supreme Council who have seen some improvements in this Law in the direction of reforming medicine, creating new conditions that would allow better service to our citizens. I do not fully understand some of the allegations that the Law provides for the reduction of medical facilities. We're not talking about cuts, we're talking about optimal use of small costs, and we're talking about equipment and personnel, which today actually overlaps in the same areas. But once again, Mr. Carmazin, the point is that there are hospitals in the district center, both district and city. Both are half-empty, from the point of view of equipment, personnel half-empty and half-empty. Yes, it is not clear that by concentrating on opportunities and maintaining one facility to the full, providing standard service for citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u55	Thank you, Volodymyr Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A proposal for adoption by the Committee is submitted to the vote on the basis of the draft Health Institutions Act, registration number 5426. Please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:57:43]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Yes. What's the committee's offer? There's no other offer on the committee? There isn't! The bill was rejected. I'm asking for a committee proposal! Okay! There's an offer! I'll be right there. To determine the MPs. I am voting for re-reading the draft Health Institutions Act. Registration number 5426. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:58:33]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on ensuring equal access to the media is being announced. The rapporteurs of Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch and the committee will speak on behalf of the Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko. Such Rules of Procedure are proposed. Your attention, please. For the report, within 3 minutes, the answer to the question to the reporter is 3 minutes, for the co-report, 3 minutes. Discussion and decision-making are offered here for five minutes, perhaps give me 15 minutes if there is no objection. An important question. No objections? We approve this rule. Please, Valery Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u56	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor! Members of our nation and Western grantors, who provide colossal sums for the creation of so-called independent media in Ukraine, assure us all that, as if after the orange births in Ukraine, more freedom of speech has increased. Actually, that's not true. Because, as before, we have, say, powerful media outlets that have shared the information field of Ukraine and have only a single point of view of their master, their master. And along with sociologists, they manipulate the consciousness of the broadest levels of the population. Actually, that's not true. Because we still don't have independent means of information, because each one has a financial or political master behind it. Because as they worked, let's say, in the media, we have most propagandists, not journalists, and they continue to have to work out propaganda money. Because freedom of speech does not mean that a journalist can speak and show anything he wants. Freedom of speech is primarily a responsibility to society. And we have a pluralistic society today. And if the media gives one point of view, it must give a completely different point of view. By the way, there are examples that, let's say a few points of view that exist in information tools, we have, I'm not going to call them addresses, I'd like to refer only to "The Voice of Ukraine," so let's say, simply by definition, to express different points of view. The rape that went up in the media today on the basis that it's like the election law shows that journalists don't want to be journalists, they want to comment on programs, they want to. Please comment on the programs, but use them and be responsible for your position. Because in the world, let's say this is an interesting principle in journalists: 95 percent is first of all facts and only 5 percent are comments. Let's say we have in Ukraine, unfortunately, quite the opposite: 5 percent are facts and 95 percent are comments, different rumors circulating in society. The proposed law is precisely about ensuring equal opportunities, that is, today it is not only about freedom of the media, about freedom of their organization, not only about freedom, let's say, for journalists, but also about freedom of speech for citizens. Because freedom of speech is pluralism of thought, it's a palette of thoughts that exist in society. And this law just provides for citizens to have equal access to the media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u57	Yes, dear colleagues, please ask your questions. Yes, sign up. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u58	Dear Valery Dmitrovich, we appeal to civil society and to create equal opportunities in such civil society for every member of this society. Please tell us, are such concepts as citizens of the Soviet Union and citizens of the United States equivalent? And how would the ordinary Ukrainian figure out what civil society is and who it is, and who it should protect, and especially the journalists we're talking about right now, which citizen they're protecting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u59	Well, it's not about protecting citizens in this case. The point is that a citizen, if he belongs to a particular party or, let's say, a party, a public organization, if given in non-partisans, I emphasize that the media, which they call themselves independent, if there's one point of view, should be another point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u60	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u61	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the political party of the regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Peckushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u62	Alexander Paklusenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u63	Dear colleague, me and my faction colleagues share your pain, and we are in solidarity with you. We understand that today there is a dull cloning of the country, a dull imposition of thoughts, thoughts, aspirations, programs. But we would like to know: what are the mechanisms for this equal access, what is the guarantee? We understand that the media and the private media will not be able to break private property. Would that not be populism on our part? That's the first one. Second. In the fight for order in the media, there is only one mechanism: not to read ordering newspapers, not to watch cloning television. And I'm giving you a guarantee that it really is. What are your mechanisms and guarantees?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u64	Well, the mechanism is, above all, the law itself. This law sets out the principles on which, let's say, the media, regardless of the form of ownership, does not refer to forms of ownership. This is primarily about non-party media, regardless of who is the “founder”. Just as we would allow employers, regardless of their forms of ownership, society is imposing some special restrictions on them, let's say, in a way or another. Next. I understand. And so on. There is a special article that assumes that an independent court, as we believe, must determine that the principles of this equal approach to the media are violated, and the court has the right to determine, so to speak, the appropriate punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u65	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u66	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Valery Dmitryevich, would you please say, and how do you propose in the law to write out a mechanism that will force the media, as it says, to have some trend towards a political party's position to oblige them to speak accordingly, so to speak, from a different point of view? [[to make - stress]] I mean, what kind of mechanism is it? Because desire is desire, and the mechanism is a little different. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u67	Legal mechanism, first and foremost. There's a right and there's a tradition, there's a moral. There is no media law in Britain, but there is a special commission in Parliament. And if, let's say, a person turns to that commission and demands denial, journalists usually do not bring the matter to trial. Obviously, we are talking about the fact that if, let's say, the media -- the newspaper, the magazine, television and so on -- doesn't want to do that, then there's an article here that the court has to make a commitment, even as we have before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u68	Yes, Valery Dmitrovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the bill proposed by a colleague of Mishur and co-authors of this bill is not official; it is not ordinary; it calls both for, and against, it is perfectly understandable. And we've debated at a committee meeting for a long time and not even once. However, the committee supports this bill and asks it to accept it in the first reading for further work, for legal development and so on. Where did we come from? We came from the fact that large capital today actually monopolized the opinion of citizens. And that's obvious. If society gives the capital such a luxury as to impose the idea of this capital and to practice its ideology and so on, and so forth, and, excuse me, its lies, let this capital do grace and print the opposite point of view if it has luxury, and this whole society has created it, this luxury at last, to impose its own. So, please, don't ask your opponent for money, as it were, because he doesn't have it, print it on your own account. This will save society from the monopolization of thought. Society needs to protect itself, society needs to know different perspectives. And this is one of the mechanisms to make it available, that is, to protect us from imposition of thought. And then the owners of the editions, the editorial groups and so on, when they know that there is such a law, the very fact that this law exists will work against the monopoly in the opinion. It will be observed, as it were, to lie unrelentingly, and so on this subject can be developed. In a word, the committee asks, considering all the pros and cons, taking into account, as it were, the irregularity of this law, we ask you, your honourable colleagues. To accept it in the first reading, society will only win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u70	Please move on to the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov. Prepare Sergey Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The principle of equality and citizens' access to the media, both at Kuchma and at Yushchenk, does not apply. And there is no doubt that manipulation and propaganda is the style of the work of today's government, where information works in the form of a triangle. The principle must first be fulfilled: Not to be said; then, if the word has spoken, not to be heard, and finally, if heard, to give an appropriate response, but far away from the truth. Today’s “transparent” and “pure hands” authorities daily pursue a policy of suppressing freedom of speech. And we are witnessing that the protection of the information interests of the people and the state does not suit national interests. The well - known Ukrainian journalists are concerned about certain negative trends that have recently arisen in the relationship between, so - called, new power, the President, and journalists. As we can see, the new authorities and the President himself do not view the criticism that is coming to their attention from the media, and they generally view it as a political order. And as a result of such trends, there may again be a problem with freedom of speech during future parliamentary elections. So with the start of the new political season and the pre-election campaign in Ukraine, the new focus is on the role of domestic media in modern social and political processes to ensure citizens' access to information. For this reason, factionists point out that without the active participation of journalists in the true enlightenment of the electoral process, it is impossible to ensure that Ukrainian citizens have the right to vote. The Communists, on one occasion calling on journalists to remain faithful to the profession of a journalist, not an orderly pianist. It is the self-respect of the professional dignity of the journalist that determines the choice of millions of people in March 2006, the way Ukraine will go, the speed of change for the better in the middle of the state, and the way it will be treated in the world. This depends on the journalist, for he is heard and read by millions in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u72	Sergey Žizko, please follow him, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u73	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill that we are considering is obviously pre-election, and although it has a small volume, it contains many comments. In particular, the classification of the media in article 1 should be improved, in addition to the national and municipal media, to include corporate groups that include party, intelligence, industry, religion, and so on. And also private. And then there would be no need to invent the artificial term “non-partisan media”. In fact, the bill leaves out electronic media that are today the most numerous and usually private or corporate. The requirements set out in Article 2 can only be extended to state and municipal media, as owners of private or corporate media have the right to disseminate any information within the limits permitted by law, and no one can oblige them to disseminate any information they do not care about. These requirements, if applied to private or corporate media, would violate the constitutional rights of citizens and would conflict with article 9, section 2, of the Information Act. Notice, however, that the formulation of the requirements of article 2 requires certain additions and clarifications, which are highlighted by the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Since the bill does not determine the extent to which it is responsible for violating its rules, even its approval will not guarantee against unscrupulous political advertising and advertising, from the total pyariance of a single political power. I therefore propose to reject this bill and support the proposal from the scientific and expert board, namely: constructive ideas in the project, together with the establishment of a measure of responsibility for violations of the law, to make changes and additions to the existing laws of Ukraine: information, television and radio broadcasting, printed media media – press in Ukraine, election of people's deputies, and also to the Civil Procedures Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u74	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. He'll be followed by Vasil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, today the media has become a way of peering into a castle well and providing television through screens, especially as a means of looking for some truth. I can compare this with the actions of those lilies that Gullivera, a man-to-mountain, was wrapped up in threads and looked at him in all the uncomfortable places and said, “You will see how bad this mountain person smells from these places.” I would very much like our media to take a truly civil position. And they stopped what I said. I would very much like all the so-called honest news channels that are actually the 666th slippery news channels. They showed the means of their existence and that each TV conductor should state the content he receives from his master. I'm going to name just one gentleman who was on the ICTV channel and now he's back in his road-elcin Russia, about Dmitri Kiseleva. The official data published in the press received $30,000. So let's, let's say, can such television and media outlets tell their people anything except what their master tells them. Civil society, which we have so much to talk about, is primarily a bourgeois society. Let us recall the very origin of the word “bourgue”, “le bourge”. There is an airport in France called La Burje. bourgeois is a citizen of a good-natured capitalist society that originated in France after the Great bourgeois Revolution, French. Therefore, now that we are operating on this concept, we confuse it with the great concept that the national and Democrat Nekras spoke of: “You may not be, but you must be a citizen.” Different concepts, and the word “citizens” and “civil society” in the bourgeoisie, an even larger bourgeoisie and a society called socialism. I am one of the authors of this bill. I understand he's palliative. In the current circumstances, however, it simply cannot be others, regrettably. And I would very much like to see that the modest attempts outlined in this bill to give citizens of Ukraine access to the media are realized. I hope so, and I urge you all to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u76	Basil Nadrag. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u77	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, it is thought that when we consider this bill, we should look a little wider. What is more, we need to answer the question: What kind of society do we have? What is a person for this society, and what values does this society promote? And it can be said, I think that in this case all those present in this room will agree that our society is still a long way from civilization. We have remained a society where, unfortunately, money is very often a determining factor for social status. Including in the areas of access to the media, through the media, to convey their views or to protect their own dignity. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Therefore, I think that today, when we discuss this bill, we must still be guided by the fact that, unfortunately, the tradition of our society today is not civilized. And no matter what they say or criticism, we are really far away from civil society. And it turns out that the person who owns the media has not only the views and attitudes of readers or TV tellers, but also the person or group of persons who own and influence journalists. And I think that, speaking of this, we should also understand that in protecting journalists' rights to freedom of expression, we are therefore going with you towards civilized society. Back to the ground of the bill, I think there was a right in this case for a committee of profile, who said that the bill could be adopted at first reading. Because in raising the issue of responsibility and the ability of the media to hold a position, someone's thoughts, someone's approaches, we must remember that in a normal civilized society, an opponent or a critic must have the same opportunity to defend himself and his position. Therefore, it is assumed that the mass of issues that exist in the bill and this is true, including the fact that a number of terms do not correspond to more basic laws. Nevertheless, we need to be more careful about this law. Carefully, because he suggested that the materials should be made available in full, at the same time, in the same font or in the same intensities as the original assessment of certain acts or events was given. To say that the media, which has published attacks on a political party, a public organization or a person, a citizen, a media editor, is obliged to give the opportunity to someone who has been criticized, and we know that this is often also spilling away dirt, I am not afraid of that word, to give an opportunity to speak with an alternative. There is therefore a proposal to take this into account carefully, carefully and appropriately. As a faction of this subject we have always discussed today, we think we will resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Whether many of you have seen the draft of this law, I will remind you of who does not remember whether or not I have seen it. Three articles in this law, the fourth, are true, that the law also enters into the End of the Law from the time it is made public. Three articles. First. It's a notion of media that's far from explaining what it is. And the second article is the principles of equal access for citizens to the media. Third. This is the responsibility of violating principles. I mean, it's about discussing one single article. Yes, that is why we are offered the whole law. What is involved in this law? The law states that the supply of opposition materials should be at the same time in the same range, in the same place, in the same tone, in the same genre, in the same font, that the materials on which the alternative point of view is expressed. I mean, who knows what a printed media outlet is, he understands that two materials are actually supposed to be delivered and one has to oppose the other. Is it serious? In my opinion, this is not even serious for discussion. I don't think it's serious to make journalists do this, what's it for? Journalists have other laws, laws on printed media outlets, which state that a journalist is obliged to provide objective and reliable information rather than contradictory information. So, dear friends, I'm just quoting what's written in principle in the second. If the media gives a point of view of authority or of a party that supports this view, the editor is obliged to give airtime, that is, television, radio, or newspaper space, to publicize the opposition or the party that is opposed to power. The Party of Fatherland Defenders has always been for the Ukrainian people, but how it will now deal with other parties who have been in opposition to criminal power. How will this be determined? So, I think, dear friends, this bill is not about being called a bill. Unfortunately, it's a wish, it's a certain principle that you might find in the laws that I've been talking about. I am for rejecting this law, because if we adopt such a law, it will be just a shame for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u80	Please, which one of the motives insists? Only those who signed up. Dry, please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u81	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine to Czernovetsk Leonid Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u82	Please, it's a Chernowitz microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u83	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. I want to say that the very idea of passing this law is very correct. Because today the main thing that did not take power and the Communists did well when the bill was tabled. What did power not do for the people? She shut down all the media for him. Any opposition today can't get anywhere, because there's no first channel, like Peter Nikolayevich used to go in and take places at Kuchma's, but it's unlikely they'll let it go. That's why there's a problem, I think on first reading, this bill must be adopted. Of course, there are problems of conflict with other laws, but this is a separate subject and can be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u84	Please, Suškevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u85	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, National Deputy Suškević. I respect the efforts of the authors to have equal access to the parties, to the media, but as the head of the subcommittee on disability issues, I cannot help but ask the authors of the bill for their understanding. For people with disabilities such as Ukrainians, the concept of “access” and “accessibility” are special, even extremely painful, and I will be honest with you. The availability of social infrastructure is its barrier, its inaccessibility, and these problems of disability have to be really faced every day. Unfortunately, there is also a problem of accessibility for the disabled of the media – for example, the problem of the serious translation of television programs, including informational ones. It is also a problem of printing a Braille information period to ensure access to the perception of these material by sight, completely blind. Today, this bill does not address the issue of citizens’ access to information. And it really provides the issue and solves the problems of access to parties and political forces before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u86	Yes, who else is Matthew's, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u87	Matvienkov 55 district, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Of course, the Law on Equality of Access to the Media is long overdue and necessary. Unfortunately, our journalists are now in such a position to serve a party force and party movements. We are used to reading, and we love journalists who objectively, openly, boldly express their own views and have their own views. The law on elections in a proportional system has divided our society into parties, so let's say, apartments. Unfortunately, this bill continues to be shared by the press, now by party apartments. We do not solve the most basic problem: political advertising, equality of citizens'access to political advertising, we do not see it here. Agitation. What is agitation? What kind should it be carried out? How we do not see equality of access to citizens' agitation in this bill. That is, this bill, in fact, largely, although the topic is correct, but we are exacerbating the situation that is and rights was Suškević, who said that, to date, we are simply putting this law under parties rather than citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u88	We need to take you to the party. Yes, please, Proskurat Tamara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u89	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The only meaningful article is that the media are obliged to give airtime or newspaper space to the opposition party, a opposing point of view. But nonsecret media outlets are severely limited in the right to maintain their point of view. The media are transformed into a discussion club, and the editor into a speaker of such a club. And the newspaper that publishes political materials has to double its volume to supply the opposite materials at the same time. And since it is difficult to determine the point of view of authority, our courts will be overwhelmed by lawsuits on the subject. And that's why we think that before this bill there are many, so far, issues and unknown cases of the existence of a similar law in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u90	Please, we have two other acts of inadmissibility. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please, and prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Vasil Onopenko is the head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc. Dear colleagues, there's something I like about this bill, too -- it's an idea. But, I'm sorry, there's no such word as "impersonation." Let me do a legal analysis of this Law. Well, first of all, the Law actually consists of four articles, the fourth article of one sentence: “When the Law becomes forceful.” The third article. “On material liability for breach of legislation”. There's a Civil Code, there's a Civil Procedure Code, there's mechanisms, there's courts that bring and regulate these issues. Why the third article? Next. I won't be the first one, it's term. The second article remains. On the other hand, I want to stop more carefully. In particular, the bill stipulates that journalists are obliged to look and explain from any problem at least two opposite points of view. However, article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for the Media and Social Protection of Journalists states that the search for information and its sources is a right rather than a duty of journalist and is carried out to his own discretion. If changes were made to this law, I could still understand the obligation, not the right. But there is no change. Moreover, the draft law itself violates article 34 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is guaranteed the right to freedom of thought and the words “to express his views and beliefs freely”. Everyone has the right to freely store, use and disseminate information orally, in writing or in other ways, the Constitution stresses. So I think this is a contradiction to the Constitution. In order not to take up too much time, my dear colleagues, I think that if I don't support this bill anymore, it needs to be corrected and made into a necessary draft law, which, indeed, is necessary. We need both society and the state, and a short bill like that saying: “Small, short, but very revolutionary.” So so that he really has the appearance of a future law, and that he effectively regulates social relations, let's let him not really lose this noble idea, send for work and draft a quality bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u92	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u93	The National Movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! The draft Act on ensuring equal access of citizens to the media in Ukraine proposes to establish conceptually new rules for the provision of information in the media. In particular, it is proposed to ensure that citizens have access to the media at an allegedly equal level, by establishing that if the media gives a point of view of authority or of a party that supports this view, the editorial is obliged to give airtime or newspaper space to publicize the opposition’s or the party’s opposition to power. In addition, it is suggested that opposition materials be supplied at the same time, in the same volume, at the same place, with the same tone, with the same genre, font, or materials that are expressed, an alternative point of view. We think it's a bill. What will that mean? This is going to mean that when we, the National Democrats, or, for example, historians, say that Communist ideology is a criminal ideology, that the theory of class struggle is a criminal theory. That Communist practices are criminal. Then the Communists will demagogically deny it. Although historical facts cannot be refuted. For when it comes to famine, the Communists say there is no famine. When it comes to repression, Communists say that there were no repressions, no crimes of the Communist regime. In our opinion, this bill of law conflicts with article 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And if this bill is adopted, we believe that the constitutional rights of journalists will be severely violated. After all, they will be influenced by a foreign viewpoint. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u94	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Final, please, Mishur. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to thank everyone who has made constructive proposals for this law. But I'd like, well, first of all, to go to Mr. Žizko, who, unfortunately, didn't read this law because he said that there was no way that electronic media were marked. That's not true. This is the first time. This is exactly the style of our Ukraine as a whole. Secondly, there is no measure of responsibility. The world of responsibility is marked in a special article. It's like moral and material damage. For those who scream more about democracy, it's based on Western patterns, and I want to say, including for Mr Onopenk, that there is such a direct norm in the legislation of the United States -- that if, for example, we gave the word “A” to the party, we are obliged to give the word “B”. And finally, I'd like to say to Mr. Kostinyuk that what he's here from the rostrum is, I'm saying, there's a point of view in the world. Yeah, I can see that. And there's a point of view, let's say, fascism, neo-fascism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u96	Yes, dear fellows, the lines have ended because we will be endless. I think we're going to vote. I'm putting to the vote a proposal from Onopenka's national MP for inadmissibility. [[Registration number 7392-P1]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:09]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Well, I don't think that's necessary. The next bill is. Well, first of all, you're my Cruise. Kostinuk, I'm asking you to let me down on Krutz, who seems to have given you the word. And then I'll see if you've made the right use of that word. You bring me Kruc, the author of the decree. You waved instead. They stood in place of Krutz, making the floor. I'll say it again. You've made a floor and it's not beautiful! I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on ensuring equal access of citizens to the media in Ukraine. [[Registration number 7392]] Please vote. [[11:38:11]] For-79 Not accepted. The factions, please. Communists - 56, “Regions of Ukraine” - 1, National Party - 10, People. , “Our Ukraine”, “The Block of Timoshenko, Socialists, the Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democrats – 0, the People's Block of Lithuania – 0, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order”, “Only Ukraine”, the National Movement of Ukraine – 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, non-fractional – 8. I'll explain again. I didn't offend you, I'm just explaining that the author of the next project is the inadmissibility of the national deputy Krutz. You wrote a note saying that Krutz gave you his word. Please show me the people's deputy Krutz. He didn't say a word to you! Everyone, please sit down, I'm giving you another remark! You Learn to Be Educated and Truthful! And they've been lying all their lives, I'm afraid! And now we've seen it again. There was a suggestion to re-read. Please vote. [[11:39:33]] For-76 The decision is not taken. I think it's very easy to solve this problem. Let's give every national MP a media tool -- and everything will be fine, and there won't be any laws. And then there will be total freedom. The question is: draft laws on social housing. We have three bill-by-numbers here: 3386, 3386-1, 3386-2. National MP Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich reports. Prepare Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u97	Deputy Koval, Ukrainian People's Movement faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The United Nations General Assembly declared 1997 - 2006 the first decades of the United Nations to overcome poverty and urged all countries to join forces to do so, as well as to take their own economic measures. Regrettably, Ukraine’s high level of poverty today, which does not satisfy even some of the life - sustaining needs of the population, violates basic human rights to food, shelter, and treatment. In recent years, the socio-economic situation in Ukraine has radically changed the lives of the population. The redevelopment of economic relations in the context of a relative decline in production, inflation, change in ownership has led to a sharp decline in the standard of living of the population, a decrease in its payability, a spread of society at income level, and an increase in unemployment. A large proportion of the population of Ukraine found themselves homeless, including many older children. Thus, the existence of such a bill is long - awaited and timely. Long awaited from the point of view that he was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2003. Now the fourth year he was lying there, he finally got his turn, and we're looking at him. And this should be a special law, as in other democratic countries, where the solution to the problem of the creation and use of the social housing fund is regulated by individual laws. What's important is that the project is missing the practical-stand mechanism for its implementation. It defines both individual arrangements for the creation of a social housing fund in Ukraine, its distribution, and its sources of expenditure. The project is designed to optimize the existing legal framework in the area of social protection of homeless, low-security population groups by creating a basic law that focuses on the basic rules governing relations in the area of review. The aim of the project is to introduce a system of legal, economic and social measures in Ukraine with the aim of overcoming such a sad phenomenon as homelessness, the threat of homelessness due to insolvency, violence, etc. The project provides for the establishment of a social housing fund mechanism, its legal regime, the procedure for granting or obtaining rights to housing. The housing fund, taken from the social housing of any form of property, cannot change its purpose under any circumstances, including when moving to the new owner. The draft specifies how the rights to social housing should be established, calls the competent authorities responsible. The implementation of the project does not require additional budgetary costs, as it provides for funding within the limits established for this purpose by Ukraine's effective legislation in various aspects of its financial support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u99	by redistributing and specifying and targeting the budget allocated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. Please, three minutes. You son of a bitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u101	Fucking Communist faction. This law is, there is, and you have proposed a bill, but how do you appreciate today's state of affairs in the housing of our citizens? Those lines that have been left since the Soviet era are practically growing, but people cannot get housing. First of all, housing can't be given to people who have the right to do so, which are on the list of off-the-book receipts. I am approached by people who suffer from tuberculosis, and local authorities are unable to provide housing for them today. Does the law provide for the immediate separation of housing for such categories of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u102	Dear Mr. Yeshchenko! This bill does not provide for a general solution to the problem of housing for the population of Ukraine, but it foresees housing for the most vulnerable types of population: people with disabilities, people of older age, people who are unable to afford housing from a material point of view. Thus, the bill provides for the creation of three social housing funds: the State Social Housing Fund, the Social Housing Community Fund, and the private social housing fund, which will allow not to the extent possible, but to a greater extent, for those who are unable to solve the problem themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u103	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u104	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Dear Viachelav Stanislavovich! Please tell me you represent new authority. You are introducing a bill that aims to protect the most disadvantaged. I have a question for you. How would you evaluate the behavior of today's orange authority, which, in view of what it is in the budget, has not allocated a penny to the closure of the “largest dwelling” to the destruction of the barracks? I mean, my question: "Is it not possible that we will accept your bill, which provides for 5 percent, if I am not mistaken, of total expenditure, and we will not receive a penny again when there are further "orange liars" in power."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u105	Mr. Jaroslav, if you ask me how I appreciate the actions of the present authority, President of Ukraine, I appreciate the positive actions of the present authority. But notice, Mr. Jaroslave, the bill was passed in your time of power in 2003, and there was a problem. And we wanted to build on the decisions that the Cabinet of Ministers made in 2001, that Kuchma had adopted a poverty strategy programme, and we wanted to draft a bill, and we introduced it in 2003. But now in 2006, his time had passed, and he had to be accepted immediately. We had one problem, we were preparing the Housing Code, let's not look at anything, we'll take it all into account. Although I am absolutely convinced that these norms should be regulated by a special law. And you're offered a special law. Funding is proposed, and I have already emphasized that this law does not require additional funding; it only requires the redistribution of the financial flows that are in the state and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u106	Thank you, Viacheslav Stanislavovich. Have a seat, please. Mikhail Dobkin. Bill number 3386-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u107	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on State Social Housing and Credit. This project is designed to implement the basic principles of the overall concept of Ukraine's integration into European society. The housing problem is one of the most acute socio-economic problems in Ukraine, particularly for citizens who need to improve housing conditions, according to legislation. Bulgakov also wrote, “We have good people, just ruined their apartment issue.” The pace of housing construction in Ukraine and the amount of money spent on building housing at all levels do not provide a solution to the housing problem and, above all, to citizens who need social protection. In insufficient amounts, funding is provided to approved government housing programs for individual categories of citizens. That is, the army officials and their families, the soldiers released to the reserve, or the resignation, of individual rural builders programmed by their own home, young people, citizens. The Chernobyl disaster, and so on. This explains the uncertainty of the legislative norm for the annual funding and lending of such programs. The aim of this bill is to create conditions to address the problem of housing for Ukrainian citizens who need social protection, or State support through construction, or the acquisition of social housing. The implementation of the bill will allow, together with the creation of conditions to address the social problem, a positive economic effect, namely, an increase in housing financing, will enable enterprises in the construction and adjacent sectors to increase construction volumes, which in turn will increase tax revenues to the budgets of all levels and the stability of Ukraine's economy as a whole. The scientific expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the adoption of this bill as a basis. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Any questions? Please sign up. The Orzhachovsky Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u109	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Hersonian. Dear reporter, I understand what social housing is. But I don't know why you're here for the old people, and you're offering loans to be useful, so I'd like you to explain it. And in general, it turns out that in social housing we're not offering more today than we are offering for bread. Today, it is necessary to change the whole state concept, and the authorities today must guarantee that these people will be granted housing. And if we keep it quiet, that's what we're looking for, how do we give credit? Right now, they're running people's gas, and pensioners can't take anything. Well, none of the private banks will go for any credit unless there's a government guarantee for these people that it's a human right to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u110	Thank you for asking. But I'd like to separate the gas from the social housing. I want to tell you. I'll tell you about the loans. I want to tell you that, to date, the problems that exist in the State as you would like to see them could be guaranteed entirely under another political and economic order in our country. But we live today, not 15 or 16 years ago. That's why we have to see what happens tomorrow. I'm not saying it was bad before. Therefore, when we talk about credits, we are well aware that if a State, after the adoption of the bill, is determined that certain categories of our citizens still need to be addressed with a housing issue. And if we start building in the country not only elite housing, but also housing where we can buy a retirement home, soldiers and the same elderly people you told me about. Why would they not take credit for the construction of housing as their normal interest rate? And I think that if special conditions were created, if a special state programme was to be made for construction, for lending, for the attractiveness of banks, so that they would know where they were giving money, and they had guarantees from the State of return of that money. Then it will not be a problem for young people to receive money or to retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u111	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u112	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. Mikhail Markovich, in general, your bill can be considered central in a number of these three bills, because it speaks of sources of funding. I am concerned about the question that voters are asking today, especially young ones. You know how difficult it has become, but some sloping problem is getting a young family loan on youth housing loans, regardless of the various bills. Please tell me how your bill foresees a mechanism of commitment, a mechanism that would require authority not to interfere, not to bribe, but to help young families, because they are today, I think, in the most desperate situation. They do not have enough housing, nor do they have any hope for tomorrow. Please. Mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u113	Thank you so much for asking. How to force power not to take bribes is rhetorical, because I even saw a statement by the leader of the nation in America when he urged American businessmen to come to Ukraine and not pay bribes. I think we should start with local officials, not American businessmen. In this bill, the Youth Credit Fund for Construction is transferred, let's say, to the department that will be dealing with social housing. I think that first of all, first of all, someone who has to get a loan to buy an apartment or build a house for himself should be young people, young families under 35 years old, because these people live and live in our country. And the better their living conditions will be, the more they will be able to give the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u114	Thank you, sit down, please. Desert Tenko Valeriy Pavlovich, Bill 3386-2 and head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u115	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, the problem of providing housing for our citizens was and remains one of the most acute social problems in Ukraine. All of this is primarily true of the few, the most vulnerable groups of the population. They are unemployed, retired, graduates of children’s homes, disabled persons, many children’s families, and single mothers, single citizens, and others who need social protection from the State. A clear legal basis for resolving this housing problem was proposed in a draft Ukrainian Housing Code. Regrettably, the final edition of the Code with the proposal of the President of Ukraine, which made a commitment to the Housing Code and without any convincing explanation was not supported in the session room. And just now, my colleagues have been asked what the system will be like, I can tell you that today the national deputies of Ukraine have been actively involved in the drafting of the Housing Code. A new draft of the Housing Code has been introduced to the Supreme Council, which fully guarantees the housing system. But as evidenced by the practice, the consideration and adoption of the new Housing Code takes at least a few years, and then Ukraine will be rejected for another three years in solving one of the hottest socio-economic problems of providing housing for our citizens. I thank him for asking the question. Including those who are socially vulnerable to modern, safe, and quality housing. The purpose of correcting this extremely negative situation was introduced by the People's Deputy Kostinjuk and I introduced the draft Act on the Housing Fund for Social Assignment. By the end of October of this year, the committee had considered the bill, as well as two other bills on social housing, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Koval, Riaruk, and it could be said that all their proposals, the Koval People's Deputy, had been included in the Ukrainian Housing Code. And introduced by the deputy, too, Dobkin. The committee adopted a unanimous decision on the appropriateness of the adoption of the Social Purpose Housing Fund Act, registration number 3386-2, on the basis of further consideration of the main provisions of the other two bills. So the Housing Fund Bill sets out the legal, organizational and social principles of public policy to ensure the constitutional right of socially vulnerable Ukrainians to receive housing. One of the key tasks of the bill is the introduction into the State of the Social Housing Institute, which is not available today, which will be available free of charge to citizens of Ukraine who are accounted for and need social protection from the State. Using a social welfare fund, citizens will be made available to them for their salaries. Financial security, the creation and maintenance of a social housing fund is carried out at the expense of public and local budgets, taking into account funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u116	Let's get this over with, he's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u117	Thank you. On behalf of the committee, more. Within the national, regional and local social housing programs. It is time to collect and receive housing from the Social Development Fund, using Ukrainian citizens whose housing is the only place of residence. The average total income of the previous six months per person is less than the subsistence minimum, the size and the average cost of renting housing in a given residential area, which enjoys the right to improve housing conditions. The bill provides for the right to receive extra social housing for the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the Chernobylites, the orphans of other categories, including young families. They have the right to social housing. A special feature of social housing is that it is not subject to privatization, armouring, sales, redemption and mortgages. And the size of the rent for residential services sets up a local self-governance body for every employee of social housing. I agree with our committee's proposal to adopt our bill and to take into account the proposal of Koval, Rimaruk and Dobkin, and to submit a single bill for the second reading. Thank you for your attention. Please support the proposal of the Committee and the National Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Sign up for questions. As long as the recording goes on, your honors, let's continue until this issue is completed, then we'll announce a 30-minute recess accordingly. Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u119	The Communist faction. We've seen several times a bill on the Ukrainian Housing Code, we know that the veto was imposed by the President of Ukraine, we've made amendments. But please tell us how the law that you are proposing with the Ukrainian Housing Code is bound today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u120	I understood your questions, and I was very sorry when the Communist faction did not support the Housing Codex. I hope you vote for my bill now. Even though I know it's a fifti-fifti. I can say that this bill will be fully incorporated into the new Housing Code so that it will meet all the standards and define the entire system of housing for our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u121	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u122	Thank you. Valérie Pavlovich, I have a question like this. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of “Ukraine”. Of course, this bill and a whole series of bills, and you, as chairman of the committee, represent them, have a profound social significance because it fills the real meaning of the strategy of combating poverty. But as for the mechanism itself, I also asked Michael Markovich Dobkin, and I ask you. It would be very good if these bills worked. So I have a specific question. Here's one reason why you get a person's social housing, as well as a lack of pay. What do you mean? Because we have the basic Law on State Social Standards and Guarantees, it defines the limit -- it's the poverty line, or it's the poverty line, or it's below the minimum wage. That is, what is meant by the sign that the category will determine the underpayment capacity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u123	So there are two differences that I have to tell you. Thank you for asking. First of all, my bill and Bogdan Kostinuk provide for funds that will be budgeted for each of the following years, and depending on the number of categories of all the regions, to be allocated to local budgets, and they will be building social housing. This is the support and building industry that we have today. And providing our citizens with housing. And this is, at least, the second question you asked. It's at least the one who needs to get our citizens housing. And including the elimination of that queue that's not actually going to be eliminated. And for everyone in the room, including the Communist faction, I particularly want to say that today, at the expense of the local budget, there's only one and a half percent of the housing budget, i.e. there's no movement in the line. Sadly, we did not do exactly the right thing under the Housing Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Valery Pavlovich! I completely disagree with you that we had to adopt the Housing Code and that it was completely in vain that it was now being blocked and that these issues should actually be included there. And how will developments develop if we take this bill as a basis, and then, after all, we can adopt the Housing Code. Would you agree that the Head of the Committee would then install these articles in the Housing Code, since that would be appropriate and, in terms of legal engineering, acceptable, and would be of greater benefit to the people? How, then, will this Law work if it acts separately? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u126	I thank you for your questions, and I want to say that the Housing Code is the answer to what I was asked from the site, was the President of Ukraine. And if he did. Because the Supreme Council voted for the first time and adopted by 274 votes in favour of the Housing Codex. That's the first question. The other one. I think the Housing Code will be more difficult to accept than this Law that we report today, and it can be adopted by the new year. And the Housing Code, as I said, for a few years. And I think that this Law will then be fully incorporated into the Housing Code, to which you personally made your proposals, and they're all taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u127	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, dear colleagues, 19 national deputies were enrolled. Let's take 15 minutes, and then I understand that it's going to be 40 and 50, and 5 minutes with a motive. Because now they've found a possibility, so to speak. So 15 minutes for discussion and 5 minutes for motivation. Please, Simonenko, the Communist faction. Get ready, Zizka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. First of all, I want to remind Valérie Pavlovich that the most perfect Housing Code was in Soviet times and that man had the opportunity and was given housing regardless of how much he had in his pocket today. First, the faction cannot support such bills that violate the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states: “Every citizen has the right to housing”. It's different. The history of mankind has not yet been so clear that in 14 years the terrible property of the citizens of Ukraine will take place. 85 percent of the population of Ukraine is outside the poverty line. Third. Social guarantees such as free education, free medical care, and free housing are eliminated. At an average wage of a little over 800 dollars, the main population was virtually eliminated from the right to free housing, as these bills provide that the right to so-called social housing is not exceeded by a minimum of one person's average monthly total income per year. So in the medium-term subsistence minimum of 423 bracelets, the right to social housing will be limited to bumblebees in Ukraine. Today, more than 2 million families, or 6 million people, are living in Ukraine. Nearly a third of Ukraine is living in unsuitable rooms, dormitories, and 17 million people live in conditions close to the minimum sanitary standards, i.e. the total area does not exceed 6.5 square meters. These laws should not be adopted, but they should be replaced in general by a system that does not allow for the building of housing for an honest, decent person. Because he can't make money, and when they sell the Creebrisstal, we'll soon have a raise, let's say, for the same housing that's built in the absence of the same housing system. Once again, the Communist faction won't vote for it. But I want to look at another social issue. As you know, the national deputies, and, at the offer of the communists, I myself have been introduced a bill on the introduction of a moratorium on the introduction into Ukraine of meat and food sub-products of the domestic bird in connection with the bird flu, as you know. So, what's going on? The president vetoes and writes: “This will have a negative impact on Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization. In Russian, it's simple! So this is where the deep-frozen meat will be brought, it will be processed, the Ukrainian people will be killed, and it will veto. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! As it is said in the People: 'We must pick up the appropriate broom and drive out the likes of the officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u129	Sergey Zizko. Prepare Volodymyr Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u130	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The adoption of this law will contribute to the realization of the constitutional right to housing for those population groups that need social support and social protection. Each of the three proposed projects has its own pluses and minuses, and so they're essentially complemented by each other. Bill No. 3386-2, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Desertac and Kostinuk, concentrates more on regulatory norms. Instead, Project No. 3386 of Ukraine’s national deputies Kowala and Rimaruka look more humanistic, humanistic, primarily aimed at satisfying the interests of the population. And this, in my view, may serve as a basis for his being accepted as a basis in the first reading. However, in my opinion, there are a few important points that have not been reflected in the bills under consideration. First of all, there is a need for differentiation in social housing conditions for people of working and working age with different income levels. The provision of social housing for the permanent use of persons of working age should be made by their compulsory employment and the regularity of the cost of living and utilities. For working youths and low - income families, the law should provide for the provision of social housing for a limited period of time. This will stimulate people’s desire to improve their own standard of living. The law should also provide for the possibility of deprivation of the right to social housing for those persons of working age who have successfully passed the adjustment period and whose income level allows them to rely on the purchase of housing for credit. The Social Housing Act should help to eliminate such negative phenomena as travail, ageing and bottling, those who have been put outside society under the pressures of life, and this law will give them a real chance to return to social life. These persons should be extended to care services and, in particular, to psychological adaptation services, employment, health and sanitation services. As for the unworkable age that needs to be given social housing, I think they should go online for the elderly and the disabled at the expense of the state. Under the same conditions, a person’s social housing should be recognized as ineffective. Besides, I want it under the previous law. I read it carefully on two pages. There's nothing very difficult about it. And I reject the claim of not being familiar with the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u131	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare Calinchuku
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The attitude of authority toward the decision of the housing program does not inspire confidence in its implementation. Although how well the president of Ukraine promised cheap housing for young people. But we are witnessing that it is not available to her. Prices on housing are just cosmic. So socially vulnerable people have a minimal chance of acquiring housing. The turn to receive is increasing with each year. Because both Afghans and disabled people do not receive housing without talking about orphans and children deprived of their parental rights. These young people just stay out on the street with no means of being. And while these young people are being served by the Social Housing Service, this service will not help them. Although the truth is broken up by states with decent wages. The problem of housing today is one of the most painful, but the pace of construction does not go in any way. For example. At this rate of housing construction, it takes 200 years for a change in the Kirovograd district to satisfy housing. And people of all ages are in line with the hope of getting housing. For example. I was contacted by a resident of Svetlana’s Twin City, who, as a young specialist, was in line for housing back in 1983. And he's got two kids, and he's got a turn. And they're in the thousands area. In fact, it's hidden unemployment. Constant non-payment of salary. Accounting for working goods instead of money that result in inability to pay for housing, utilities, and the resulting loss of housing. Loss of housing leads to poverty and homelessness. Today, some 120,000 homeless adults, who have been homeless for the above reasons. How much housing has been lost for the elderly because of the machinations of the “new Ukrainians”? So when the Social Housing program is implemented, it is necessary to draw a straight bridge between the construction organizations and to do without intermediaries. This will make it possible to spend the cost of living. Consider, too, the setting of fixed prices per square metre of social housing built on government orders, which will also reduce its cost. Of course, the existence of such a bill is a long - awaited and timely problem for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u133	Please, Vasil Kalinchuk. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u134	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Calinchuk, Clothing, the People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Let us try to answer the question: What are the differences between societies that have been developed and those that are underdeveloped today? Civilised Europe offers very specific criteria, one of them being the roofing of citizens. Just think: It is her, the old Europe, and she has no idea that there can be no housing at all! How could a civilized world imagine a situation in which adult citizens, when they reached the right age, could not marry, let us say, not because of health problems or for any other reason, but because of the absence of an apartment? Take, for example, our capital. The city of Kiev draws attention to the multitude of new buildings, but what are these new ones? And who's going to give an answer to what is actually part of the social housing quota in the construction plans? A persistent statistic says that there were nearly 145 thousand households in Kiev in the year 2004, of which 18,000 families have been waiting to receive apartments for more than 20 years. In other words, the hired corners have raised generations of young people in the capital, and the regions are no longer to be talked about. Nor can our neighbors in Europe imagine that a person can be taken and thrown into the streets. That is why the faction of the People’s Party of the People’s bloc of Lithuania, which has been a vector of its activities, has called on every citizen in the Ukrainian society to support all three bills by uniting them together on the basis of the draft law on housing funds for social purposes introduced by the People’s Deputies of Desertenk and Kostinyuk. At present, these bills need to be finalized because they do not cover the whole range of painful housing problems that should be the primary issues of public social policy and a well-designed housing investment system. At this level of housing market conditions that we have today, socially vulnerable groups do not have the slightest chance of acquiring housing on the market. Therefore, I ask once again, on behalf of the faction of the People's Party of the People's bloc of Lithuania, to support these bills by a positive vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u135	Yuri Carmaizn, please give me another representative of Restoration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, at a time when about one and a half million Ukrainian families are in line for new housing, and by one and a half percent of them get one year and a half percent, we will be giving up housing for about 70 years, except for everything that has virtually ceased to be available for free. Let's call things our names. If with us here, in three hundred meters from the Supreme Council, housing on Gruszewski, 9th, which completely destroyed the historic city of Kiev, destroyed the architecture of this ancient city, the housing there was implemented from $7,000 to $12,000 per square metre. And at the same time, there are a lot of people who have absolutely nowhere to live. And I am very grateful to both the national deputy Kowalya and Remaruka, who made their social housing project on April 13, 2003. There are very good thoughts here, and the people's deputy Dobkin, where he asks questions, places more emphasis on lending housing than on social housing. But when I look at all three of these bills, I come to the conclusion that the bill is the most up to date, obviously because it's the most modern, it's a bill on the housing fund of social assignment introduced by the People's Deputies, Desert Tenk and Kostinyuk. It's this bill that I think we should take as a basis. But I would ask you, by adopting the laws, to write by the authors and the national deputy Koval and Rimaruk as those who first asked the question in such a way that they were also the authors. There are many references to their laws. I'm not talking about them right now. I think that with the adoption of this bill, there will be more real features of the Constitution that guarantee every Ukrainian citizen the right to housing. And it is with you that we have, despite the fact that the Housing Code has not yet been adopted, to adopt the basic provisions of the Social Assignment Act of the Housing Fund so that the most vulnerable groups of the population will receive them, and also to use youth housing to enable them to fill the population all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u137	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! We're 15 minutes out, we've got five minutes left with motive. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Behind him is Sergey Shevchuk. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u138	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, in fact, the solution to the extremely acute housing problem lies in a slightly different plane than the bill of three for which it is absolutely necessary to vote. Or at the expense of social consumption funds, as was the case in Soviet times, and unfortunately there is no such thing now, either because of the high cost of the national labour force and the ability to borrow housing, multi-year and cheap. Only these paths can be real. As for the bill, I'd like to ask the committee, when it's working, to take into account the extremely acute problem that we have today, it's a problem of the former famous workers' dormitories. One example of the disaster that has befell people working at the Lenin cousin who are actually being thrown into the street by new owners today is that we need to approach this problem in a balanced and rigid manner at a national level. Those factions that today do not support these bills are driving the housing problem to a dead end. We have to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u139	They're in that corner anyway. Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the situation that is now in France, the French government has made a decision to deal with the problems they are facing, to consider a more fundamental issue of social housing. How important this question is even to such a State would seem to be a prosperous one. In Ukraine, the issue of social housing, as you recall, was first raised by the government of Julia Timoshenko and, unfortunately, failed. Today, we are introducing three laws that are extremely important. The BUT faction will definitely support it, so each of the three bills has very important, worthy ideas to be embodied in Ukrainian legislation. But on the question of "which one specifically supports the bill on which to base it" we have decided that it would be appropriate to take the Valery Desert Bill and the better ideas of others to join. We'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u141	Please, Vasil Onopenko. Eugene Filindash is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u142	I don't see Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u143	No, thank you. Thank you. Eugene Filindash will say, then John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u144	Ah, Eugene Filindash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Clearly, the problem of housing, housing shortages, is one of the hottest in Ukraine. According to official information alone, some 1.5 million citizens are in charge of their families. But I would also like to pay attention to the fact that this is best for young people. Because young people are only getting into life, and they don't have the ability to have an average young citizen at all right now. Those commercial loans that are currently being issued are not available. So the faction of socialists will support adoption on the basis of these bills. But I want to point out that in just one of them, more or less, there is a category of young people in Dobkin's Bill, such as receiving social housing, the right to social housing. Therefore, the request to the authors to include it in all the bills. They may then be united: about young people as a category that cannot receive housing on their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u145	John the Rabbit. Eugene Gorenik is next, I can't see either. Valérie Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u146	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party Yuri Kosenko. The situation needs to be rectified immediately, for there is much injustice. In advance, the money for the construction, so - called, prestigious housing, and the money holder has two, five apartments, and hundreds of thousands, millions of people today are not provided with housing. It has come to the point that even deputies may not be provided with housing because they are given some compensation and so forth. The Ukrainian People’s Party therefore advocates the adoption of these bills and the resolution of the problem. But what is social housing? Because if social housing is provided for a minimum wage, or free of charge, then it will be done by officials who bring bribes, and they will receive housing. If you have to do social housing, you have to rule out migrants for free. If Ukraine finds many people, we will not have our own people, and we will give them to other migrants. You don't have to turn Ukraine into a country of migrants. There are Ukrainians who have to be provided with housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u147	Yes, Valery Konovaluk. None. Proscuratova, please, Tamara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u148	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. The importance of this problem is evidenced by the fact that three bills have been tabled at the same time. Indeed, housing was and remains one of the hottest in Ukrainian society, both in times of socialism and now. In particular, the first bill includes shelters that are not housing. Then the second bill provides for the granting of loans. But these people are no longer among the poorest of the population. Thus, the third bill is the most perfect. However, this bill also requires improvements in the use of the term “social housing”, “social housing”. There is also a missing mechanism for the social welfare program to interact with other government housing programs. There is also no justification. But we think that this bill can be adopted on a general basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u149	Yes, Konovaluk showed up. All right, don't raise your hands. And Kostinuk will be more. The motive has been exhausted for five minutes. You can't go on forever. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u150	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I really stress that the issue that is being addressed today should not only be taken by the people's deputies from the perspective of solving this problem, but we should address the issue of social housing construction and understanding that, at the minimum, when Parliament approves, we should anticipate the cost of housing. I'm sure that for further consideration of the State budget, it is necessary to settle this issue with appropriate expenditure. And in my opinion, the fact that this law can really take effect today in terms of parliamentary support is a solution to a serious enough problem for many Ukrainians. I understand that the dynamics that are taking place with the exacerbation of this problem will still require Parliament's approval of the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u151	Yes, please, for 30 seconds, please ask for a Cherniak, then Kostinuk as one of the drafters of the bill. One minute and we'll be clear. Please, it's a black guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u152	Honourable National Deputies, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. The bill has to be supported, there's no doubt about it, I think none of those who sit in this room as representatives of the people. But there are two issues, two problems that need to be solved in the process of preparing the bill for second reading. First, it's a clearly defined notion of social housing. Social housing is a free home and you have to do everything you can to avoid paying bribes for it. I mean, we should.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u153	That's right. Yes, please, Bogdan Kostinuk as one of the drafters of the bill, one minute. He wants to make it up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u154	National movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Respectable national MPs, social housing are in all the developed countries of Europe. Clearly, it is not the home of improved planning, but it is in every European city. We need to support at least one of these bills in the first reading. Today we live by the Housing Code, adopted more than 20 years ago in the Ukrainian Soviet Union, which has not decided in its own time and will not solve the issue of social housing today. We're in line, people are in line for over 25 years, and that's what everybody knows. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement will also support Bill and 3386 by Coval, and 3386-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's define these three bills. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on social housing, Bill 3386, author of the national MP Koval Viacheslav. [[12:30:47.]] For 186 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on social housing. Registration number 3386-1 by Dobkin. [[12:31:19]] For 128 The decision is not taken. It is based on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of the draft law, registration number 3386-2 by Desert Tenko and Kostinjuk. [[12:31:50]] For 284 The bill was adopted in the first reading. According to the faction, please: Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 51, National Party - 26, "Our Ukraine" - 35, Block Timoshenko - 20, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, Social Democrats - 14, People's Block Lithuania - 18, "Trust of the People" - 16, "Reforms and Orders" - 12, "One Ukraine" -7, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 5, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, non-fractional - 21. Dear colleagues! Now we're going to announce a break of 30 minutes, but there were two factions, the BUT factions and the One Ukraine -- that is, they're using these 30 minutes, and we're going to start by giving the factions a chance to make their proposals for three minutes. And another thing, I was approached by the national deputy Krutz, and he confirmed that he passed on the word to Kostenyuk Bogdan, and I'm offering an apology to my colleagues, but you weren't in the hall at the time. Thank you for coming. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Up to 13 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, we continue to take a break, including two factions taking a break. Please, who? Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u157	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. The ideal of Ukraine’s state solidarity is the unity of our nation. The only Ukrainian family, the hundreds of millions of Ukrainians, is our future. Ukrainians and Russians, Belarusians, Jews, and storms should feel free and equal in our family. But today, when we go to the first anniversary of the democratic revolution of Ukraine, we cannot help but see and notice that the political situation in our country, in a special pre-election period, is extremely tense. And some political forces are trying to make moral capital, that's dirty moral capital. We must go to elections with honesty and frankness. I think that the time has come and the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the "One Ukraine" faction has introduced a bill to remove the immunity of MPs of all levels in order to say once again that the MP has only one privilege: to serve the people and the state. Today, more than ever, it is necessary to solve the problem of salary and pension. There cannot be a separate system of pensions for government officials, including national deputies, that there can be no separate system of wages for judges, military officials, and all civil servants. Worldwide, there is a system of wages and policies based on hourly wages. In the United States, where the President receives about $500,000 a year, this system is based on a $5 hour pay. We demand that the government develop such a system and draft a bill on a new tariff system for pay. Our faction, which is in solidarity with other factions, has introduced bills on the distribution of funds from the implementation of the Crimson Combination, on the raising of up to 5 percent of the barriers to passage, on the modification of the final lists by election to the local councils, taking into account the final results, on the change in the term of the embargo on electoral legislation. All these bills need a solution, we call on everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u158	Yes, thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, let us turn to issues that were not previously supported. But in connection with the letter from the President of Ukraine and in connection with our agreement to return to the consideration, including the Commission’s Investigative Law, we will put these proposals to the vote if they are accepted. Then we will be conducting the process of consideration. Is there no objection? We have to go all the way if we're going to talk one way and the other. So please, my fellow Members, please sit down, please note, the motion will now be put to the vote for each individual bill to return to consideration of previously unsupported issues. There is a motion for a return to the draft Act on the lifting of the export ban, the export of alloyed black metals, the scrap metal and semi-manufactured metals. Registration No. 7565. Please vote. [[13:10:01]] For-174 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, National Party – 21, “Ukraine” – 31, Block Timoshenko – 25, SPI – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 19, SDPU – 0, People's Block Lithuania – 18, “Trust of the People” – 11, “Reforms and Order” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 9, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 10, non-fractional – 2. The bill was rejected. May I have your attention, Your Honor, sit down, vote and vote. It is up to the vote on the return before the unsupported draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on Sanitary Epidemic Food Standards]] [[re-read]] Registration No. 7595-d. Please vote. [[13:11:19]] For 277 Decision taken. Since we discussed this bill, there is good reason to put it to the vote on the basis of the first reading. Registration No. 7595-d. Please vote. [[13:11:48]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there are no warnings, can accept it, there will be no warnings, the committee proposes to accept it as a law as a whole. No warning? I am voting for adoption as a whole as a bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on sanitary and epidemic food standards, registration number 7595-d. Please vote. The committee proposes acceptance as a matter of law as a whole. [[13:12:28]] For 330. The law is passed. Thank you. They did a good job. It's a Soviet bill. Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the return to the draft Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 6450]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:13:14]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since we are considering it, there is a proposal to put the draft law to the vote as a basis for the first reading. Is there no objection? Registration number 6450. Please vote. [[13:13:51]] For 349 As a basis, it's been accepted. There's a denial. That's just the sound of it, dear fellows. We need to work on it, it's about the inadmissibility of the law. Let's not rush. Dear colleagues, let us now support this good initiative that has been implemented. It's about putting the bill in order and considering it. It's being announced. Wait a minute! There are alternative, distinguished colleagues here! There are alternatives here. Let's have a look. Alternatives that are worked by MPs that are normal. Look at what this is all about. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the customs procedure for goods]] It is up to the vote on the inclusion of two numbers 8323, 8223-1, please vote. There's an alternative. Please vote. [[13:15:01]] For 223 Dear colleagues! One minute, wait, calm down. I'll take care of it. Where's the other project? Dear colleagues, one minute, please. It was allowed here, but listen to what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u159	I beg of you, fellows of honor! Listen to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u160	The point is, dear fellows, pay attention! Wait. Will you give me your word? I want to say again, will you give me a chance to say? The point is, my dear colleagues, I've been tipped off, it's two pieces of the bill. One is introduced by the government. The second is an alternative introduced by the factions of the region. I'm going to put each one separately, because two couldn't be put in. Here's the thing! I'm supposed to put up some, uh, respectable colleagues, well, why are you doing that? Dear colleagues, I'm on my way. Well, listen. Please turn it off. Dear colleagues, one minute. I was told that I had placed two numbers, said 8223 and 8323-1. I'm being told that we should put each other away. Because I got it wrong. That's why I'm going to put it to a vote, well, honourable colleagues! It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the customs procedure for goods]] Registration number 8223, government. Please vote. [[13:17:21]] For 224 Not accepted. I'll put it to a vote. Well, pay attention, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u161	I don't rape, I vote. Well, listen! Bill Alternative 8223-1, author of Richter's Raisa Vasilivna. Well, it's an alternative. [[13:18:02]] For 206 Dear colleagues, for – 206. Not accepted. Well, that's not acceptable, I said. The factions, please. Please don't shout, please. Communists – 0, “Regions of Ukraine” – 10, National Party – 30, “Our Ukraine” – 40, Block Timoshenko – 5, SPU – 24, Ukrainian People's Party – 24, SDPU – 0, National Block – 18. “Trust of the people” – 12, “Reforms and Orders” – 14, “The only Ukraine” – 1, The People's Movement of Ukraine – 14, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, non-fractional – 7. The decision is not taken. May I have your attention, please? There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act 8316 amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Export of Customs to Garbage and Black Metals. Please vote. [[13:19:12]] For 228 Copy that. May I have your attention, please? Decision taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction, the Ukraine Zero, the People's Party 37, our Ukraine 41, the Timoshenko Block 33, the SPU 0, the Ukrainian People's Party 24, the SDPU 0, the People's Block 17, the People's Trust 15, the Reforms and Order 13, the Ukraine 13, the Ukrainian People's Movement 14, the industrialists and entrepreneurs 12, the Post-factional – 9. The rapporteur is Minister of Economy Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u162	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Let me inform you about the appropriateness of adopting the Amendments to Article 1 of the Act on Export Customs for Waste and Black Metals. Today, the point is that there is an expert export of 30 euros per tonne of black metals to Ukraine. What the government is proposing today is a gradual decline in the export duty on black metal scrap metal from 2006 to five euros, which in no way affects the economic performance of the metallurgical combinations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. So let's just calm down, then let's continue our consideration of the issue. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u164	Because now there will be a fight of nature, this representative of the Minister will be thrown out of there now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u165	Well, please, don't. Let's do it this way. What am I doing, fellow believers?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u166	Let's call it a break, gather the Conciliation Commission. Do as you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u167	No, dear fellows, let's vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u168	Remember what we said: the Kabmin should come and report to us on how this whole procedure is done on the SOT.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u169	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council and the Honourable National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u170	Okay, hold on. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I suggest we all calm down now, let's get to the bottom of this. Let's ask questions -- including, let's see what questions we've got involved, then we'll figure out how to proceed. Well, if they are. Now, wait a minute, let the Supreme Council express its position. I beg of you, fellows of honor! When we asked questions about the commission of inquiry, there was opportunity, we voted, we made decisions, but the bill was rejected! But we agreed on a consensus board that we would put to the vote. We've been set up. Now let's ask and figure out what questions are going to be included in the agenda, then during the break we're going to hold consultations on how we're going to consider what argument is going to be needed. And now we're going to look at and go on with the other bills. Is it good?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u171	And then we'll go get the veto. And then we'll go get the veto. No warning? One moment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u172	We've put it in the agenda, put it off. Then we have two alternative projects and the project is government. It refers to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Export of Customs to Livestock and Leather Raw Materials. 8317 is a government bill, and 8317-1 is a project submitted by Ukrainian national deputies. This project takes into account the observations made by the scientific and legal authorities. But I'm going to put these documents in order for them to be registered. The first is government bill 8317. Please vote. [[13:24:12]] For 226 This decision was included. Dear colleagues! For inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to Some. Please change. The factions. The Communists are 0, the Ukrainian regions are 0, the People's Party is 33, our Ukraine is 41, the Timoshenko Block is 31, the SPI is 0, the Ukrainian People's Party is 25, the SDPU is 0, the People's Block is 18, the People's Trust is 15, the Reforms and Orders are 15, the One Ukraine is 14, the People's Movement is 14, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 12, the non-fractional is 8. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with WTO rules, registration number 8322, is now put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:25:37]] For 171 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 2, National Party – 37, “Ukraine” – 39, Block Timoshenko – 18, SPU-0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 25, SDPU(o) – 0, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 14, “Reforms and Order” – 14, “One Ukraine” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 4, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues! As for those bills that have received the necessary number of votes to be included in the agenda, we'll hold additional consultations, we'll make arrangements to work on them, we'll continue to deal with the government. Now we're going to go over the draft laws with a reduced procedure. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Matters of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Means of Transport is being announced for consideration, registration number 8079. [[about registration]] The report will be made by the national deputy of Ukraine, Zlatash. Anatoly Seminoga will be the subject of a co-report. Dear colleagues! I don't see the subject for discussion anymore, it's not the Soviet laws anymore. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I understand the tense situation in which this bill is being considered, but I want to tell you about the laws to join the WTO, this has nothing to do with it. But this. Although it has little to do with how this law was enacted. I would like to remind you that the story of the adoption of the law amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Means of Transport is that everyone remembers the atmosphere in which it was adopted. Just like today. And this law was one of those, and unfortunately, we got the wrong result. Hence, there is a need to change some of the rules of law, but this does not apply to changing its ideology. The main purpose of the bill is to introduce regulations. In response to the current legislation of Ukraine, to expand the list of goods covered by it, and to take more fully into account the interests of operators in the implementation of the law. I could say that these changes are more technical. First of all, there was a contradiction between the name of the law and its standards because the name applied to imports, and the text contained references to the production of cars. We brought this into line by changing the name and writing a preamble to the bill. The bill laid down a standard in article 4 concerning the introduction of standards. The UN, which was in contravention of the Ukrainian Standardization Act of 17 May 2001, which states that international and regional standards, i.e. standards adopted by the international and regional standardisation body in Ukraine as national, are adopted by the central executive body in the field of standardisation. That is, the word “national” is completely left in this law. You are now proposing a solution to the problem of implementing the bill's rules regarding the first registration for trucks. Currently, Ukrainian truck manufacturers are still technically unable to move on to these standards. We need to re-supply the production, re-certificate it. Today, however, there is no technical basis in Ukraine that could carry out a test certification for trucks. So we've offered these vehicles a two-year delay, which will allow them to gradually, without stopping production, run our plants to these requirements. Another question was about cars and buses that were imported into the customs territory on January 1, 2006. This issue has been resolved by means of the term “certificate of conformity”, thereby allowing both domestic manufacturers and importers to sell all remaining vehicles that do not meet Euro-2 standards by 1 July 2007, otherwise the situation that will remain in the warehouses will be different. I want to say that this is exactly what the State Customs Service was talking about. There is a corresponding commission on the part of the head of the Supreme Council. And what I want to say is that there was a technical error in the bill, and we lost the rule in article 4 of the bill: b, c, d. And if we bring it in, the bill will meet all the requirements. In view of the above, I ask you to give, my dear colleague, support the proposed bill for the changes that I have announced, for this is not just the help of the natives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u174	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u175	the committee's decision. Who will announce the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u176	Anatoly Seminoga's decision will be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u177	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u178	Yes. Anatoly Ivanovich, would you please take the position of the Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u179	Dear Head, my fellow Members, introduced to your consideration a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport by the National Deputies of Saints and Seminogue was considered by the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 20 September 2005. [[Registration number 8079]] The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act of 6 July 2005 “On certain matters of importation into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport”, with the aim of ensuring that the latter is clearly consistent with the current legislation of Ukraine, that the list of goods covered by it is extended, and that the interests of economic and legal entities are taken into account more fully in the implementation of the law. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill of October 5, 2005, can be based on the comments and suggestions made. In connection with the above, the Committee on Finance and Banking asks that the bill be supported and adopted on the basis of the suggestions made by the rapporteur. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u180	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Let's do two "for", two "against" then. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready for Biryuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear people's deputies, we are, of course, constantly urged by the President to separate business from power, power from business. This law is a concrete example of a combination of business and politics. It's specific. And with power like that. This law is totally outspoken. He just doesn't lobby one of these laws. This law does not lobby the interests of Ukraine, the Ukrainians, who are to breathe from those gases that are emitted by those cars that have long been obsolete, that are being dumped on garbage in all of Europe. That's what this law does. And it's about buses, it's about big cars, it's about radically redrafting the law, and I'm surprised what the Committee on Finance and Banking does when it writes that it should be accepted. Is it possible to do so if this law is purely totally lobbyist? Why is it that lobbyist laws are not captured at the stage of their study? Look at the comparative table, the left and right, see what is done here under this law, the first registration, the norm of this article is not distributed on light cars and buses, the certificates of conformity issued by 31 December 2005 are included in this project. It says here to complete the article with sentences of the following content: Article 3, certificates of conformity for light cars and buses, code of commercial position according to the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity 8702, 8703, issued by 31.12.2005 until 1/07.2006. Dear friends, it is obvious that this is a law that is lobbying. Yes, it needs a law that we passed with you on July 6th of this year, “Some import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of transport equipment”, requires the investment of financial and material resources by owners. Place, invest, not save on the health of the nation, invest, respectable. Do you understand? And you're saying today that you can't adjust and you're totally reshaping the law. If there is a firm, maybe it will be "Ais," or maybe it will be another firm, an unfavourable law, which is, let them look for a different direction of activity, but we have to do the law, not take the time. And now, all the time, we're putting this law under us. I will be absolutely against and not voting in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u182	Yes, Leo Biruk, please, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. Is it? None. Vladimir Yeshchenko, a faction of Communists, prepare for the Cross.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u183	Dear comrades! Fucking Communist faction. Under this Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine of Transport Means, the factions of Communists will not vote on their registration. And first of all, because in violation of our Rules, the Constitution of Ukraine is primarily enforced by laws that are lobbyed by individual deputies, the government, the President of Ukraine, and that are not for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. These are primarily laws that have been reviewed repeatedly in this room, which refer to the entrance to the WTO. At a protest that took place on 7 November in the city of Cherkas, people said no, such an introduction by Ukraine to the WTO, when their constitutional rights were violated, when they could not express their thoughts and they handed them over to the Communist MPs, so that we here in the hall would sound their demands. But on the other hand, look at the violation of our legislation and the violation of our Rules again, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin and the People's Party, together with the People's Party, are asking about the law, about skins, about metallurgy and other issues that are not being addressed today, because they are not dealt with in committees and, above all, in our Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, we have not considered these issues. And agrarian, my colleagues confirm. And we say again, this slogan that hangs here, "No, the Sotovian Cabal!", our faction expresses and we will stand firm for the interests of the Ukrainian people in this room and we will not allow the adoption of laws that go against the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws. No, Ukraine's entry into SOT under Cabal conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u184	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u185	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues! In this case, it is thought that it is necessary to first determine what we are saying is the subject of this law. Thus, two components are the subject of this law. One component is the import into Ukraine of imported trucks and saddle trucks. And the second ingredient is the domestic producers, in this case, we can talk about Craze, because as far as I'm concerned, we don't have any more domestic producers. On the other hand, as KRAZ experts have provided information, it is now ready to launch a Euro-2 technology with effect from 1 January. Therefore, based on that logic, we need to take a closer look at the situation of the next order. We seek to support the domestic manufacturer, or we will be able to bring in other, manufactured, saddled and trucked vehicles in other countries, which will provide an opportunity for those who will be in a good sense or in a bad way. In this case, it doesn't matter, but I'm talking about Craze. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing, it is unlikely that we will be able to bring the situation today before we can postpone for two years on one condition if CRAZ is ready to issue our Euro-2-compliant vehicles starting on 1 January of the following year. If this is the case, we should support the domestic producer accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u186	Dear colleagues. One minute. All right, Ivan Alexanderovich, don't waste your nerve cells. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u187	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we must look at this bill in two positions. As for the first view, it's about not introducing the environmental standard of the euro-2 for two more years. And finally, let's figure out, on the other hand, we saw some people here, and we said, "You don't have to go to WTO, because we're not ready." But if we accept this bill, we reject our technology for a few more years. I mean, either we make demands on our industries, our privates, our respectable friends, let's do these requirements, prepare products that are competitive, or we'll just encourage our industry not to remodel and we'll never reach the heights that are needed in the competitive world today. I think it's time to say that everything, guys, enough to make concessions, there are requirements and let's follow these requirements. And so we're going to raise environmental standards on the one hand, improve the environmental situation, and on the other hand we're going to launch mechanisms for modernizing our economy. What's this about? It's about import. And they're telling us what this is about, and our cars, our cars, our interiors, so let's do these two processes, if it's imports, then there's no way that our cars, which are produced in the internal market, can be imported into Ukraine. And if this is the case with our national manufacturer, it's different mechanisms for regulating this process. So I think, after all, we have to say to ourselves that we aim to modernize our economy in a way that is competitive. To do this, we have to make the demands, the environmental requirements, strong enough. To do this, we need to strengthen our technological requirements. So I'm not voting for this bill and for the reason that we're rejecting our industry today and our environmental situation back. I'll remind you how we discussed the import of cars and of the European Union when it came to allowing cars to be imported for a little while. Then we rejected the whole issue, and on the other hand we started to clean up, so some were put into an awkward situation by those who imported light cars and those who imported trucks, please let us put them in such a position to import them. So the position of the Ukrainian People's Party is to finally set and set ourselves a goal. Making our economy competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we have a number of people here who have signed up, but they won't be able to speak. One minute, please, I'm watching. Is Eugene the Mountain Man there? None. Orestes Klimpus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, this is really as it has been said in previous speeches, this is lobbying failed and inappropriate Ukraine's production. The introduction of Euro-2 environmental standards since 2008 has contributed to the destruction of Ukraine’s ecology and has harmed our manufacturer. I confirm that CRAZ can and will release vehicles that match Euro-2 by 2006 because they are assembled by the Yamsov vehicles of Russian production. Other cars that are counted on by those who lobby this law are Chinese and left behind by unscrupulous Russian engines. I'm asking you in no way to uphold this law. He's not qualified, he's not professional, he's dealing with exclusively private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u190	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, of course, of course, of course, of course, of course. On the one hand, it is as if we need to import cars, and on the other hand, of course, we need to make sure that they are of high quality, of technology, and of course that they are environmentally clean. So, I don't think you can evaluate so clearly the negative and definitely positive bill. There is a problem and we need to finalize this bill and I think we need to re-read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u192	Anatoly Seminoga, Saints, 30 seconds and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, the incompetence of some speakers is surprising. This bill deals with two sectors of the national economy in order to provide normal tractors for the transport of goods to Europe. The other one. This is for the production of our domestic trucks. We have one that is not capable of meeting the Euro-2 requirements in a short time. So he needs, as a minimum, a period to remake his production. This bill protects domestic producers. Please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u194	Dmitry Saints. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! I can agree with a number of comments. But what I'm saying is that it's a pretty serious bill, which also deals with the issues of the return of cars, like our citizens, when they return to a permanent place of residence, they bring themselves. Let's support the first reading and create a working group and work properly on the second reading. Because this bill protects not only manufacturers but also consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u196	Yes. Dear colleagues, Bill 8079 has been completed. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Matters of Import into Customs Territory of Ukraine of Means of Transport. As far as registration is concerned. Registration number is 8079. Please identify yourself. [[13:48:12]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's do it again. A motion for re-reading draft Law 8079 is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:48:42]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues! Now, let me give you an announcement. At 3 p.m. I request the heads of the MPs, the representative of the President of Ukraine, from the government to meet in the Head’s office to discuss our further actions related to the consideration of the Soviet laws. We continue our work for 15 minutes. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[rent]] Registration number 7453. The reporter is Alexander Alexander Moroz. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew and Ludmila Fedorovna Kirichenko will be the narrator. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to introduce certain rules to the Economic Code and the Law on the Rental of State and Municipal Property, which specify the order of assessment of State and municipal property, and the dissemination of competitive rules in the construction of lease contracts. Today, the rent of state and municipal property does not have the effect that both the renter and society can have. And it allows us today to shadow the transfer of leases. This has to be done. Thus, this law is designed to improve these mechanisms, lease mechanisms, and rental institutions. It's small, it's only four pages of text, but it's repeated in both the Code of Lords and the Rent Relations Act. Because that's what we're talking about. The essence of this law. This should allow you to sign or deposit leases on competitive grounds, first of all, necessarily. And the rent is determined on market terms. So to create a competitive environment in these legal relationships. It must be said that this law, in line with the changes that are now being made to the laws, the Code of the Master and the Law on Renting Stately and Communal Property, and in view of the fact that it does not provide for the conclusion of leases with a ransom, is also included in this bill. And there will be no ambiguous interpretation of the rules. On this point, positive conclusions were drawn by the Main Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investment, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The holding fund also supports the bill. Since it is small, it regulates the rules between two important bills and should be used by now because the law passed there in 1995. I would like to consider it in the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u198	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, administration of national agriculture, property, and investment. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer. The need for legislation was due to the inadequacy of the rules of two or more laws designed to regulate one group of legal relations. When different legislations treat the same relationship differently, there is a legal conflict, processes stop, and the competent authorities need clarification. Sometimes judicial practice helps. The bill before us is designed to bring Ukraine's laws on the rental of public utilities and the Ukrainian Code of Commerce into great conformity. The problem is that the Code was adopted much later than the Rent Act, but as a code, it is a stronger legal instrument. For example, many laws since the adoption of the new Civil Code have also failed to comply with and comply with the new legal provisions of the Civil Code. The same is true of the Code of Commerce, not only in the case of leases. Several attempts have already been made to rewrite the economic legislation on rent, but new and new problems have arisen in practice. The Committee proposes that the draft law be adopted on first reading as a basis and that it be further developed for second reading, taking into account current economic legal practice. However, it is important to note the political engagement of the proposed draft decision and the commitment of the authors of the Socialist Moroz to the principles of shock therapy that the Government of Kuchma has already preached in its time, where the Vice-Prime Minister was Pinzenik, and this is repeated today. At least the provision that the funds received for negotiable assets are accounted for to enterprises in the bank's deposit account that serves it, is controlled by the authority authorized to manage the assets of the enterprise and is used to resume the business after its lease means that the negotiable assets will be frozen. And we've been through this before. You may remember when, through currency regulation, large export business leaders remember that through currency regulation, the denial of Pinzenik's working capital requirements and the interest rates of 365 per cent of annual industrial enterprises were deprived of working capital, they were forced to take credit, and eventually they were bankrupt. At the same time, it should be noted that the draft law provides for discrimination between the labour force and budgetary organizations in the provision of, forcible leases under the decision of the State Property Fund if the lessee refuses to rent. There are very different approaches to budgetary organizations and the labour community. That is, on second reading, we should make a very serious finalization of this law, taking into account all the comments made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u200	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna, please. None. What, though, do you think we should vote for the basis? Well, please, then, Yuri Carmazin, your right to speak. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Get ready for Biryuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u201	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a unique situation where the state can never assume the functions of the owner of enterprises that produce brandy, spirit-cheese, ethyl alcohol, rectified grape, spirit-cheese, ethyl alcohol rectified, fruit-and-burning products. Why can't the state take over these functions? This question was before the past government, this is a question to today's government, this is also a question to the State Property Fund. Then the situation is that privatizations don't work, it's absolutely right, and these factories are now leased. I have doubts about the effectiveness of each property complex, of course, I have to work and watch separately, but in this case, what is proposed is the changes to one article and what Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz said, the draft law that he reported, and the draft law 8405, 8404-1 is the bill of Yukhnovsky, Demjochina, Kaletnika and Slavuta, which are actually amended to article one, to the fourth, to article five of the Law on State and Municipal Property. Yes, in the first reading, this law can be adopted. And then you'll have to take into account the observations made by the science-expert authorities that specify that the rental of the specified property complexes will take place through the continuation of the leases entered into by a certain date. And they're proposing to write it down by January 1st, 2007. I propose that the government of Ukraine be clearly committed to directing this process so that it can take over these factories so that they do not sit back and perform a serious function today. With regard to the changes to the fifth part of the second article, which is suggested that whole property complexes, the main activity of which is the production of goods, works, services of general interest and that are not privatized in accordance with part two of article five, are privatized to the proposed changes, except for the complete complexes that release the excise products transferred to the lease in San Sanic Moroza 8404, I propose that it be accepted in the first reading, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u202	Thank you. Oleg Biruk. Is it? None. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u203	Fucking Communist faction. This law, first of all, aims to reconcile the provisions of the Code and the laws relating to the rental of state and municipal property, which will allow for the removal of confusion between the rules of these acts and contribute to their faithful and unambiguous treatment in practice. Yes, in this case our faction will support this bill in the first reading, but it needs to be thoroughly worked out in view of the fact that the individual provisions of this law violate the rights of the labour community. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if we are talking about state and municipal property today, the lease of land today does not, unfortunately, meet the requirements of citizens living in the cities or communities of our Ukraine. An example is the events in Cherkaščina, where the individual structures, first of all, the commercial structures representing Kiev are primarily the “Regions” organization and society, which, according to their conditions, have been placed in front of the inhabitants of individual microregions. When rented for 49 years in the local government of the land used to build refuelers without agreement with the community of a particular microregion. I've already spoken here, and this is what I've been talking about, and I've been making parliamentary inquiries, and in response to my parliamentary requests and demands for order in the Chercasses, this regional organization has filed a court-martial application to bring me to justice and pay them the moral damages of 50,000 dollars for insulting them against the protest that the citizens conducted. This is an example of how structures today use legislation. Regrettably, neither the prosecutor’s office nor the local authorities nor the public administration are involved in the responsibility of those who violate labour laws. Or an example on Lenin Street, building 45, when the apartments were purchased, and today they are doing a shop with a violation of existing legislation and building buildings in the yard, and. On Lenin Street, violating legislation. I think that in this regard we must do everything we can to ensure that legislation is consistent with the actions of those who do not use them in accordance with the Constitution. So I think we're going to adopt this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u204	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u205	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill deals with a very important topic, the topic of corruption, because everything that we talk about public property, the public or utilities that rents it, sooner or later, is all about how honest those managers who are assigned to deal with it are. Therefore, when it is said that public or public property will be leased on a competitive basis, it is probably not bad. It's probably not bad when we're talking about the price of this lease being marketable, not made up by someone. But back to where I started. Competition. Corruption, unfortunately, is a problem that needs to be written separately, including in such a law, despite how the author here said it was only four pages. Why? Because, I will give an example, according to one of the provisions of the law, the lessors of the property are a public or utility enterprise, if the real estate is not more than 200 square metres. What is “not more than 200 square meters”? I'm a deputy elected from Luhansk. Often a state-owned enterprise with such areas. What's that? They're all kinds of kiosks, shops, social networking, all the small and medium-sized businesses to start developing it. They need areas, and it's these areas up to 200 square meters, often 10, 15 and 20 square meters, are the most greedy pieces. Because there's not a lot of people interested in standing-up factories, stopping production. In the housing fund, built-in spaces of 50, 60, 100 square metres are things for which someone who has the right to allocate or give someone their property may also be ensolved. Therefore, when we talk about whether we want to give public or utility enterprises the right to rent themselves, I stress that we should rent up to 200 square metres of rent ourselves, we should probably start with the following: firstly, to the second reading, if a decision is taken in the first to develop a mechanism, because officials, irrespective of the State or the utility, which is not actually the owner, let alone a legal one, will make an effort to do so, I beg forgiveness, to raise capital. And based on that logic, when we speak of the need to streamline the management of public or utility property, including the rental of it, we must first write out a decision-making mechanism to rent a property. And second, the mechanism to monitor how the price is established, how the fees are made and how the officials who make the decisions are in the public or community interest rather than their own? Based on that logic, we must look at this Law as a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u206	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u207	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention only to the changes proposed in the Ukrainian Code of Masters. If the Code of Masters does not allow leases to be made on entire property complexes, structural units, and units, the bill will be permitted. I mean, what are we talking about? The language goes essentially to suggest hidden privatization. Hidden privatization, for example, if I had property and I was a state-owned commercial enterprise, I would say, I don't need it, I have it for sale, I have a regular copy that I can let go in the development of this company. No, they say, let's take it and rent it, rent it. And we're still letting rent with a ransom. So if now, once again under the Master Code, the terms of the ransom are regulated today by the same Code of the Master, that is, by legislation, let's give the terms of the ransom out of law and through the lease agreement with the manager of the enterprise we'll make a deal that I'm renting you an enterprise for so many years and then I'm buying and buying. This is how I read the changes to the Ukrainian Codex of Masters. If not, please convince me. But I'm deeply convinced that's what it's written here. So let's do this differently. On the contrary, to increase responsibility today for the use of property. If this property is in excess, if this property is not being used today, let us sell to those who need it. Sell at auction, loudly, make a penny and use it to develop the same business. Let's move on. Again, this is about what property is allowed to be leased. Again. The arbitrary figure is 200 square meters. 200 square meters is 20 times 10 meters. This is how you can imagine what it is and what kind of business it is for. I mean, I don't see any relevance in this. On the one hand, it breaks the property complexes, and on the other hand, you can really get rid of the surplus. So from my point of view, in the position of the Ukrainian People's Party, this is not an improvement in the situation. We need to create legislation that will force business leaders to use assets effectively today instead of handing them over, putting large sums into our pockets. Therefore, dear friends, this is not a step toward destroying corruption. On the contrary, from my point of view, it is a step to distribute money and thus to sow corruption. Therefore, the Ukrainian People’s Party will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u208	Corruption doesn't sow, I guess. Something else is going on with her. Nigger, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u209	Honourable People's Deputies, a bill aimed at harmonising the terms of the Master Code and the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. And that's very good. This is the normal, necessary, constructive, routine work of the Supreme Council. If we find among the bills, among the laws that we have adopted, we must remove them. I want to point out three main points that are positive. First of all, it is excluded that a state-owned commercial enterprise has no right to rent entire property complexes of structural units and units. Second, the tenant decides to transfer the property to a lease on competitive grounds. Third, the Ukrainian State Property Fund, its regional offices, take into account the proposals made by the local government, the local authorities. Now with regard to comments, I think there might also be 3 comments. In fact, everything needs to be done to ensure that there is no hidden privatization through rent, that is the first. Second, do everything you can to make it impossible to break up the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u210	Let me give you a third name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u211	Yeah. Second, don't break up the only farm complex. And third, why exactly 200 meters is defined as the size of the property per enterprise. Why not 100, why not 500? I think the bill would be appropriate to accept maybe after some work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u212	Yes, please, the representative of the State Property Fund, Alexander Bondar, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u213	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading by the State Foundation, because this bill aligns the rules of the Master Code with the Rent Act. The only contradiction is, according to the MPs, that there is a ban on renting excise goods, but this is decided by the following bill, which will be considered further in the Malinovsky project. And if you take it into account in the second reading, all the questions will go away. So I'd like to support in the first reading, and in the second, I'd like to take into account the Malinovsky bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-15-m0.u214	We will. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on rent, registration number 7453. Please vote. [[14:12:14]] For-84 Show the factions, and you'll see that there's a coma. By factions, please: Communists - 38, "Ukraine" - 0, National Party - 13, "Our Ukraine" - 1, Block Timoshenko - 0, Socialists - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 4, Social Democrats - 0, People's Block Lithuania - 0. [[United]] "Trust of the People" – 0, "One Ukraine" - 0, "Reforms and Orders" - 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 4, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 1. Let's vote for re-reading. Vote. Let's do it again. Let's do it again. Let's do it again. Let them rework, vote Ivan Alexanderovich, vote! That's a good idea, let's support it. [[14:13:16]] For 113 I'm once again, dear colleagues, believe my experience, I have someone to vote for. The factions that are present do not vote. So if we didn't vote the result would be the same, I mean, believe it, unfortunately, yes. Therefore, dear fellows! It's being announced now for a break of 16 hours. I remind you again, at 3 p.m., the factions and the MPs, and the Lithuanian Block plus the president and the government to meet in the head office. A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
