ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:58]] The 392 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Let us welcome our colleague, and wish him good health and success in his work. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the withdrawal of the faction “One Ukraine” of the national deputies of Ukraine Gurova Vadim Mikolaajovich, Toločka Petra Petrovich, Yukhnov Oleg Ivanovich and their membership in the faction of the People's Party. Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on September 20. We considered five issues of the day’s order. Three rulings were adopted, one bill and one draft decree were rejected. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 2.5.2 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 45 minutes for statements by authorized members of the MPs with statements, reports and information. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come to the fore, more specifically, to the Secretariat in an appropriate manner. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Vassil SALIGIN to the President of Ukraine on the illegal actions of co-workers of the Regional Department of State Service to combat the economic crimes of the Ministry of Interior in the Kharkiv region of Ostrov and Zaichev, and on the demand of bribes in the leadership of a closed-key stock company. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:21]] For-74. Request not supported. Groups of national deputies to the President of Ukraine for more than a two-way sabotage of the letter to the Council of Europe on the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. [[SIMONENKO, HAVATRIVA, SHUFRIC]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:06:01]] For a hundred and Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:24]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communist faction 55, Ukraine 42, Ukraine 0, People's Party 26, Timoshenko 20, SPU 19, Ukrainian People's Party 0, “Go, Ukraine!” – 8, Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is united – 20, Ukraine's only and Reforms and Order – 0, Ukraine's Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 2, Ukraine's National Movement – 0, NDP, Ukraine's Labour – 6, non-fractional – 3. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the non-payment of arrears from wages to workers in the coal industry of Ukraine. [[TURMANS, NEARS, DONES, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:07:23]] For 241 Request supported. I would like to vote on the motion to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:07:43]] For 248 Decision taken. Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine for the October 14th announcement of the festival of the Ukrainian Army. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:10]] Z-85 Request not supported. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the termination of the strike by the Illíchian Seaport labour force on the condition that the container terminal is returned to the state property of Ukraine. Victor DIVORCE under the prime minister’s responsibility to allocate funds for the completion of the construction of the central district hospital complex in the village of Romanov Žitomir district. Sergey SLABENKA to the prime minister's executive responsibility for clarifying the regulations of Cabinet Order No. 664 of 29 July 2005. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Head of the State Property Fund, for the payment of debts on wages to workers of the Kostinov Chavonol factory in the Donetsk region, for the illegal actions of officials in the part of bringing the factory to bankruptcy. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Acting Prime Minister for the financing of the Scientific Research Centre of Quantum Medicine, Widguk. Vassila HARA to the acting prime minister for the partial financing of housing and utility facilities of the Volnovakh region, on the basis of subsidies from the state budget of Ukraine. Alexander YENA to the prime minister’s executive responsibility for the development of the military liaison system of the Ministry of Defence and the field parts of the government’s BAF. Stepan Cloud and Alexia MALINOVSKI to the acting prime minister for the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Katerina SAMOLIK to serve as Prime Minister in connection with the water supply of the villages of Wallinsk and Ostapenko in the district of Herson. VICTOR MIRONENCY to the acting prime minister for the creation of a single economic space, the Customs Union of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. Victor DIVORCE under the prime minister's responsibility to allocate funds for the equipment of an autonomous boiler for the spring school in the village of Wonderland. Eugene KYRILČUKA is under the prime minister's responsibility to complete the construction of high-level schools with extremely difficult conditions for the education and completion of a specialized school, a boarding school for hearing impaired children in Volodymyr-Wolinski. Alexander GOLUBA to the acting prime minister's duty regarding the impeccability of the closure of the “Visa” State-owned “Live Coal” mine. valentine SAVIC to the prime minister’s executive responsibility to finance the reconstruction of the maternity home in Olevsk, Žitomirsk, at the expense of a subsidy from the State Budget. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the acting prime minister's responsibility to finance the completion of the construction of the Swede Company. Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the abuse of the collective village “Friends” of the village of Kiselici in the region of Czernovetsec. Mikoli COMARA to the prime minister's executive responsibility for budgeting for 2006. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Acting Prime Minister for the award of a subsidy for the maintenance of the military town No.38 in Poltava. Vladimir YAWORlY, under the responsibilities of Prime Minister for the threat of national security in Ukraine caused by the increase in nuclear weapons by the Black Sea fleet of Russia in the territory of our country, in contravention of the treaties that provide for the Russian side to have no nuclear weapons in the form of a fleet located in our country. Vitalia OLUIKA to the acting prime minister for the restoration of the State Historical Architectural Reserve in the city of Isasław Hmelnicka. Jury KROWROČKA to the Acting Prime Minister for his efforts to close the Novostralstan Hospital of the Jewish Region of Lviv. Olega ZARUBINSKI AND KATERINA VASCHUK, under the acting prime minister’s responsibility for the groundless liquidation of the Odessa Institute of the Land Army. Igora JEREMEYEVA to the acting prime minister's duty regarding the inadequacy of the VAT restructuring of the Odeski Příportní plant and the need to protect the property rights of the state. People of Kirichenko are under the prime minister's responsibility to finance the gasification of the Preval region of Luhansk. Gennady RUDENKA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the renewal of the legitimate rights of former owners of the Open Shareholders Association Sanatorium Psiel and on the involvement of officials is biased in examining the direct facts of infringement of citizens' property rights. Vitalia OLUIKA to the acting prime minister’s duty to pay off a hopeless tax debt to agricultural producers. Michael BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the provision of a computer complex for the Tereblecan School of Education in the region of Czernovetsec. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Acting Prime Minister for the award of a subsidy for the preparation of a prominent residence in Poltava for work in the autumn-winter period. Anatholicity OF ORJAHOV to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Herson District Council on the unlawful actions of the executive and self-governing branches of power that led to the sale and destruction of objects of sociocultural purpose of the New Kyiv rural community of the Kalanchan region. Mr. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA, Acting Prime Minister, Prosecutor-General, Head of the Board of Directors for the establishment of the Management Commission for the Study of the Activities of the RSDR-RCP-KP(b)-KPSS-KPU and HRC-GPU-NCB-MGB in Ukraine from 1917 to 1991. Anatolysa Rachánské to the Acting Prime Minister, Minister of Defence for the Repayment of Debt by the Ministry of Labour, carried out by a team of the Office of the United Nations Office for Human Rights in Eupatoria. Maria MARKUS to the Acting Prime Minister for the violation of the rights of peasants in the despoiling of the Carpathian farm in the region of Zacarpathia. Mr. Ivan TOMIĆ under the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister for the allocation of budgetary resources for the completion of the construction of the educational and laboratory corps of the Delhi State Agrarian Engineering Academy. Eugene HURNIKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to grant the status of the mountain settlement of the village of Rožnetov Ivano-Frankiv region. Igor DYDEN to the acting prime minister regarding the situation surrounding the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant of Mikolayeva. Alexander TKALENKA to the prime minister's executive responsibility to include in the 2006 State Budget project the costs of compensation for losses in the State Mail Company from existing tariffs. Anatolysa Rachánské to the prime minister’s executive responsibility for financing from the state budget for gas pipelines and gas pipelines and drilling wells for drinking water in some villages in the Sack district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Victor PETROVA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney-General, for failure to fulfil the terms of the land lease agreements of the village of Kožanka in the district of Winnitsk. Mr Vladimir Lještenka is under the responsibility of the First Deputy Prime Minister to pay the employees of the social sphere of the city of Primice in the Chernigiv region. JOURNEY CARMAZIN to the Attorney General of the Ministry of Health, Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv City Council for the elimination of the threat of major environmental damage, the cessation of the illegal construction of a gas station on the Moscow Prospect of the city of Kharkiv. Mr. Vladimir Simonov to the Attorney General for the non-infringement of the criminal prosecution authorities in relation to persons who took part in the events that took place in June-August 2005 in the village of Rohmanov in the Shum district of Ternopil. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney-General on the rightfulness of State property alienation, a proper children's sanatorium “Iskra” of the Ministry of Health and Property Damage to the State. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General for the use of criminal materials in order to end the long - standing burden of prosecution of the Primorski district of Odessa on the decision - making process. Jury KOSTENKA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Culture and Tourism for the Protection of Archaeological Heritage Act in Kharkiv Region. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney-General for the illegal recognition of the bankruptcy of an open stock company, the Sudh factory of rubber products, and the burden on employees of the factory to pay their debts. Mr. Jaroslav Fedorczuk and Mr. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney-General on the illegal actions of law enforcement agencies in the detention of the head of the Petrików Reservoir of the Forest. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General on the violation by officials of Kienergo's shareholders of laws on licensing conditions for entrepreneurial activities for electricity supply in Kiev. Anatolia Seminogui to the Attorney-General on violations of corporate legislation and the criminal conspiracy of former Minister of Industrial Policy Valerius Mazur with the illegal management of the Open Shareholder Association “Dnipropolimermash” with the aim of illegally changing the owner of the shareholder association. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General for determining the legal basis for the return to Ukraine of more than two hundred and fifty million U.S. dollars stolen from Ukraine’s state budget by former Prime Minister Lazarenko at Timoshenko’s participation, as well as for the development of a procedure to prevent the irreversible confiscation of these funds for the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the U.S. Attorney’s Office to the Federal Court in Washington. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with the religious community of the village of Rokhmanov in the Ternopil district of the parishioners of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarch. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Attorney-General for the protection of the rights of shareholders and VAT workers, “Extra-urban Material and Technical Security Entrepreneurship” and TV “Orian Ship Yard” employees. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney-General on the enforcement of detention in the premises of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area of the deputy of the Kirovograd City Council, the deputy of the city's head and the damage to him and his family's moral and psychological integrity, and on the responsibility of the leaders and employees who violated the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Vassil Hari to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors, on illegal activities in the operational and search activities of the SBA personnel who caused the death of a citizen. Vitalia KORJA to the Attorney General for the actions of the investigator at Shevchenkov’s Paradise Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev, which contains signs of crime. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Board on the legality of the business activity of Interbudcomplex. Petra SIMONENKA and Vladimir LECHENKA to the Attorney-General on the allegations of abuse by the Chief of the Novgorod-Siberia Gas Administration of the gas supply and gasification of the Open Shareholders Association “Chernigugaz”. Vassili SALIGIN to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the regional department of the Department of Public Service to combat the economic crimes of the Ministry of Interior in the Kharkiv region and the demand for bribes in the direction of the “Gey” shareholders. Philip BUZDIGAN to the Attorney General for actions by officials and officials that impede the execution of a court decision. Jury KROWROČKA to the Attorney General for the verification of the grounds for total deforestation in the Zakarpatsk and Ivano-Frankov areas. Vassil DESCRIPTION to the Attorney-General, Head of the Board of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, on the investigation of the circumstances of Viktor Yashchenk's involvement in financial crimes in 1991-1999, in particular the theft of assets from the Bank of Ukraine, the abuse of office and corruption and other illegal activities in the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General regarding the manipulation of evidence in a criminal case based on the murder of George Gongadze, prejudice and total ignorance of the fact that the “tarstan” body does not belong to George Gongadze, which could lead to the collapse of the case as a whole. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General, who is acting as minister of internal affairs in order to bring to justice police officers who have beaten the elderly, women, and children in the village of Debechin in the Chargorod district of Winnick. JAROSLA SUCHI to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in Investigating the Conditions of Corruption of the Minister of Transport and the Liaison of Eugene Red. VICTOR BORSTEVSKI to the Attorney General, acting as Minister of Internal Affairs for the corruption of individual officials of the ministries of justice and internal affairs. Vassila POTUS to the Attorney General, the head of the Board of Internal Affairs, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in Investigating the Corruption of the Corruption of the President of Ukraine and his Environment in connection with the construction of a building complex in the city of Jaremche. Mr. Aleksandra STANA to the Attorney General, the head of the Board of Internal Affairs, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in Investigating the Conditions of Corruption of the Minister of Transport and the Liaison of Eugene Reddenek, members of the Ukrainian family and their links to the criminal world. MICILI KRAVZENKA to the Attorney General for the forced seizure of city authorities in Hartziska, with the participation of high officials. Leonida ISAYEVA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Board, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption in Investigating the Crimes of Officials of the Cabinet of Ministers. Ivan Vernidubov and Eugene LAPIN to the Attorney-General, the Head of the Board, the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Head of the State Tax Administration for the Investigation of Ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko's Operations concerning the creation of unjustified tax conditions for importing sugarcane and causing damage to the State in a particularly large way. Mr. Aleksandra Stoyan and Mr. Vasil SHOPPING to the Attorney - General, Head of the Board of the Department of Internal Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence, on the investigation of the circumstances of the coup d’état and the involvement of the Ukrainian citizen Timoshenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Board of Directors of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of the Crimes of the Head of the Victor Boyk State Reserve. [[VERNADOUBOV, LAPINE, ISAIAH]] SASA to the Attorney General's Office on the facts of failure to comply with the decisions of the Supreme District Council of the Kyiv Region. Larissa UZACZENKO to the Attorney General, who was responsible for investigating the beating of military officer Alexander Timoshenko, who served in the military section of 3032-B. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, acting as Defence Minister for the illegal construction of buildings on the street of Gethman John Mazepa in Lviv and the criminalization of managers of the Ukrckonvers enterprise and the Galichartbud Corporation for the overriding of power and the looting of civil servants' rights to housing. Vladimir Paka to the Attorney General for the verification of possible violations of the laws by the authorities of the Volin Oil Company. Ms. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney-General on the violation of the Constitution, which guarantees the right to education in the Mid-Bud region of Suma. Valery YEDOKIMOVA to the Attorney General regarding the activities of the Rector of the Suma National Agrarian University of Ladika, who violates the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney-General on the abuse of the office of officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Mikolai District in the case against the management of the National Shareholder Holding Company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant. Jury KARMAZIN to the Attorney General, Head of the Board, Acting Minister of Transport and Communications, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the Supreme Court for Abuses in Operations of a Closed Shareholder Association “Ukrainian Radio Systems”, Arbitrary Limitation of the activities of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, Intensification of Investigations of the Killing of a Member of the Romach Commission. Larissa VACHANKO to the Attorney General on the unlawful actions of law enforcement authorities in the case of the recognition of private property rights in part of the land. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General on the issue of official negligence and abuse of power by the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, who has caused significant damage to the interests of the State and his responsibility under articles 364, 367 of the Criminal Code. JAROSLA KENJORA to the Attorney General regarding the criminal investigation of Ruslan Antonick, a resident of the Drobic district of Lviv. Maria MARKUS to the Attorney General, who is responsible for the duties of the Minister of Culture and Tourism to verify the work of the administration of the culture of the Kharkiv district government regarding the preservation of the archaeological heritage. Jurya SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General for ignoring the law-enforcement authorities of the State Service, Borispol Airport, Donbassaero Air Force, in relations with the closed-circuit airline Airworld. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney-General on the unlawful actions of the Prosecutor's Office of the District of Transnistria of Cherkasa and on the application of the Director of the Ryzon Production and Commercial Company. Ms. Olexiyuka and Mr. Hmari to the Attorney-General on the verification of electronic and printed media messages regarding the film on the performance of the Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka by the K1 channel, financed by Firtaš and the related criminal authority of Mogilevich. Stepan Gavrish to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Head of the Holding Foundation, Head of the Head of Crimea on the financial and credit policy of Naftogaz Ukraine. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerius Samowowski to the minister of justice on the restriction of the constitutional rights of citizens to rest, health care by the government of the Social Insurance Fund, with temporary loss of employment. Vassila BARTKIVA to the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science to prevent the shortening of the English language class and the schooling of the number two cities of the Central Buda Sumsk district. Stepan HMARI to the acting foreign minister, the minister of internal affairs on information about the presence of a prominent businessman, Igor Kolomoyski, in addition to the citizenship of Ukraine, is also the citizenship of the State of Israel. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Acting Minister of Justice for the removal of arrests from the accounts of the Ministry of Defence. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the restoration of legal status in passenger transport in the city of Kirovograd. Tamara PROSKURATO the Acting Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the reform of the long - term groups in schools in Uzhgrad. Katerina FOMENKO under the responsibility of the Minister of Education and Science for the implementation of article 40 of the Ukrainian Act on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2005 and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine. MICILI NOČENKA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Economics for the superficial consideration of the MP’s request for public scrutiny of public bills for the promotion of public service tariffs in Putivl Sumsk district. Mr. Vladimir NOVACA was under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence for the violation of legislation in the assignment of a pension to the military pensioner of a group II disabled, a resident of the city of Hmelnitsky. EUGEN HYRNIKA’S responsibility as Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the wrong actions of interior workers who prevented citizens with the flags of the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists from celebrating Independence Day in Kiev. MIKOLI MELNIKA under the responsibility of the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the statement made by the head of the Coordinating Council of the Disability Associations of Winničina. Istwana HYDOŠA to the executive responsibility of the Minister of Finance for the financing of objects at the expense of subsidies in the 72th district of Zacarpathia. National MPs' groups under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to establish an interdisciplinary district center based on Bila Church and the southern Kyiv region. [[CHELNOKOV, REDOVSKI, BONDARENKO]] Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Health regarding the situation in the Kirovograd district cardiospancer. MIKOLI COMARA to the executive responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to pay off debts on wages to employees of state - owned enterprises. Mr Paul Silent under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Minister of Finance for the Financing of Works for the Conservation of the National Hortica Reserve. WOLDIMIR KEY to the executive responsibility of the minister of health to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the patients of the Žitomir district health centre of vertebrology and rehabilitation and the inhabitants of the Žitomir region. Tamara PROSCURATO to the Head of the Cherka District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Cherkas region. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Head of the Poltava District Council on the legal basis for the establishment of district councillors and the approval of the former heads of the regime’s regime. Sergija LIKELY to the Head of the Equality District Administration for the Implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law “On Education” for Teachers, Science and Other Categories of Educational Workers” in the Plain Region. JANUARY to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the exercise of powers by the Simferopol regime within the limits established by the Constitution and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Alexander KARENKA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Sumski oblast. The branch of the Head to the Kiev City Head for the absence of any response from the city authorities to the request for a safe passage of the Chinese at the intersection of the streets of Vladimirské and Saxegan. Anatholics of the Writership to the Head of the Vinnick district administration on the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education, “On Education”, to the educational, scientific and other categories of staff of educational institutions” in the Vinicki region. Paul MATVIENKA to the Kiev City Head on the violation of property rights of members of the garage-building cooperative “Pokrovsky”. GREGORY OF CALETIANS to the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education, “On Education”, to teachers, academic and other categories of teaching staff” in the Chernigiv region. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the violation of the rights of landowners of the former council of the “Spytzekow” Kyivo-Svetoshin region of the Kyiv region regarding the receipt of State acts on land ownership. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Poltav region. Valentina MATWEJEVA to Kiev’s city head for the restoration of the function of kindergarten No. 418 in Kiev. Mr. Ivan Vernidubov to the Head of the Board, the Attorney-General, who is responsible for the Ministry of Internal Affairs for verifying the use of information on the use of ex-Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council by Peter Dustenk of his position to lobby personal business interests of a criminal nature. Mr Wojša to the Head of the Herson District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Herson Region. Boris HOT TO THE Head of the State Tax Administration on tax evasion in large-scale private enterprise “Universses” in the Volin region and the improper legal representation of the State Tax Administration in the courts. Igora ŠURMI to the Head of the Ternopil State Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Teachers and Other Categories of Teachers in the Ternopil Region. Michael ZUBBIA and Oleg YUCHNOVSKI to the Head of the Zaporozhye District Administration, Head of the Zaporozhye District Council on the wrong actions of individual officials of the Zaporez Region regarding the degradation of the land of the state research farm “Swietanka” Institute of Animal Engineering of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Pension Fund for the purpose of assigning a pension to a participant in the liquidation of an accident in Chernobyl AES. Sergey ŽIŽEKA to the Head of the Board on the persecution of TV “MlV” and its founders by law enforcement officials who have signs of corruption. Alexander GRANOVSKI to the Head of Kharkiv District Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law “On Education” for Teachers, Science and Other Categories of Education Workers” in Kharkiv Region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Chief of the Summary State Inspectorate for Price Control on the Grounds for raising housing and utility tariffs in the town of Krolevec Sumska District. Vladimir WOJA to the Head of the Zaporozhye District Public Administration for the implementation of the Act on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in Zaporezki oblast. Boris SLEEP to the Kiev City Head on the non-fulfilment of the Law on Housing for Persons with Disabilities of the Great Homeland War. Igora ŠURMI to the Head of the Lviv District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Lviv Region. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Head of the Vinnick district government for the provision of material assistance to Melnik, a writer and journalist, to improve living conditions. WOLDODIMARY PEACE to the Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Žitomir Region. Vladimir NOVAK to the Head of the Supreme Court regarding the delay in the consideration of the appeal against the decision of the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicke District on the violation of the law in force in the sale of housing by Kalina. Vadim MISURA to the Head of the Kyiv District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine “On Education” for Teachers, Science and Education and Other Categories of Education Workers” in the Kyiv Region. FIXA to the Head of Sevastopol City Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and Other Categories of Teachers in Sevastopol. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption on the Signs of Organized Crime in Reforming the Agricultural Sector in the village of Komarov in the Winnick district of Winnick. Mr. Nestor Šufric to the Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education, “On Education”, to teachers, academics and other categories of teaching staff” in the Ivano-Frankov region. Alexander KYSELVA to the Head of the Luhansk District Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Teachers and Other Categories of Teachers in the Lugansk Region. Vadima MISSURA to the Kiev City Head on the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, as provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in Kiev. Valery BORZOVA to the Head of Hmeljna District Public Administration for the implementation of the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff in the Hmeljna Region. FIXA to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the implementation of the Act on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Education Act. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for the implementation of the same law. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of the Mikolai District State Administration for the implementation of the same law in the Mikolai region. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration for the implementation of the same law in the Zakarpatsk region. Alexander KYSELOVA to the Head of the Donetsk district government regarding the implementation of the same law in the Donetsk region. Valery BORZOVA to the Head of the Provincial Regional Administration for the implementation of the same law in the Kirovograd region. MICHAEL DOBKINA to the Head of the Volin district government regarding the implementation of the same law in the Volin region. And Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Head of Odessa District State Administration for the implementation of the same law in the Odessa region. GREGORY CALETNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of Skomarowski in criminal responsibility for the illegal assignment of powers to the head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine after his release by Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 8 September 2005 at number 1235/2005. Anatolysa ORJAHOVSKI to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister regarding the failure of the Government of Ukraine to respond to proposals for the State's allocation in 2005 of funds for the implementation of investment projects for the liquidation of accidents in the housing and utilities of the communities of the Hersonian region. Igora ŠURMI and Mikhail DOBKIN to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff. Petra PISTARCHUKA and Mikaly Komara to the head of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen on the examination of the facts of the gross violation of citizens’ rights and the abuse of power by law enforcement authorities in the search of Lux’s premises, Donetsk. Mr. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the State Property Fund, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal privatization and other violations of the law of law by representatives of the Carpathian Atlantic Industrial Corporation in the economic structures of the Great Britain and the Zakarpat region. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General and the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs for the abuse of office and corruption by officials of the Lviv Regional Institute of State Administration of NADU at the President of Ukraine. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the head of the Cerka District Public Administration on the claim-and-requirement of the inhabitants of the Microregion of Cherkasa for violating their constitutional rights on the part of the city head of Volosin in granting permission to build a chemical-smuggling society with limited responsibility for the “Region”, the city of Kiev. Thus, honourable colleagues, 158 parliamentary inquiries have been made. According to factions: "Our Ukraine" - 8, Communists - 35, "Regions of Ukraine" - 20, SDPU (o) - 33, "One Ukraine" - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 7, National Party - 10, Socialist Party - 7, Timoshenko - 8, Industrial Party - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 10, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 9, "Reforms and Orders" - 3, NDP and Trudova Ukraine - 3, "Prefactional" - 3. We've actually used all the time we've been using to make parliamentary inquiries, information, statements, messages. And now we're going directly to the representations of MPs and factions. We invite Mikola Nightshenko from the faction of the political party “Go, Ukraine!” Prepare Vladimir Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u2	Nightshenko Mikola, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymira Litvina People's Block. Article 46 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act establishes that 420 million people's gas pipelines, primarily rural ones, are provided for the construction of gas pipelines. I would like to point out that this figure is calculated by Minfin, and it's voiced in this room by the minister of finance. In June of this year, the government approved the order of execution of objects as well as the list of objects. National deputies and executive authorities took part in the work. Today, it turns out that on September 1st a mere 13 million were gathered. Moreover, according to Naftogazu Ukraine, this figure of 420 million has already turned into 167. Question: "What was managed by the Ministry of Finance officially confirming the possibility of funding?" Confirming the list of objects, the Cabinet of Ministers did not know what the possibility or impossibility was? Who are we misleading? Your constituent citizens. These are mostly peasants who believed in the government, the Prime Minister, that this year there would be natural gas in their homes. Next. I would be happy to say that most of the disputes have arisen around the reprivatisation of businesses, and there have been frequent declarations about clean hands, separation of power from business. What do we really have? Today, almost every region has been activated with the process of “admission” or “reception”. I was approached by shareholders, the labor team of the Agrotechservis of the Krolevetsky district of the Rajdjadjanje on gross violations of the bankruptcy procedure of their business. An enterprise worth more than two million assets has been sold for 350 thousand. This is even less debt to the state. Today, workers are fired, and property is sold. For example, KAMAZ is sold for 400 dollars. Who's to blame? The committee of creditors was headed by a representative of the tax inspection which granted permission to do so. Second, he added his hand to this by an arbitrator. By the way, no one in our country controls this institution at all. The electorate is concerned that they expected improvement from the revolution, and again they have examples of the use of the position, the use of telephone rights from the top, etc. I'm talking. Please consider my statement as a request for government leadership, to take urgent steps to find sources of funding for making appropriate changes to the State Budget, and to see why public officials are not concerned or in favour of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u3	Yes, Vladimir Leschenko is invited from the Communist Party faction. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u4	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, the ancient Chernigs, the city of revolutionary, combat, guerrilla, labour glory, and no less famous Stors under the red flags celebrate the 62nd anniversary of liberation from German-Fashistic invaders. During those distant heroic days during September 1943, the whole of Montenegro was cleansed of Hitler’s invaders. This was made possible by the war effort of the soldiers of the Red Army, guerrillas and undergrounds, the triumphant work of the civilian population of a large country working for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This has been made possible by the organizational efforts of the Communist Party, the self - sacrifice of millions of Communists and unpartisans. The Montenegrins were released from the Central Front under the command of the general of the Rokosovsky army. 879 Soviet fighters and commanders of many nationalities from all Allied republics for bravery and heroism in the area were named Hero of the Soviet Union, 102 of them killed during the liberation of Montenegro. The battlegrounds included a large number of fighters and commanders of the Red Army. Their eternal memory and glory. The entire Soviet Union rebuilt the destroyed Chernigs and the area. In the shortest term, normal life was restored. The poor Polish region became a developed agricultural and industrial region of the Soviet Ukraine and was awarded Lenin's Order. But in 1991, bad times came again: in 14 years, the new bourgeoisie of Montenegro was once again in ruins. It's getting to the end of today's Yushchenka regime. He insolently deletes heroic pages from history, distorts undisputed facts, slanders all the Soviets, instills pseudo-geroogism of Fascist apprehension from the UN-OPA. At the commission of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I warmly welcome the people of Chernigov, Cors, other settlements in the Chernigian region with a celebration of liberation from fascism. I wish all workers health and happiness, new victories in the struggle for my rights. 62 years ago, we defeated the German brown national socialist plague. Soon the time will come for our victory over the pro - American orange plague of nationalists and socialists. Soviet Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u5	Mikola Onichuk is invited from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Prepare Tamara Proscorat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u6	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs considers it necessary to make a statement on the socio-economic and political situation in the country in the context of yesterday's vote on the Prime Minister's candidacy. As warned by the party, the tightening of the political struggle in society in connection with the expected elections and the calculation of the economic policies of the prodigal government has led to the halting of systemic transformations in Ukraine, a major deterioration of the socio-economic situation in the country, and questioning the implementation of vital social programs. In this situation, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs calls on all politically responsible forces in society to continue to look for ways to address the pressing problems of state-building, heart-warming economic issues, and to prevent the deterioration of the people's standard of living. This requires putting off all ambitions and injustices, finding compromise, and understanding in solving the most important issues of the day. Among the urgent and high-priority issues, the Industrial and Business Party sees the adoption of the budget for the following year, which should provide for radical tools to stimulate business initiative, employment, such as public work financing, new roads, further development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and improvement of the investment climate. [[And that's what I want to stress.]] In doing so, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs points out that under the conditions that have arisen, the viability of the social machinery will depend in many ways on the speediest possible formation of the new government, its ability, its stability and its ability to quickly analyse and effectively influence the key processes of socio-economic development in the country. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs sees that in the event of a deepening crisis scenario that may pose a threat to public, national and social interests, the Party does not exclude the introduction of direct presidential rule as a form of executive power, which may or may not be the only way out of the political crisis. That is why the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, its faction in Parliament, urges other political forces, all its colleagues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not to allow further escalation of the government crisis, which primarily had a negative impact on the adoption of the State's budget and, in the future, on the conditions of permanent parliamentary opposition to the political factions and blocs to the economic destruction of the Ukrainian State. The faction and the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u7	Tamara Proskuratov is invited from the faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] John Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u8	During the next parliamentary race, representatives of each political force will consider their own electoral field to be educational, which they will once again swear in love and promise universal support. We need to talk about this, because a year ago the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, initiated by the deputies of our faction, became effective. Which predicts that this creditor debt is mandatory for repayment for five years. But unfortunately, the law only works on paper. So the faction of SDPU(o) requires the President, the government to execute its electoral declarations to the education community. Sadly, the President promised yesterday that there would be no more political repression, recognizing their existence. Yeah, who's going to take responsibility for the fact that the rectors of colleges like: Kuzmin's Anatoly Ivanovich of Cherkas, Kuz Vladimir Grigorovitch of Umani, was forced by new pressure to leave office. Today, I must speak of the wrong actions on the part of the Governor of Chernigiv district of Mr. Atroshenka, who exerts pressure on the Rector of the University of Nižin, James Vasil Pavlovich, regardless of how much he has done to build a university, despite the fact that the Rector now demands his release. Forced under pressure by the new authorities to leave office as head of the Education Department. The district of Cerkas region of Snejko, Alexander Ivanovich, was rightly considered to be one of the best district managers. And now my fellow educators are asking me to protect myself from the professional nevilleism of the newly appointed Sandman, Tamila Vasilovna. Whether a person who did not teach a single lesson had not planted any flowers near the school, could not cross the edge of a second - category specialist, teach the principals how to run a school. And the mass release of school principals and a good director takes 10 years to grow. Painfully, professionalism is a victim of partiality. But in the history textbook for the 5th class, the orange revolution was given as if there had never been a more important event. Just as now a poor teacher can explain to ten - year - old schoolgirls, for which the most successful government is made up of the most active participants in the revolution is retired. We do not share the appropriateness of the facts when in many schools, such as Mukachev Zacarpathian School, where the director of Tai is. Yuri Josephovich, the students wrote a story on "How did the lives of Ukrainians change for the better with President Yushchenk?" This reminds us of the 37th year when during the famine, political repression in school hung Stalin's portraits and cried, "Life has gotten better. Life has become more fun." We believe that politics should be separate from school.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u9	Thank you. Ten seconds for a woman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u10	We believe that politics should be separate from school, and a teacher, regardless of political affiliation, must carry out his high mission by sowing in a child’s soul a wise, good, everlasting one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Thank you. Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki is invited to speak. Thank you. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to prepare Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u12	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear colleagues! Yesterday in this room, the head of the Communist faction again heard attempts to tie the Socialists to the corruptionists, sounding the impertinent slogan “nationalist socialist authorities”. I'm not going to comment on this slogan, because I'm going to comment on it, and I'm going to go down to the level of intellectual poverty of their authors, with neither truth nor conscience. But I want to protect the honor and dignity of our comrade and of our recent colleague, the Minister of Education and Science, Stanislaw Nikolayenka. The hatred of individual communist leaders, I repeat, not Communists at all, but their leaders before him long ago. None of the bushmen were so fiercely campaigning against him during the elections as the heirs of the Stalin Gulag. And even on the day of our friend’s terrible tragedy, some of these friends of the people did not stop in the vicious attacks, which is understandable: The heirs of the Stalinists, who sent millions to die, did not become accustomed to one man’s grief. Now the leaders. The CPI is attacked by Nikolainka, for which he was not involved, for the problems of specific schools, confusing the functions of the Ministry and local self - government, are accused of sins for which the minister is responsible, not the minister, but the local authorities. So they want to discredit the Minister of Education and Science, and they want to discredit the Socialist Party. Meanwhile, the educated are almost unanimous in the fact that Ukraine did not have such an active, hardworking and prudent minister for a long time. You can borrow it. It was this year that Minister Nicolanek’s initiative that government orders increased from 37 percent to 51 percent in colleges, an open road to free learning for talented children from the poor. And this job is going to continue, because the goal of socialists is free education. There's been a test at universities this year, which excludes any corruption from joining them. Finally, real measures have been taken to support the teacher, raising 57 percent of the teacher’s salary. And there's a result: the number of vacancies in schools has been reduced by 10 times. The teacher goes back to school. As for textbooks, it is necessary to know at least the basics of competition rules and the minister, as it should be in a democratic society, cannot influence the decisions of a college of experts. And loud claims to textbooks are too controversial to be perceived as the truth in the last instance. They certainly need to be improved, and this will be done, but on the basis of scientific conclusions rather than the political claims of those who led and kept Kuchma in power and are now being baptized by him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Let's make this happen, I'm asking you, if there's any trouble exchanging lines, let's trade. [[Now you're talking.]] Please. Lilia Grigorovitch of the faction "Our Ukraine" is invited to the performance. Prepare Viacheslav Kowalya
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u14	Lilia Grigorovich, People's Union "Our Ukraine". Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! From this rostrum, we hear very often angry, revealing, political backbits. And that's the right thing to do. From this rostrum, the highest legislative rostrum, we often hear anxious social speeches, and that's right, it's part of our parliamentary powers. But our electorate, this intelligent civil society that's outside the walls of this House, is asking us: "Honorous politicians, honourable national MPs, do you understand the strategy and the strategy of state-building?" Don't you think that all of this sometimes resembles a car, a car with gas, but no brakes? So let's do a kind of progressive motion simulation. Dear friends, that's why I want to start, not political, not social, but theoretically speaking, I hope the Head of the Supreme Council, a scientist, a historian will pay attention to this, and we understand both the strategy and the tactics of our nation-building. Of course, three things are needed to accomplish any task: time, tool and purpose. The noble goal of a farmer, sculptor, or artist is well - known. So is the time limit. A tool for each of us: a plow, a brush, a cutter. The question is, Does today’s newly elected president have a full-blown instrument of power? No, it's not. We have the same parliament, we have the same rural, rural, district councils, we have the same judicial system. Can you change everything in seven months that was 70 plus 14? Also, no. We've all studied dialectic. But then there's the third thing, the goal. The goal is national interests. And however good it is to be in opposition, the slogan "Cytus, Aytus, Fortius," yet "up higher, better, more" should be subordinated to national interests. This fall is two years old, as democratic changes have taken place in Georgia. The people of Georgia first won democratically the local elections, then parliamentary and finally elected the President. And I would like again, I have a theoretical lecture, asking all of you and those on the left side of me and the center, and right: friends, and why is Nino Burjanadze and Mikhailo Saakashvili together? Guys, why are they together? Because national interests are higher than subjective and corporate interests. Friends, and why, in solving the social, economic, corruption problems that have come into existence, does the Georgian political elite use all the mechanisms other than revealing political press conferences? Because national interests are higher. Finally. Why isn't the ex-president saving for the impeachment of an active president? Because national interests, their understanding is higher. And the last. Tonight's television show yesterday showed that our voters want stability. Those who did not vote in favour of the new government yesterday voted against the interests of the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u15	For a woman, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u16	Conclusion: Those in this room today who do not grow up to understand the national interests that the Ukrainian people are saving will be cast into the next elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u17	Thank you. Viacheslav Koval from the faction The National Movement of Ukraine is invited to the presentation. Prepare Leonid Issaeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u18	Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me make a statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement on the so-called language issue in Ukraine. During the days of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and individual Russian politicians, a number of allegations were made regarding the so - called violation of the rights of Russian - speaking citizens of Ukraine. This time, the reason for such allegations was the takeover of the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Judiciality, which established the country's national language, the Ukrainian language, as the language of the judiciary throughout Ukraine. It is widely known that the Constitution and laws of Ukraine spell out in detail all rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, including the use and use of the national language and languages of national minorities. Therefore, setting up a language of judiciality throughout Ukraine will not prohibit citizens of Ukraine from national minorities at their request or, if necessary, use the language of their communication. It is worth reminding us that the most liberal rules on language are in place in Ukraine. It is worth recalling that in the Russian Federation itself, laws impose mandatory use throughout the Russian State as a state language in relations with federal authorities, State authorities of Russian Federation entities, local self - government bodies, the organization of all forms of property and citizens of the Russian Federation, foreign citizens, stateless persons, and social associations. This is not the first time our neighbor of the Russian Federation has heard far from good neighbourly statements. Moreover, there is an increase in the number of cases where such claims are made by Russian government authorities. We believe that similar, groundless accusations can only be made by political forces and politicians whose activities are aimed at provoking the division of Ukrainian society by means of language and the poisoning of Ukrainian-Russian relations. The obligation of every state and patriotic and democratic political power must be to protect its national language, because without language there is no state. In this context, we will not allow any artificial invention in Ukraine of problems that do not really exist, but from the state authorities of Ukraine we will require decisive action on persons who systematically allow their anti-Ukraine statements. Such action is no place in Ukraine. Ukraine’s national movement will stand in the position of not discriminating against citizens by language, but we will not give anyone a native Ukrainian language. Let us speak English. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u19	Leonid Isaev is invited from the faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u20	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine agreed to a political compromise and for the benefit of the people of Ukraine, signing the Declaration on Unity and Cooperation. We hoped that the authorities would fulfil their commitments. The authorities have undertaken to cease violations of the rights of Ukrainian citizens, in particular the right to privacy. However, it appeared that the authorities were seeking to use the declaration only as a technology to achieve temporary political calm and regroup their forces. There is still a deep gap between the beautiful words and the real actions of the authorities. Even after the declaration was signed, the heartless machine of repression did not reduce traffic. The search at the office of Lux's Donnelly firm was an egregious manifestation of legal nihilism by the police. On 18 September, thanks to the Ukrainian TV channel, the whole State was given the opportunity to see how harshly the forces violated the Constitution, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Police Act. Without legitimate grounds, the police took on a storm, by the way, with the use of armoured equipment, the office of a peaceful commercial structure. The militias had beaten the staff and fired at the defenceless. Without participation, the firm's service records were seized. The surveillance cameras recorded the personnel where the police were stealing office personnel' personal belongings. The apopheism of Marazma was the situation when a staff member, not even a luxuries, but a neighbor of the dining room, where the eagles of Lucenko were accidentally attacked by a policeman because she was too slow to get up, and then she went to the hospital. The disgraceful actions of the militia remain unpunished, giving a signal to the opposition - declarations, moles, are not written for you. Green light is on for the continuation of terror. The “moral” authority is demonstrating to the uncontrollable business on whose side the power and the law are. The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” Party requires the President of Ukraine to respect the word publicly, in particular the continued respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens and the denial of the violation of property rights. We demand the punishment of the guilty. This is Deputy Minister Gennady Moskal, the Directorate General for Crime Control, Sergei Kornić, and the head of the Donetsk Region of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mikhail Kluev. And the last. The faction reiterates. If the authorities refused to agree, the regions of Ukraine would withdraw their signature under a declaration of unification and cooperation for the future of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u21	To the presentation is invited from the faction of the Yulia block of Timoshenko Victor Teren. Prepare Valery Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u22	Victor Terrence, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland Party. My dear friends. Yesterday the Head of the Supreme Council during the Yehanurov vote was instructed to block the cards of the missing deputies. And names were given, including Joulinsky, Klukkowski, and others. Printing revealed that they had voted. The secretarial staff say that cards cannot be blocked in principle. In addition, there were votes and no deputies, such as Cibulko, Culczynski, and many others. And when we made a real calculation, 199 deputies voted for Yehanurova yesterday. 199 deputies. All of it. And that's why our faction requires the Head of the Supreme Council and the Secretariat to organize the work in such a way that there is, indeed, a roll-call vote provided for by law. And I ask you to consider my statement as a question to the Head of the Supreme Council, which will be done to make it impossible to do the same in the future. And it's also a moral aspect. Dear friends, if we're saying that the reforms in this room were voted on by hands and feet, tell me, what missing parts of the body were voted on here yesterday for Yehanurova? Second, our faction did not vote for Yehanurova yesterday, not because of the personal insult associated with Julia Timoshenko’s resignation. No, it's not. Although her government has achieved remarkable results. The problem is that the Prime Minister's rating has been higher than the President's. We didn't vote just because we didn't know who to vote for. We couldn't vote for cats in a bag, even if these cats were fat. Although the composition of the new government is not difficult to predict: it will be an old government for one third, another third will be distributed to vote, and one third, my dears, will be the people of Pinchuck. This government is being sprayed as a Christmas goose with apples and mushrooms, and this government will become a bond between the old clans, the preserved ones, the triumphant ones today, and the new clans. And believe me, the President himself will be the hostage of this government. And the last. Yulia Timoshenko blames her desire for reprisals. But my dear friends, she wanted only through court, within the legal framework, to return what was stolen from them. And by the way, it was a big match for the gas, it was a big match for the electoral gas that the rich would share with the poor. But the rich don't share. And as it is said in the series, the rich today do not cry. The rich do not cry except for Peter Prashenko, in whom the MP’s mandate was removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before Valérie's speech, may I have your attention, Your Honor, before Valérie Konovaluk's speech, please give some help. I'd like to ask my colleagues not to speculate. Yesterday, look at the transcript, it was stated that the cards of the missing deputies, who are on a business trip or in a hospital, have been deleted. But technically, it's impossible to do that right away. So it was said that these voices would not. Look, I know you're very much. Don't get hot. It was said that these voices would not be counted. And it's written in the transcript, and you don't have to talk every time. When you insist that only those present in the room should be voted on all the time, do not become feverish, for the situation will change, and you will vote in favour of others. Please don't burn. I didn't call your last name. Valery Konovaluk from the faction of the People's Democratic Party and the Labour Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, voters, radio listeners! Indeed, this statement can be heard and perceived after the predecessor, what is this proposal, what is really, the situation in the state and the deepening of the political crisis are the negative consequences of socio-economic development, cannot help but disturb our citizens today. I am confident that today only the Supreme Council is capable of strengthening its influence to stop these destructive processes in the state. We realize that this cannot apply solely to the positions of individual political forces, because a situation that is already critical cannot leave the winners unconquered. We need to be clear with you that the issue of the struggle for power is not a question of rebuilding a state that society will feel confident about. The real way to solve this problem is really to strengthen the situation in Parliament as a legislative body and to take on the issues that depend on the Supreme Council today. We cannot say before the consideration of the State budget that the economic situation requires immediate intervention. We need to understand and honestly tell people what is going on in the country. I want you to warn me, and yet I want you to contact those who call upon the creation of the second stage. This area will be destroyed by Ukraine at last. We need you to understand that today's situation, it's artificially provoked and it's making it impossible for us to actually build a normal democratic society. We also refer to the President of Ukraine with the requirements of article 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the introduction of an annual message to the Supreme Council on the socio-economic situation in 2005. We need to offer you a relationship that will, in fact, enable us to balance our efforts and influence the situation in a way that prevents us from destroying the main – the future election campaign. I also want to turn to all the voters who are actually insisting today that the state authorities work and protect their interests. We cannot say calmly when most of our society is losing stability today, is losing peace today, and is actually beyond that limit that makes it impossible for us to build our own country with our own efforts. I'm sure that this position, it needs harmony and consideration, first of all, the conditions that will allow Ukraine to acquire a democratic, open-minded state with a clear policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski of the “Reform and Order” faction is invited to the presentation. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky Dear colleagues! Dear voters and radio listeners! I am absolutely convinced that that political screwdriver, those political fireworks, that dust smoke after the shots of political duellants will develop sooner or later, but it will develop. And I'm convinced that we should still think about things that are life and things that are eternal, not temporary. I went up to this rostrum to draw your attention and the attention of Ukrainian society to such a thing. You know, I've been trying, like, for over two years, beyond Kuchma, and for today's power to get to know how many presidential, government, state residences are hanging on Ukraine's taxpayers' neck. It's totally natural in any country. And today, I can tell you that after spending so much time in front of legends, in addition to cold and Jesuit writings, I don't know what's in this country. That's why I'd like to pay attention today to just one thing: to remind you and the radio audience. About the 1930s, in the famous Sanhedrin Monastery and the Council, it's an amazing place where Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko used to paint him, where he's amazing, rare, I'd say, a cemetery, a cemetery of Cossacks who lived their own age, Cossacks with disabilities. A wonderful place any nation would keep as a sanctuary. On those bones, corporate leaders built residences in the 1930s. To this day, all of this is going on. One hundred and fifty acres [140 ha] of wonderland. And what I want to tell you is that when we came to salvation with the people, under the Highlands, we decided to go in and put flowers on the graves, maybe even the non-existent graves of these Cossacks, I was not allowed there as a deputy. The fence reads: "The passage is forbidden. It's dangerous for life." This is the passage to the famous source of the Bell well that Taras Shevchenko even mentioned in exile. Until recently, Janukovich had nested there. I don't know who was going there, whether Janukovich, or someone, or a new assignment, or anyone else. But once again, my letters to the President, to the prime ministers, have no results. I want to pay attention today: 140 hectares is feudalism. You want to have a residence there for guests, enough for 3-4 hectares. And the rest of it would have to be a reserve, or a memorial. I am convinced that whatever the desire of authority, we must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u27	John the Rabbit is invited from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u28	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! A frequent change of government is the plight of the Ukrainian people. Sadly, the new authorities were unable to break this sad tradition. It was not because the new government underestimated the destructive, destructive resistance of the old government, that it underestimated the importance of national and democratic ideology in government. Despite the arrival of many new people, the old authorities have virtually preserved all their frames and influences. The principle of separating business from power was implemented not only in terms of all power, but also in terms of the new ones. The new authorities also underestimated the destructive potential of the so - called political reform, particularly the extremely bad deadline for bringing changes into force in the Constitution. In democratic states, changes in the form of government take place at least through the office of the President after the decisions have been made. In our case, such changes should come into force on January 1, 2006. Many now yearn to live by these changes and are artificially weakening the presidency. The Ukrainian People’s Party expresses its concern about the political situation in the country from which it sees the formation of a new government as soon as possible. At the same time, we, the nationals, turn to all those involved in the conflict: stop in our destructive activities, think about the interests of the people, about the fate of Ukraine. We call for an end to the strife and a reunification of efforts to finally consolidate the ideals of the arena and the Ukrainian revolution in general. The Ukrainian National Party confirms its requirements in forming a new government. We don't take the position that a new government should be a technical government. Any government is an authority, and the requirements for its formation and responsibility for the activities of this government must be the same as any other government. We want everyone to realize that this government is not technical, that the requirements for this government are high enough. In forming a government, the principle of separation of business from power must be fully realized, no exceptions should be made. Business subjugation leads to a state - owned business mentality for which to suppress a rival, a sacred cause. In power there must be politicians who are patriots and professionals, for whom it is essential to ensure the unity of the nation by reconciling the interests of the whole society. The Ukrainian People’s Party demands that the fight against the Mafia and corruption be intensified, and it is not possible to turn it back. In order to successfully fight the Mafia and corruption, we, honourable national deputies, need to establish institutional mechanisms as soon as possible, namely the establishment of a special prosecutor's institution and commission of inquiry to investigate the illegal actions of senior officials. The law on the Cabinet of Ministers, on the Office of the President, on other organs should also be passed as soon as possible. The Ukrainian People’s Party insists on final cleansing of power from those who have discredited themselves, damaging the image of power and the state. We are in favour of a illustration of the people who have stained themselves in public office. And you don't have to protect these people by making a loud statement about political repression. Ukrainian People’s Party
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u29	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Igor Jeremeyev of the People’s Party is invited to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u30	Statement by the MP of the People's Party. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The first cause of the political crisis that has now taken place in the U.S. official olympus has been serious calculations in human resources policy. This is now evident as God’s day. The new authorities, overly engrossed in the formation of state bodies with the principle of “otherworldly, ” put under them fugases that over a six-year period spread the hopes of people to proper authority. And they rejected the economy of the state to the point of stagnation. The faction of the People’s Party has repeatedly claimed that absolutely absurd illustrations are unacceptable. We protested against the persecution of people, for their political choices, and we called for cooperation and understanding. However, they did not want to hear us. Experienced professionals were squeezed out everywhere, fired from work with gross violations of labour legislation solely on political grounds. We continue to do so today. The most vivid example of the nonsense created by the new authorities may be the Plains region. Here are the victims of total cleaning and repression by most school principals, health officials, and other budgetary authorities. The new appointed heads of these institutions are wearing exclusively political color. As a result, instead of working on a regular basis, the newly appointed guard conducts open preparations for the electoral campaign. In doing so, the area cannot boast of any achievements in the economy or in the social sphere. Unfortunately, equality is no exception. In almost all regions, there are examples of people in positions of responsibility who are completely distant, open - minded, or generally conflicting with the Criminal Code. This is true of Gitomirsk, Kharkivsk, Zakarpatsk, Cherniewsky, and other areas. All of this discredits our citizens and discredits our citizens, for the first thing people do is appreciate the authority of their local authorities. The failure of such methods has been acknowledged by the President himself by signing the Declaration of Unity and Cooperation for Ukraine's Future. He confirmed the problem. The People's Party and faction are proposing to the President to stop personnel from vacchanalism, the horde on the ground, free from random people, return to the work of experienced specialists. In doing so, we generally demand that the main criteria in shaping both the new government and the entire authority vertical be professional training and moral qualities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u31	The honourable national MPs, on the other hand, have made a request to give the opportunity to make a statement to Vladimir Goszowski with the signatures of the "prefactional". I'll do the math. Well, more than 12 signatures. Then, please, in accordance with the Rules, and then, Boris Olijnik’s speech will remain in connection with the MP’s request. All necessary documents have been drawn up. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the media. The requirement to announce this appeal comes not only from me, not only from those MPs who supported me, but also from Mikola Dmitrovitch Chernickin, who announced from September 12th that hunger was required to meet the head of the Socialist Party, and from hundreds of socialists who are now standing at the Supreme Council. Everyone is aware of the recent situation within the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I recall that on September 3rd, there was an extraordinary meeting of the SPE, which decided to dissolve Kharkivski Komunci and Kharkiv City’s SPO. This policy decision, in fact, annulled the activities of the most numerous, most active, most effective regional PSP. Eight thousand socialists living in Kharkiv and the area were actually eliminated from the ranks of the party to which they believed, the party to which they shared ideas. Such action by the social leadership can be viewed as an attempt to get rid of a large portion of the ISP and to divide it into party lines. We express a strong disagreement with such actions. We will not kill the faith of the people of Kharkivsk, in the SPI, in the idea of a socialist, democratic movement in Ukraine. Let us not betray the followers of our party. We consider it a party and a human duty to do everything we can to prevent the division of society. And we've already taken a number of steps. First, the real reasons for this decision were clarified. Our second step was to bring them to court, in which, in the document we filed, we made it illegal to declare a polytradical decision. The correctness of our steps is reflected in the more than 12,000 signatures that are collected among the members of our party. These signatures were voluntarily placed by socialists not only in the Kharkiv region but throughout Ukraine. And today, here in the session room, in the presence of the leadership of the Supreme Council, in the presence of distinguished national MPs, representatives of the media, I would like to convey these signatures to the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. And I'm addressing you, Alexander Alexanderovich, come to your senses, you're acting unconstitutionally, illegally, and you're killing a social-democratic idea in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, Boris Illich is invited to attend. Please have three minutes in accordance with the Rules in response to an unsatisfaction with a parliamentary request. We'll be done in a minute, we'll make a deal. Let's get this over with, one last speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u34	Dear comrades, dear colleagues. I have dealt with this problem more than once. As reported by the press, on September 6th, Vienna held a meeting of the Chernobyl Forum, attended by eight UN agencies, representatives of more than sixty MAGATE member countries, at which part of the participants supported the UN report on the exaggeration of nearly 20 years of the CHAES disaster. Here's my quote. "For the widespread national masses, concerns about Chernobyl's radiation were exaggerated. People in disaster-affected regions with little exception live a normal life.” That's what Kalman Mizzey from the United Nations Development Programme talked about. He even dared to accuse the three governments of the countries affected by the disaster of “building the industry on this accident.” We simply have no right to abandon such blasphemy without proper reprisal. In our hearts are the ashes of the dead, which have obscured the world from radiation, and we are called by living black people who struggle daily with excruciating torments. Back in 1986, I had a discussion with the president of the Academy of Sciences. Remember, he too tried to brush his teeth about the fear of radiation. He said our reactors were so safe that they could be placed under the bed of young people. I told him that it was usually easy for him to speak, since he was already at the age when the academics would not harm the entire AES under the bed. Soon, however, the scientist acknowledged his tragic mistake, especially that he was one of those who put Chaes under the heart of the three Slavic nations. And almost 20 years later, so-called scholars blaspheme over the graves of deadly radiation, over the thousands hit by Chernobyl and even from the UN rostrum. In particular, similar words of fornication have been provocatively sounded on the threshold of 20 years since the day of the cosmic tragedy. Since these events are all about our national dignity, I believe that the Supreme Council is obliged to give an antihumanist firm reprisal and to listen to the report of the participants of the forum on the Ukrainian side and first of all the academics of Vladimir Grigorovitch Bebečka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, there were two lines. Please, Peter Simonenko and Alexander Frost. Rudzkowski will be there, won't he? All right. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u36	Simonenko, the Communist faction. What are socialists so concerned about, and why are they deliberately smoldering us Communists? Because they don't want to understand that socialists have to be constantly and always. Together with John Alexander Gerasim, we have defended the great victory by addressing the minister of education several times, who have stopped harassing the veterans of the Great Homeland War, because there are still children being taught today because it is as if the bandits are heroes, and the Red Army are the invaders. Here we have asked you to delete this disgraceful page from this manual. The other one. We demand that a socialist minister finally stop bullying and practice political repression against schoolchildren. The Flag. The Orange Revolution is a textbook on bandits, thieves and crooks. It's about the corrupts you told me about. What do you children teach such a story? That's why I wanted to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u37	Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u38	Dear Communist brothers and dignitaries of the Company's leadership. Stop, in the end, the empty and unnecessary rhetoric about the accusations of socialists. You know very well that the minister has no bearing on the textbook, for it was published before he became minister. But the details are still, let's see, you're always pointing to that part of the hall that's supposed to be responsible for the collapse of the great state. You didn't separate yourself from your previous leaders, from your history, you squandered that state. You hid in the bushes in '91. You have served the previous regime. They betrayed the people of Ukraine in 99th year, their expectations. And now you say you've warned? So please stop this rhetoric. It's not for the benefit of the cause, it's not for the benefit of the people. You don't have to do that. The one where I'm talking to you, and you can't calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellows, enough, please. What? That's enough, please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'll tell you what. I know what this is about. I know, Alexander Alexanderovich, but let me tell you a chance. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There was a line on the one hand and a line between the lines. But since Goshovsky’s performance was still there, they have the right to do so. Dear colleagues, I ask you to follow the Rules. I'm going to the Rules. Please calm down. Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u40	Dear fellow national MPs! Vladimir Goszowski's speech is a demonstration of a planned and planned action. Vladimir Gosholski’s socialists took up their ranks three months ago. And this man led the Harkay party organization. We believed him. But for subversive anti-party activities, according to the statute, he and three other men were expelled from the ranks of the party organization and reregistered by the Harkow Party Organization. All these steps, including today's presentation, indicate that this action was planned. We and the polytrade will not allow regional party organisations to privatize or create from the Socialist Party of the ICC. And that's why they're going to swear in the future. We believe that the party organization of Kharkiv is capable of itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u41	We counted it. Now the Communist factions did not make another replica. Please, one more line and there'll be an even number right there. Please, who am I going to be with? Who will act? Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u42	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I am outraged by the slander that came out of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz's mouth today. I want to remind you, Alexander Alexandrovich, I told you that without the microphone, now I'm repeating it into the microphone. Who hasn't written down the Supreme Council's decision to recognize the illegal ban on the Company? You. In October 1991, who came here to Kiev? We wanted to restore the activities of the Company of Ukraine, and you told us to give up this idea: let's create a new Socialist Party to get rid of everything in the past. You did, you convinced the assembly, although the delegation, including the Harkovchan, 28 people, insisted that the activities of the Company of Ukraine should be restored, knowing that this was an illegal ban. Why are you slandering the communists? You're an apostate from a communist and socialist idea, you were among those who banned the party here, who destroyed the Soviet Union and destroyed Soviet Socialist Ukraine, you were among those 239 who voted in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u43	Please, Your Honor, on the issues raised in the speeches of the national MPs who spoke from the MPs and factions. I'm asking the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate response, assignment, referral, something else. Now listen to the announcement, please. In accordance with paragraph 3 of article 4.2.1 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Regions of Ukraine" dated 20 September 2005, I inform of the exclusion of the national deputies of Ukraine Boyk Volodymyr Semenović and Matvienkov's Sergey Anatoliyovich from the party's deputy faction "Regions of Ukraine". The honourable national deputies, at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we agreed to consider three issues today: first, the government's information on the implementation of the 2005 State Budget in seven months of the current year. [[I beg your attention, dear fellows!]] It is planned that we will be able to complete the discussion of three questions at the morning session: the report of the Acting Minister of Finance, Pinzenic Viktor Mihajlovich, in 15 minutes, the answer to the question, in seven minutes, the report of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on the Budget, Konovluk Valerija Ilić, five minutes and a statement by the head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenka Valentino Kostinović, in seven minutes. Information from the National Bank of Ukraine Stelma on the implementation of monetary policy in 2005 and the basic principles of monetary policy for 2006. To present the first deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Sapovalova Anatolia Vasilovica, within seven minutes, asked questions, if any, within five minutes. Presentation of the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine 2006 and report of the Acting Minister of Finance to 15 minutes. The answers to the questions are up to seven minutes. A report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Ludmila Pavlovna Suprun, within 10 minutes, answers to questions in five minutes. Then take the time remaining to speak from MPs, factions, and national MPs. No warning? Well, the committees, of course, yes. How long will it take? The point is that we need to complete our consideration of three questions for a maximum of 14 hours for 15 minutes. Count it, dear fellows. So I'm offering to work without interruption, because we took an hour of 40 minutes for speeches, statements, and messages. If we can work, let's say by 2:30 a.m., that's the maximum, we're going to break some of our rules. We therefore turn to the first question: information from the Government of Ukraine on the implementation of the 2005 State Budget in seven months of the current year. Reporter is acting as Finance Minister Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Victor Mikhailovich, please. If you don't mind. It'll be better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We gave you, along with the draft budget, a section that contains the performance characteristics of the budget, the State Budget in seven months. Now we have already clarified information and we're going to give you more information about the situation, which is based on the total of eight months of the year. We would like to remind you that early this year the budget situation was not just difficult but critical. The budget deficit was more than 33 billion dollars. The budget did not provide sufficient funds to pay pensions to Ukrainian pensioners. The minimum pension size was lower, the minimum wage of 70 dollars was lower than the minimum wage. The changes to the budget this year, which were adopted in March, allowed not only to balance the budget but also to solve a number of problems: to provide resources for a pension fund at the minimum of living, to move away from the pension balance and to make the first step of differentiated retirement pensions and earnings; to balance, to minimize the minimum pension rate of minimum wage, to take the first step towards the tariff of paid wages, and from the first September of this year along with the minimum wage, to raise the prestige of skilled work. I want to inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers has taken a decision, and the government budget for these goals is 1.4 billion dollars distributed among the areas. And in the coming days, we're going to fund these costs to the areas. A number of other social programs have been implemented that relate to the birth of a child, to the care of orphans, to the payment of pensions to military pensioners. All these programs were funded on time from the State Budget. I would like to point out that we did not go beyond the budget deficit during this period. What's more, I can tell you that today's budget is running out of deficits. We did not go beyond the increasing volume of government debt. Last day, even the amount of borrowing is lower than the amount of debt owed by 300 million dollars. How is the budget being budgeted in quantity? This year, changes to the budget were expected to bring about a serious increase in the revenue of the State budget. I'm asking you to show me the picture. This year, the budget’s income was to be increased by 53 percent. We have information in eight months. In fact, income by last year increased by 55 percent. The state budget's overall budget target is 58 percent increase. Today we have an increase of 76 percent to last year's level. The 8 - month budget received 82.9 billion dollars or 48 percent more in the past year, including the State budget of 64.7 billion and local budgets of 18.3 billion, 27 percent more last year. Under the general government budget fund, which is the basis for all programmes, primarily social. During the eight months of the planned 50.7 billion dollars, the State budget actually reached 54.2 billion. That's seven percent more than budgeted, or an absolute 3.4 billion more. During the 9 months of this year, the general government budget fund's income is 71 billion more than the income for the corresponding period of last year. In eight months, more money was received from the general fund than in the past year. The material of the second graph that shows the share of income in 8 months to the annual schedule. I would like to point out that in the last year, in the last eight months, 59.7% of actual revenues have been received from the general fund. This year we got 66.8% more to the general fund, or 6% more. This gives us reason to say that we're going to get to the planned execution rates of the state budget. The chief administrators, customs and tax officers. The state tax administration has provided 31 billion dollars to the state budget -- almost at income level last year, or 65% to the planned rate for the year. Compared to last year, this figure was 59.6%. According to the State Customs Service, 8 months of arrivals account for 65.9 percent compared to 61.4 last year. The State Customs Service provided $1.5 billion more in revenue in 8 months this year than it had been in the past year. What is the situation with income from basic taxes? We have good dynamics based on basic budgetary indicators: income tax, value added tax, and other types of tax. Planned income tax tasks are performed at 119%. Compared to last year's increase in income tax revenue, 62% of the increase to last year. According to the Excise Assembly, the government budget is 101% compared to the government budget. By last year, the rate of arrival had risen by 29 percent. The value added tax is 113%, and we want to point out that in the past year, the State budget has received a 16 billion dollar added tax. During the 8 months of this year, 23 billion dollars of value added tax were added to the State Budget. The increase in the value added tax by last year is almost twofold, 95% of the increase by last year, resulting in an increase in income that ensures this increase in income, especially since there are some alarming signals at the rate of national economic development. This year there was a serious legalization of economic activity. Many of the shadow schemes that were in operation last year have disappeared this year. And this year, we have a much higher rate of taxation in terms of gross domestic product compared to last year. And this was seen in the comings of some of the taxes that I've already talked about. Notice the first graph. The Blue Background is coming to the budget as a percentage of gross domestic product last year. The red line shows the trends this year. Starting in March of this year, revenue from the budget is 5% higher than last year's gross domestic product. And this trend is still being maintained. This trend, the gap, is made up of 8 months this year. It should be noted, therefore, that much of this result has been achieved at the expense of the first steps in customs order. So I'm asking you to pay attention to customs revenue in terms of gross domestic product. There was a very critical situation at the beginning of the year when the customs revenue was 4.1% of the gross domestic product. The first two months were less than last year. Now we have about 2.2 percent more GDP compared to last year. In other words, customs ensures that the budget comes at about 7.7-7.8 percent to the gross domestic product. Information often has to be heard, and it makes sense that the budget overrun is due to incomplete tax compensation for the added value. In the reports made on behalf of the government of the Ministry of Finance, we have always stressed that the money needed to be adjusted to the VAT problem. Because the unreparable amount of VAT is included in the income. I'd like to inform you that today, the amount of outstanding debt on the value added tax is 2.6 billion dollars. And it went down compared to the last month when it was 3.3 billion. If you add up the budget in eight months to 3.4 billion plus debt under VAT to 2.6 billion, these figures give you reason to say that the budget is in progress. I would like to inform you about the VAT compensation situation that took place this year. In August, serious progress was made in resolving the debt problem. If an average of 830 million dollars were reimbursed from the budget in the last seven months, this is a blue fund, returned from the State Budget to exporters 1.4 billion dollars. That's 105 percent of the planned rate. And we've gone from eight months to 85 percent VAT return. And I hope that this month, too, the planned task of paying back VAT at 1.3 billion dollars will be done. I can say that the state of affairs for today has already been compensated from the budget of 500 million dollars. Data for September. Compared to the previous year, eight months of VAT compensation from the budget amounted to 7.3 billion dollars. This is monthly data. The growing sum of 7.3 Last year in these seven to eight months, $6.7 billion of VAT was reimbursed from the State Budget. The second problem that is often discussed is that so-called budget overpayments seem to be part of budget execution. In this connection, I would like to introduce you to the material shown in the picture: 101 and 102. You have to pay attention to the specifics of paying taxes. The value added tax is paid once a month and the actual budget income is paid daily. For example, yesterday we received 136 million VAT dollars only through the State Tax Administration. And by the time it's legally paid, it's considered overpayment. When 1 number, for example, reaches the legal deadline for paying the tax, this overpayment is subtracted from the balance sheet. In this regard, please read the overpayment information. They grow until the moment of legal fact, after that moment they go straight down. So basically, VAT overpayments remain constant at 300 million dollars. When overpayments are assessed, they are forgotten to withdraw, for example, amounts declared for future periods and amounts that do not give rise to the VAT return budget. The same is true of income tax. So let's take a look at this graph. As of August 19, the peak payment was 6.2 billion dollars. August 19 is the last period of payment of income tax on the basis of the second quarter. After this period in the accounting records, this overpayment disappears because the tax payer's income tax. pay every day. In September, we did not get 400 million income taxes, although the legal income tax should be paid to the November budget. And the last. How can the budget be estimated or projected by the end of the year? We've tried on the basis of the trends that have been, over the course of eight months, to assess the possible implementation of the budget throughout the year. And it's presented to you by this kind of material. We estimate that the State budget will be implemented in the year by 104.6 billion dollars at the planned rate of 106.7. In addition, the income of the State Budget General Fund will be overrun by 2.5 billion dollars. It's possible under a special fund. And we would like to highlight immediately which article. By clearing, by mutual calculation, at undervalued deposits. So the process that's going on right now is more complicated than expected. And so technically, the total amount of this clearing will not be realized. But that doesn't reflect. Since this is a special fund, and funding from this fund takes place within the budget, this does not affect the ability to implement all the social programmes that are budgeted and not just social programs. By the way, a few months ago, the Ministry of Finance has been operating in full funding of the government budget. And we moved a lot of expenses from the end of the year to the middle of the year. Risks that may arise by the end of the year. There are risks by the end of the year. What these risks are. Unfortunately, the amount of expenditure on the Pension Fund will be more than 2 billion dollars. This item has to be added to the list of items that will be included in the budget. This sum overlaps with that excess of revenue that we're going to get. So without changing the budget balance, without increasing the budget deficit, we're able to provide a need for the pension fund to pay off the pension in a timely manner. To the risks that arise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u45	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u46	part-time funding from privatization. You know that the budget provides for the full financing of the deficit at the expense of privatization. To date, the government budget has reached 730 million. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for from privatization. And the need is 6.9 billion. In this connection, the Ministry of Finance seems to have heard such information, placed bonds, and tried to place Eurobonds in order to guarantee the full amount of the expenditure provided for in the State Budget Act. It's a foregone conclusion. Because on October 21st, funds are expected to come from the privatisation of the Chrysobristals. But we are obliged to fear and to ensure that our expenses are fully met. Risks include the availability of late debt for VAT, 2.6 billion, which has decreased by 700 million compared to the previous month. We estimate that we are able to cover this long-term debt on account of the overstatement of the revenue plan that we can afford under VAT. Today, we have 1.7 billion more VAT than anticipated in the schedule. The situation of a political nature must also be taken into account. And unfortunately, we've experienced these certain trends at the beginning of the month, the truth is that things are improving right now, and in September the budget is being implemented according to the schedule. But the lack of government and instability, for example, have an adverse effect on our position as regards the placing of bonds on euro coins. And we need to get out of this situation faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u47	All right, Victor Mikhailovich? Thank you. Let's sign up for a seven-minute question. Please, Sergey Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u48	Be kind, Cibenko, give me your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u49	Peter Zibank's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u50	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Mr. Minister! You were just talking about the deficit in the Pension Fund budget. I inquired about the material of the recent audit of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, it's called a slightly different amount, which is about 12 billion a year. Moreover, there is a expectation that it may grow by the end of the year. So I want you to assure me not so much as the pensioners of Ukraine, that by the end of the year, there will be no non-retirement payments, because this information is rather disturbing, and it is also related to the implementation of the State Budget of Ukraine. So once again, I ask you to clarify this situation and combine it with the data provided by the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u51	I don't know where that came from, because the Pension Fund and I consulted. By the end of the year, the pension fund’s problem was about 2 billion dollars. The other one. What is happening to the budget now, if there are no political and, for example, legislative surprises, we are able to provide full funding for the need for pensions. I would like to inform you that no month has been delayed by the government's funding of any social benefits, including pensions. You know, in the second quarter, we had a huge workload because we paid not only the pensions that we had to pay since April, but also the difference in pensions that took place in the first quarter. For example, I would like to inform you that, unfortunately, it has been heard in many of your speeches and questions that the first line of payments under article 57 of the Education Act will be funded in the near future. Finally, after the agreement that we were obliged by law in the budget committee to reconcile, the decision came out, the division between the areas is now being made, and by the end of the week we will be financing the first half of the funds in all areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u52	Sophia Kirichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u53	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, “Regions of Ukraine”, Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna. You know, your performance looks like a fairy tale, and I listened to it as a fairy tale. I don't think you all know because, starting on 15 November, there's no wage fund in many regions for teachers, doctors, no pension. But that's not what I'm talking about. You were talking about good budget income. 46 budget lines, 400 million What did we give the regions today? Up to 38 million Grieve. How much is that? That's eight percent of everything. Today, many were cut off from the heat. People made themselves gas, two and a half thousand gave up, and what did they end up doing? Will they be able to run the gas? Nope. There's no money. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and the general budget And I called and asked your staff. They said 148 thousand. A bracelet on that account. There's no money. And don't, I think, lie to people today from this rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u54	Thank you. You know, since I was a kid, my mother raised me so I don't know what the word "deception" is. First of all, you remember a good story with a so-called gas supplement. It wasn't an initiative of the government, but it was a product, a compromise that was found here. Second, there were two figures here today: 13 million. And 148 grand. I'm informing you that today's cost has come from this supplement of 33 million dollars and will not come to 420. But here you are faced with a man who will never break the law. The point is that this is a special state budget fund, and according to Ukrainian budgetary legislation, financing of expenditure under a special fund can only go within the limits of revenue. I'm also informing you that we've completely counted this amount to the local budgets. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that out of the total amount of capital subsidies of 400 million dollars today, 203 million dollars have been funded. Where are the funding problems? The Ministry of Finance is now able to fully finance these capital investments. The problem is that either the objects are not agreed upon or the tenders are not carried out. And by the way, until now we can't fully fund historical monuments, because only six areas have agreed on lists of objects and so on, although I want to assure you again, we are technically capable today of giving 100 million dollars to the regions, as provided for by the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u55	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u56	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I think you will agree that all the social guarantees and benefits provided by law must certainly be met. But at the same time, new additional benefits and social guarantees are being introduced all the time. So could you say the number, the number, how much money is needed to provide for all legal benefits and guarantees in the following year, and what about this situation? And the second is the undervalued savings. I am convinced, for example, that undervalued savings are linked to debt because when people put money in Savings, they did not put any conditions on the state, they still lose interest, and so on. I mean, I'm convinced that when people took living money, they should return living money. What about this theme this year? How's the next one?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u57	Well, as for the decision to compensate for the deposits, it was a political decision, not an economic decision. I think everyone understands his nature. It has pluses and minuses, and it can't be treated clearly, and in society it hasn't received a definite response. Secondly, I think for many of you it's not a secret that we have legislation by. cannot be performed, including the benefits. I can give you some figures that apply to some of the benefits. I think we should soon pass the law on free travel to all Ukrainian citizens. It would probably be easier than dealing with things that often happen to us. Now, I can give you a figure that 19 million citizens have the right to pay-per-view, and if you count it only on existing tariffs, you need 10 billion dollars. But our tariffs are low. And if you take the full amount of aid, no budget in the world can withstand that amount of aid. Unfortunately, Ukraine is afraid that the benefits are not related to people’s income, and they are granted social status regardless of how people move. And the problem is, unfortunately, it's getting worse. And you heard yesterday in the Prime Minister’s report, and unfortunately, we have alarming trends, especially in the countryside, when job motivations are lost, when employment levels are combined with levels of help. And here we need to understand this situation and take steps. They're clearly not easy things, but they're going to have to be understood and done.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u58	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, please sit down. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Konovaluk Valéri Ilchi, 5 minutes. Yavorowski's microphone while Konovaluk comes. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u59	Please, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, let's just think about this: we're discussing budget implementation -- the most important thing in the country is where the state lives. Well, don't be offended, but, you know, take 10 minutes! We asked three questions. They're so painful. Well, why are we like that? Well, we're just making fun of some very serious subject. It's a government wallet. I wanted to ask Pinzenik, there are 11 million in the budget for the bookkeeping. Not a penny to this day, let's say it didn't work out. This is a question that should be taken into consideration by our own. Adam Ivanovich, come on, let's not make such mistakes, just like that. Well, it's a very serious question. We read the law there, we know. As a result, it can be quickly accepted. We're talking about this crisis situation, the budget. So let's at least take a minute 30 so that the different factions can ask the question, maybe the government should just point out what they didn't pay attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u60	On these issues, we set aside two and a half hours, about three hours. So let's talk. There'll be a chance. Please, Valérie Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honorable Anatolia Kirilovich, distinguished national deputies. You know, today I purposely reviewed the transcript of the session from March 25th this year, when we adopted this, in fact, new budget. And what actually occurred in this room is that we're going to destroy economic growth with this budget, we're going to make it impossible for the state to function, we're going to increase citizens' income, when actually inflation is going to be about 20% by the end of the year, and everything else. That is, we warned back in March that such a situation would occur and would arise. An objective assessment of the causes, nature and extent of the increase in economic and social problems in Ukraine and the persistence of its deepening shows that in the economy throughout this year, we are seeing a lack of effective fiscal policies. Inflation processes are out of control, and by the end of the year, as I said, inflation could be more than 20%. So 1 out of 5 bracelets, so that you and I can understand, is going to be inflationary in the budget. Count it and you'll see how much of it we have. To the money, to the income of the budget. The government’s 2005 social budget, which is not backed by actual GDP growth and other macroeconomic indicators, has led to a decline in real income. The Government of Ukraine, along with the National Bank of Ukraine, was unable to develop and implement a set of measures to change economic stagnation trends, reduce living standards and increase social tensions in the country, protect domestic production. Overcoming the pace of rising social benefits over the pace of economic growth lays the groundwork for the government to be unable to meet its social obligations in full by the end of the year. This neighborhood may have problems with pay and wages, pensions, and more debt. In the economy, money was not provided. The National Bank of Ukraine changed the forecast of monetary growth by the end of 2005 from 28 per cent to 40-45, a cash base from 26 per cent to 38-43 per cent. This indirectly confirms that the National Bank's decision on the issue of 20 billion unsecured sums for declared social benefits. I want to remind, honourable colleagues, that really on the income side there are some advantages and achievements on the part of the government. At the same time, however, it was not received during the reporting period for the congregation’s special use of water resources. With regard to the annual refinement of the plan, there is considerable confusion in the congregation over the special use of import duties, the removal of parts of the revenue of state enterprises, and the project’s. Let's figure out how much under-received income has been budgeted. On September 1, the tax debt to the budget was already 9.5 billion dollars. Overpaid taxes and congregations amount to 3.8 billion dollars. Budget debt for outstanding VAT amounts 4.5 billion against 3.5 billion last year. Of these, the deadlines for compensation amount to 2.6 billion dollars. The privatization of government property resulted in a total of 700 million dollars or 10 percent of the annual precise plan. During the same period of time, we remember more than eight billion dollars. Government borrowings were actually made in nine billion dollars, but that is one and a half percent of the year’s refined plan. The government was required to inform the Committee on Budget Affairs today, although the general fund has already included 137 million dollars of the more well - approved annual plan. I would also like to point out that there is a lack of financial resources to ensure a higher level of wages and social pay. According to the committee that we provided during the budget review, full-cost security, primarily for work, with a significant increase in minimum wage and other social guarantees, and the proper functioning of the budget at the local level, there were not enough 2 billion dollars. This forced the local councils, when the corresponding budgets were approved, to pay a salary of almost 1 billion dollars in comparison with the Ministry of Finance. This makes it impossible to actually perform the functions of local authorities to solve other problems. I also want to add that a significant increase and increase compared to last year's volume of the single treasury account of short-term loans. He's making a mojo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u62	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u63	Thank you. This is not done and the order of recalculation, the distribution of subsidies is not approved in a timely manner. You know, only 28 percent of our subsidies for regional development came. Subsidies of local construction and recalculation budgets of 15 million are also 11 percent of gas pipeline subsidies. Only 7 percent of the budget is done and so on. So not only do we have problems with budget implementation, but I think that today we need to thoroughly review the final indicators in order to make adjustments and still ensure that the budget is implemented by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u64	Thank you. The word has the Head of the Accountant's salary Simonenko Valentin Kostinović. Please, 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected members of the Government! At the beginning of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 5 September, the People's Deputies, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, received the opinion of a colleague from the Court of Auditors on the implementation of Ukraine's State budget for the first half of 2005. Within the limits that I have just learned from 7 minutes, and 15 minutes were planned, the time for serious cases is not visible, and I will focus on the main trends and problems in the implementation of the State budget. First. The results of economic activities. I recall that, at the pace of economic growth, 2000-2004, Ukraine has joined a group of leading countries in the world. Today, we have to note that in 2005 the growth rate of gross domestic product was 3.6 times lower in industrial production than in January/July last year. Accordingly, these critical macroeconomic macroeconomic indicators are less than projected for the current year, and the momentum shows that by the end of the year, growth slows down. During the first half of the year, the rate of growth in capital investment declined almost four times, with the share of the State budget as a source of funding declining four times, in January, July, in external economic activities by the Government and not without your assistance, the distinguished people's deputies, the increase in commodity imports significantly contributed to the projected and growth in exports of goods. As a result, the positive external trade surplus in goods decreased by more than 21 times on 1 August, less than last year's figures. We went to the 2000 level. I'm missing. Second. Income from the State budget. During the 7 months of this year, 54.8 billion gross incomes or 51.6 per cent of approved annual figures were added to the public budget. Compared to the relevant period of the past year, the income portion of the State budget has increased by 19 billion, that is, we are seeing the national phenomenon once again. You remember the last two years that everyone has been concerned about the underdevelopment of budgetary revenues from economic development. The process has now changed dramatically at the slow pace of economic growth, and incomes are rising dramatically. According to an analysis of the phenomenon this year, it was all trivial. As at 1 August 2005, according to the State Tax Administration, there were 8.3 billion grivens of excessively paid taxes, fees and compulsory payments. At the same time as at the beginning of the year, this figure was 2.9 billion bracelets. And you remember that both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy from all the rostrums said it was a hidden figure, a hidden budget deficit and a hole in the budget. But over the past seven months, this hole of 2.9 billion has turned into 5.4 billion bracelets. In addition, the State budget is not reimbursed to payers of 3.4 billion sums of outstanding value added tax debts. I recall that, as at 1 January 2005, the budget outstanding for VAT payers amounted to 3.5 billion grivens. And I stress that the outstanding debt has been virtually eliminated. Over the course of 7 months this year, the amount of unreimbursed amounts has increased to over 6.2 billion, including, as I have already said, 3.4 billion is overdue. Thus, the reallocation of budget income has been achieved, primarily by factors related to economic performance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill does not contradict the statistics on the re-implementation of the plan, as some members of the Government claim, we draw attention to the economic nature of the phenomenon and talk about the inability and reluctance of Minfin to work with the Tax Administration. At the same time, it is only during the first half of this year that the tax authorities have written off 4.7 billion dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Tax debt, which is more than 600 million dollars. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union Exceeds write-offs during the entire 2004 period. There is no transparency on this issue. There's no mechanism. There's no writing either. The law treats differently, and this law may be interpreted. And the list, with whom they've written off their debt, is a big secret, even for the account room. There's a problem. However, it has not yet been noticed and debts continue to be repaid. Third. Expenditure of the State budget. The total expenditure of the State budget amounted to 52.8 billion for 7 months this year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. or only 46.2 per cent of the annual plan. The inability of the main budget managers to self-employment has been added to the traditional budget policy deficits. As a result, some 700 million allocated by the State Treasury remained unallocated as at 1 August of this year. Thus, budget managers did not receive the budget in a timely manner and did not transfer the expenditure. In the context of the overexpenditure of the general government budget, expenditure for 7 months has not been met by 3.4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. Virtually every third budget programme did not receive funds for its implementation. Ministry of Fuel and Energy – 817 million, Ministry of Agriculture Policy – 257,3 million, Ministry of Education and Science – 302 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u66	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u67	Fourth. People's well-being. Then thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u68	Finish it, I say. Wait a minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u69	I need two more minutes, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u70	Yeah, well, thanks. Dear colleagues, you have received the report of the Court of Auditors. I think everyone knows the alphabet. And let's read it. Because you're asking him to report now. And then you'll scream why you don't have time to speak. And we can't open a session today, because we have a 15-hour parliamentary hearing. So at 2.30, we have to clear the hall, because there's going to be a lot of people invited here, so understand. I can give, but then I'll give you the benefit of the doubt. Please. Yeah, we're done with that. Once again, I stress that all questions will be discussed together because they are interconnected. Information is being received from the head of the National Bank, the deputy head of the National Bank on the implementation of monetary policy in 2005 and the basic principles of monetary policy for 2006. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, given the time constraints and considering that you have all previously received drafts of the basic principles of monetary policy for 2006, today I will stop at the key points of the state and prospects of Ukraine's monetary and credit market. What's happening in this year's economy is the National Bank's vision of the economic processes of the state. In 2005, economic dynamics cooled down and inflationary risks increased. So in January and August the rate of real GDP growth dropped to 2.8 percent, the volume of industrial production during this period increased by only 3.5 percent. The slowing economic growth is due to a substantial decline in investment revenues in the capital-intensive sectors of the economy of declining public investment, as well as a sustained reduction in external demand for basic goods of Ukrainian exports. We are most concerned that a significant decline in economic development has been accompanied by relatively high inflation rates. One of the main drivers of price increases was the significant rise in social standards, the increase in social budget orientation, and the result of cash out of the bank increased by 11.5 billion or 27 percent by 8 months. Unfortunately, the increase in consumer demand has not been reinforced by the corresponding increase in market supply, and from where do we get additional pressure from the consumer market? The situation was compounded by the fact that there were virtually no banking instruments in Ukraine, except for the mechanisms for active financial traffic. The monetary base increased by 27.4 percent in 8 months, and the monetary base increased by 31 percent. C and levels are the most appropriate modern economic processes and this is confirmed, firstly, by the need to restore the volume of monetary aggregates after their substantial reduction at the end of last year. And secondly, by lowering the rate of money spinning, that is, the economy has absorbed the funds that have been released. In total, it's monetary???the developer had a limited impact on the development of investment processes and due to the fact that the National Bank has repeatedly increased requirements for the formation of mandatory reserves banks, there has been a higher rate of accountancy, there has been constant and large-scale mobilization operations. Meanwhile, in 2005, the outcome of the decision-making process. there are significant risks of inflation getting out beyond a certain amount. The expected increase in monetary aggregates in 2005 was between 38 and 43 percent of the monetary base and 40 and 45 percent of the monetary base. It is estimated that the National Bank will not provoke additional pressure on prices. On the contrary, this will contribute to the normal functioning of the economy, to the expansion of production, and, on the other hand, to the balancing of demand and supply in commodity markets. Now I'm going to go to the second block of my speech -- this is about the direction of monetary policy in 2006. The main objective of monetary policy in 2006 is to ensure the stability of the monetary unit as a monetary precondition for balanced socio-economic development. In order to achieve this goal, the National Bank will ensure that money supply growth is driven in line with real GDP growth and an increase in the level of economic monetaryization. The daily task of keeping inflation in one numerical measure is not decommissioned, as it depends on laying foundations to ensure that the national currency is stable on a long-term basis. However, it should be borne in mind that a successful response to inflation requires appropriate anti-inflationary action by the government, not just monetary steps by the National Bank. Because many problems that need immediate solutions are beyond the direct competence of the National Bank. This includes reforms in the pricing of natural monopolies, as well as improving market principles, regulating prices in individual commodity markets. The quality of the 2006 budget that we are looking at today will be particularly important for ensuring the stability of the national currency and halting inflation. Given the large number of risks, monetary and credit policies will be moderately tough in 2006. According to Nitzbank's estimate, maintaining single-digit inflation will contribute to monetary dynamics, which increase the monetary base by 22 to 27 percent and increase the monetary value by 27032 percent. At the same time, the estimate of demand for money in 2006 was based on government projections of macro-indicators, which, inter alia, predict a 7 per cent increase in real GDP, inflation to 8.7 and the current balance of payments to $2.2 billion. The main channel for money supply in 2006, as in previous years, will be foreign exchange intervention. However, the scope of these interventions will be much smaller, as in 2005 the National Bank plans to intervene by approximately 3.3 billion. United States dollars. Natzbank can do it if you need it. other channels of expansion of the money supply. We're also predicting a continuation of the trend towards a pre-existing increase in national currency deposits, with an increase in the total volume of deposits expected to be 30-35 per cent, and the total volume of bank deposits estimated by Nazbank will increase by 31-36 per cent. It's about monetary policy. Considering that Ukraine's main strategic objective of economic and social development is membership in the European Union and the need for Ukraine's entry into WTO trade, Ukraine's financial integration into international capital markets, the National Bank continues to liberalise the currency market. Nazbank is planning to reduce its market share and, at the same time, we will use measures to ensure exchange stability and to prevent sharp fluctuations. The course is bracelets. And here I want to do a little trailer. The stability course is not meant by the absolute invariability of the courses, but rather by the dynamics that vary within certain limits, it excludes sharp changes and does not disrupt formed orientations for the future. This understanding of stability allows the central bank, when implementing its policy, to act as an important factor in the positive impact on inflation, overall financial stability and external price competitiveness of the Ukrainian economy. So the average annual value of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar is going to be between 5 and 5.20 dollars per U.S. dollar, so it's allowed to extend the range of fluctuations plus-minus four percent. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this speech, I would like to remind you once again that the basic principles of monetary policy for 2006 were approved by a decision of the National Bank on 9 September 2005, but taking into account the current political situation associated with the undetermined composition of the government, as well as the possible review of the 2005 figures, as well as after the discussion and the 2006 State Budget, the likelihood that this document, i.e. the basic principles, could be reviewed in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u72	Thank you, Anatoly Vasilovich. Let's sign up for the questions. Yes, please, five minutes, Gmira. After him, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u73	Please, the word of Alexandria.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u74	Alexander Alla's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u75	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Anatoly Vasilyevich, I really enjoyed your report, which was handed out, and I have read it carefully, and I particularly fully agree with the assessments you are making in the letter to Lithuania. It's the right thing to do. But beyond that, you have strange allegations in your file. On page 5, you're saying that you're expected to keep the trend to reduce the positive balance of trade and so on. And then you say, an important factor in the growth of the balance is that the structural reconstruction of the economy is going to be the growth of foreign investment. You know what this is about. Communists are always proposing to strengthen state regulation. We're running low on capital investments, that's what we're talking about here in this room. And we all hope foreign capital will come. But foreign capital will be the profit that will come from here. We'll only get wages. We're really a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u76	In a word, it was a wish. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, the city of Zaporozhye, is a political party of the “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Anatoly Vasilovich! You may be aware of the terrible plight and irreparable damage caused to the basic sectors of the national economy by the adventurous revision of the bracelet. Please tell me, will the National Bank of Ukraine continue to listen to the real sector of the economy, or will actions be designed to satisfy any macroeconomic preferences? That's the first question. And the second. Why is it so difficult to develop one’s own business today, such as in the countryside? Why is it impossible to borrow credit from farmers? Why can’t it be long - term, why can’t it be cheap? That's why my second question sounds like this. Will the National Bank work for the real economy, or will the banking system work on itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. About the re-evaluation of the course. Indeed, in society it recognized the ambiguity of meaning. But let's face it, and let's say that re-evaluation of the course is not a major factor in the impact on exports. If we approach your statement, let us go back to history. In 1998, devaluation by 80.5 percent, exports of goods and services decreased by 13 percent; in 1999, the devaluation of bracelets by 52 percent, exports decreased by 7.3 percent. Last year, the re-evaluation of 0.49, and exports increased by 37.3. Therefore, the claim that the reassessment of the course has done much harm to me is unacceptable. This is the first time. It's different. Let's look at the structure of our deposits. If we have 112 billion. Deposits, of which only 40 in foreign currency are equivalent and 73 billion It's in the national currency. Is that how people win or not? And if you take the wage fund as a whole, the pension fund, legal deposits, natural persons, bank charges, that's about 400 billion dollars. Even if we've reduced inflation by one percent, society as a whole has won about 3-4 billion. That's right. And let's look at the part of the import structure. We're saying that re-evaluation has led to an increase in the rate of increase in imports. If we take the import structure, we import 45 percent -- it's energy and 26.8 percent -- it's machinery and equipment. Food and industry are only 13 percent. So I think it also has a positive effect, and I'm not talking about public debt service anymore, that during this period of April, when we fought, 32 billion were repaid. It's the equivalent. That's about seven billion or six and a half foreign currency loans. And the cost of this repayment was also lower. So it certainly has an impact on export volume and economic development, but it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u79	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u80	Dear Anatoly Vasilyevich, I will allow you, with all due respect, as a specialist, not to agree that the review of the dollar has in no way affected everything else. [[I'm here in front of you.]] Influenced. Because the actual exporters who delivered their products to Russia today are sitting and thanking everyone -- you, us, all those who helped them today find additional markets, coffee shops, minus Russia. But that's the subject. You tell me, as a specialist, we're talking about how well and wonderfully we are, then you can explain, please, to me, to our listeners, to my colleagues, why the dollar has gone up and the prices have gone up, so hard to explain this inflation, well, I'd say so, from the point of strengthening the economy. Please give your assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u81	Thank you. Well, as I said in my speech, one monetary step cannot keep inflation from happening. And with nominal population growth by 44 percent, and the real increase by 26.2, which is not backed by economic growth and commodity supply, this is the result of this policy, that these over-expenditures -- they were a huge burden on the consumer market, and under this product, there were not enough goods under this money. That's why prices went up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u82	Thank you, Anatoly Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. We heard other information. We are now moving on to the introduction of the draft Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. I remind you of the regulations: the minister's report is 15 minutes, seven minutes, and the committee's report is 10 and five. And then let's see how long we have until 14 hours to discuss all the issues. Please, Victor Mikhailovich, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given in relation to the budget project next year. First of all, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, compared to the figures that were provided in the consideration of the draft budget resolution, the Ministry of Economics clarified the forecast that was budgeted, and we had to recalculate the budget. Note the key indicators, since they have a direct bearing on the government budget's income calculation. The nominal GDP, which is 512 and a half billion dollars, was reduced, the first one was 525. Real GDP has been reduced to seven percent instead of nine and a half percent. And the inflation rate is specified: 8.7 percent instead of 9.3. Nearly five billion have been reduced by a payroll fund that required a full correction of the local budgets and relations of the State Budget with the local budgets. The income of Ukraine’s budget for the following year is expected, at a level of 149 and a half billion dollars. That's 14% or 17.9 billion dollars more last year. Including the general fund's income increases from 101.6 billion to 121 billion. 19% or 19.4 billion. By the way, all our budget calculations were based on the key income indicator of the general fund of the budget. So once again, we're not going to be presenting any more income-related data this year, but we want to pay attention to the next situation that this year is expected to see a lower income growth relative to last year, because what was done this year by eliminating shadow schemes, the reserves are largely exhausted. And that increase in GDP revenue that we have today plus 5% is not possible in the next year. The attempt to include it in the revenue of the budget will only mean that a large part of the expenditure of the State budget will not be provided with real financial resources. So please look at table seven. If last year's total fund this year, the total fund of the consolidated budget increased by 60%, the planned figure next year was 19%, including the general budget fund of the State Budget 73%, this year and 17% next year. What logic did we use in our calculations for budget changes? It's a very simple logic, understood by any family. We have some kind of base resource, some part of the revenue that we're going to get this year. We're going to figure out what additional revenue we're going to get next year, and based on this logic, the news of the increase in resources that we're going to get next year should be allocated according to certain political priorities, those that reflect both the intentions and the government, and the Supreme Council on economic policy. Based on this logic, the additional costs of the following year that can be used for the distribution of society, and we stress that this is about a budget, because the division between government and local budgets is a largely technical issue. The additional budget resource next year is estimated at 21.3 billion dollars. What does it consist of? First. This is an increase in income of 19.4 billion dollars. And the second key article is changing the budget deficit. This year's budget deficit is 6.9 billion dollars per fund. The budget resolution allows for a budget deficit of two percent of GDP or 10 billion dollars. Approximately this size of the deficit is in the budget: 8.4 for the general fund and 1.5 billion for the special fund. But the increase from 6.9 to 8.4 in the general fund deficit increases the budget spending by 1.4 billion dollars. And some of the other technical adjustments that you see allow us to talk about the sum of 21.3 billion dollars before the distribution of solutions. What are the proposals for this resource? Some things do not need special thought, because they are inevitable, and they are so called transitional. You see the proposals made in the draft budget this year. 21.3 billion is an additional resource this year. The first article, the largest, is 8.6 billion, it's a transitional social cost. What are we talking about? This year, you know, a half-sized pension is being paid to military pensioners. Since the following year, the rate of pension payments has been set at 100 percent for those who have retired earlier. This sum of 2.6 billion dollars is transitional costs. Part two of the transitional costs. From September 1, Ukraine’s minimum wage is 332 bracelets. This standard only works for four months. And the next year, it's going to be 12 months. And it needs so-called transitional expenses. For all the articles, the cost of spending is 8.6 billion dollars next year. The second article is the so - called mandatory social cost index. This is the first time we've gone to a retirement level that's not below the minimum of living. Since inflation is expected next year, there is a minimum pension adjustment, and so many social benefits are linked to a subsistence minimum. In this regard, the need for social spending index costs is 5.6 billion. Two billion is compensation to the Pension Fund, a reduction in the payroll fund. I'll tell you more about the tax component of the draft budget. In previous calculations, there was to be a reduction in the pension fund’s grants by 2.6 billion dollars this year. This is without taking into account the decline in the payroll fund. After the adjustment and many iterations of budgeting and the reduction of payroll payments, the pension fund's compensation will be 2 billion dollars. You see the structure of the other magnifications, and if necessary we are ready to give an explanation. This includes, for example, the additional costs of return, the election of deputies, the indexation of current expenditure, which was not included in the ceilings imposed by the principals and local budgets. Including here, the cost of 500 million is directly projected for local budgets. The increase in other priority expenditure is 1.1 billion and other expenses. We're ready for the decryption dates. And this table was the product of many iterations and many discussions at the level of the President of Ukraine, the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers and individual ministries. What are the basic social goals? What are the main objectives of the budget? What are we trying to implement in the draft law? First of all, social goals. I want to highlight the following points of principle. What was achieved this year is proposed to be maintained next year. This is a minimum pension at the minimum of living. This implies an increase in the minimum pension from 332 dollars to 366 dollars. The minimum wage goes from 332 dollars to 400 dollars. In doing so, this year we have reached the minimum wage at the minimum pension rate since September, starting to correct the imbalance in these key social benefits, next year the minimum pension rate should exceed by 9 percent at the end of the year. The draft budget provides the necessary funds for the payment of military pensions to those who previously retired in full, 100 percent of those who have been recalculated. A second step is foreseen next to today’s year: to raise the wages of an important category of society, such as judges, by 66 percent. A reaction is needed in a situation involving the pensions of the Chernobyl station’s disaster fighters. The draft budget law is designed to raise pensions on an average of two or three times. The disability pension for members of the service and the loss of a breadwinner is also an vulnerable category, and the level of pensions that is currently lower is proposed to be raised by 50 per cent. It is important that those processes that we started this year and next year reduce the dependency of the Pension Fund on budget grants. I'll remind you of the critical situations and the beginning of the year, and this year, because from the State Budget, 18.8 billion dollars are being spent to cover the need for pensions. The following year, the percentage of grants is projected to fall from 21.1% to 17.8%, in other words, despite the fact that the absolute size is increasing by 2 billion, the share of grants or the autonomy of the Pension Fund is increasing. And this year, there is some improvement in the ratio of pension to salary. She did. Let me show you the 59th picture. We started to correct this situation this year with budget changes. We've had a more catastrophic situation than it looks on the chart right now. You see, over the last five years, the red line is pension dynamics, blue is wage dynamics. This year the situation has improved somewhat. Today's break-up of the average pension and salary increase is 38 percent, the pre-retirement of the pension increase, next year we're going to cut this gap. And if you see the next graph, we have today the average wage/average ratio of 51%, vice versa. Do you understand what the size of the insurance bill should be to secure the payment of pensions? The following year, the budget project set this ratio of 46 percent, in other words, the situation that we experienced in 2004 in 2005 will be felt by Ukraine for several more years. For several years, Ukraine will not be able to transfer the Pension Fund to an opportunity without a grant. When the budget was being developed, perhaps for the first time, I had to face up to myself as a finance minister. I'm sorry. Part two of tax purposes. The draft budget envisages a step in reducing the load tax. The total reduction in the load tax is 1 per cent of gross domestic product or in sum is 5.2 billion dollars. Including 2.8 billion dollars on the basis of a reduction in earnings, one and a half percent on the Pension Fund, 0.3 percent on the Employment Fund and 0.2 percent on the Accident Insurance Fund on production. 900 million dollars is a reduction in economic removals due to the cancellation of customs congregations that pay all operators in export and import operations. One-and-a-half billion dollars is the loss of income from the budget, the Pension Fund, in particular, which we compensate for at the expense of the budget. The downsizing of the congregation from one and a half to 0.75 hundred transactions from the purchase of currency. This decision has a direct bearing on the questions you asked the first deputy head of the National Bank, which relates to the revaluation of the bracelet. Because this decision inhibits the process of strengthening the national currency or the process of revaluation of the bracelet. The decision to lower the tax burden has to be made in fairly unique economic conditions. The phenomenon of this decision is that it happens, unfortunately, without a reduction in government spending. Investment guidelines for the budget First, he will talk about what is related to the budget. When I talked about budget revenue, they're actually a little bit larger if the comparison base was the same. The fact is that this year we're refusing to remove part of the funds that went into the road fund from the general state budget fund. This year, 25 percent of the funds were included in the general budget. This allows more resources to build roads, takes a rather serious step in solving the problem with a well - being, creating infrastructure for entrepreneurial activities, including in rural areas plus 2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. The total amount of the road fund will exceed 6 billion next year. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 Development expenditure is increasing next year from the budget to 1.6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for The budget is a tool that allows a mortgage to be set up as a guarantee to a government mortgage. It's not direct budget spending, but it's a budget tool for building housing for Ukrainian citizens. This year, Ukraine is expected to significantly increase its funds from the Bank of Europe, the World Bank. The sum of these costs is 1.9 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure And what we want to stress is that these costs are intended to be used exclusively for investment costs. These are mainly investment projects in energy, and not just energy that will transit through the state budget. You can see a list of other things of an investment character that are related to the budget. In particular, a project is currently under way, which will also provide guarantees to the government, lending to Ukrainian exports. This loan is to be received by the Ukrainian Eximbank for the purpose of lending export companies to the external markets of Ukrainian products.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u85	There are some things in the draft budget that relate to the investment climate and relate to the allocation of land for new construction, the agreement on construction sites, the drastic simplification of conciliation procedures, and, in fact, the cancellation of land. Including the cancellation of various kinds of taxes in budgetary and non-budgetary funds. The draft budget is intended to include land privatization under privatized objects in the resource. In Ukraine 90,000 privatized objects and all these amounts, one and a half billion dollars, are projected to be directed exclusively to investment projects. I would like to emphasize, in view of the time limit, a few more things. Is there any possibility of any additional resource there is. And we're adding additional changes to tax laws along with the draft budget, they're not the norm of this law, it's going to be a separate law, it's going to be about insurance companies, banks and excises, and if the Supreme Council accepts these changes, we're going to add them to the budget balance, we're not going to include them right now, we can include the cost of essentially 400 to 500 million dollars. In addition, our estimates of privatisation revenues, and privatization should be a 100% source of 8.4 billion dollars in deficit coverage, are we supposed to channel exclusively?? For what?? It's an investment character. They're not included in the budget balance, they're outside the budget balance and directing them exclusively investment. And the last. We want to point out that we have prepared a draft budget under deficit 2 percent of gross domestic product is an acceptable budget deficit. This budget provides for a pre-eminent increase in expenditure on events compared to consumption costs. Development expenditure is increasing from $21.8 billion to 25.7 or almost 18 percent. Spending 92.5 increases to 101.4 or 9.6 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at today's presentation of the draft budget as the beginning of work on it. Today we have had discussions with some political forces. The work on the Budget Committee has now begun. We understand that this is a product of compromise and finding the right economic and political solutions, and we are ready to go along with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u86	Thank you. Let's sign up for questions. Seven minutes. Please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, here we are talking about the 2006 budget, and we have a lot of problems in the 2005 budget, but I'm wondering how the 2006 budget will somehow change relative to the local budgets. You realize that in the middle of 2005, you made changes in the middle of the year, about the only company registration tax that took 47 percent into the State Budget, just leaving the local budget 43 percent. There's nothing to underfund it. And today the local budget allows you to finance only the salary of a teacher and a doctor, there is no money. What changed this year? And I wanted to ask you one more question. You see, when President Yushchenko arrived literally the next day on January 12, 2005, 233 he signed a law amending certain legislative acts to strengthen the legal protection of entrepreneurs, which completely prohibits doing so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u88	Thank you. I did not touch on the situation in my previous speech, which consists of local budgets. And we have 104 pictures to show. We have an estimate of the income of the local budgets. Local budgets will be overrun by eight months by 3.3 billion. Including the first basket of 370 million, the second basket of 625 million, and the special fund of 2.3 billion dollars. What is more, the trends that now include local budgets give us reason to believe that they will have a cost structure at the level of last year. Because, for example, they've spent eight months of their planned income. For example, rental fees for property complexes are nearly double the annual rate of 8 months. Next. The proceeds of the sale of property, the plan of 500 million, already 636, and these are development costs. Income from land sales is 431 plans per year, in eight months 486. And by the way, the estimates of the Ministry of Finance are all implemented in eight months, except for the Lviv region, which did 99.1 percent. There are problems, 94 budgets of those we have a relationship, 690 budgets of everything, have a budget failure. Of these, 42 budgets have a 97 to 100 percent problem. In other words, there are a few dozen budgets that we're studying and we have special tools in relation to them. I would like to point out that, in addition to the decision that was now taken, yesterday it came out in connection with the tariff on wages allocated to the State budget of 1.4 billion dollars. Of these, 1 billion. Two hundred million. The money goes to the local budgets. We're going to have four months' worth of subsidies, and we're going to be counting all the local budgets. In addition, Article 57 of the Education Act provides local budgets with an additional resource of about 100 million per cent. That's right. And the last. Not this government, but Parliament has long made the right decision on the formula. We approach all budgets in the same way. There's the amount of money and you notice that I started talking about the total revenue of the budget. There's an appropriate indicator by number, or contingent, for example, about the schoolboy or the medical community, and we're doing the distribution of funds. And unfortunately, there is still a problem in individual local budgets. What is it? Fellow dignitaries, for example, at the expense of the Head of the Court of Auditors, mentioned that some expenses were not funded. I'd like to make a point. One hundred percent of the funded costs, the supervisors didn't use them, they're in the accounts. Yes, by the way, the local budget accounts for today are 4 billion. That's right. And outside the budget, in general outside the budget, there's an amount of 1 billion. That's right. We often show when individual budgets place deposits. For example, Montenegro's budget is 15 million dollars. The money lies on the deposit, earns money, and on the other hand borrows funds from the local budget. I apologize for the long comment, because the question is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u89	Please, Ludmila Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u90	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, this year's budget, you have completely, practically destroyed Ukrainian businesses. What do you propose next year's budget? By 9 per cent, the volume of production increased and the budget income increased by 10 per cent. How can such projections be trusted and what will happen to enterprises from such policies. I still want to tell you how true it sounds from your mouth, how true it is. You talked about 113 budget lines of land sales under facilities that have already been privatized. Yes, it's really a necessary article. But you were talking about that money going to investment projects. The budget clearly says where they're going. To equip ambulances, ambulances, aircraft purchases, metropolises, these are not investment projects, Viktor Mihajlovich. Absolutely not. Earnings, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u91	I wouldn't want to have a discussion about that, because there's no subject. It's always an investment thing to buy airplanes. And the construction of metropolises is also an investment thing. Secondly, let's remember the discussions we had in March of this year. I understand that the reason for this discussion was because, personally, I, as an economist, understand the complexity of this year's budget. I say one more thing: this year's budget has been implemented and will be implemented. More than that. I can inform you that the current number of nine - month budget assignments this year has been completed. At the planned number of 57 million, billions of dollars. Today, the general budget budget accounted for 57.2 billion dollars in treasury and, once again, I would like to point out that in the absence of political and economic surprises, all budget expenditure will be funded as well as the budget revenue generated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report of the Executive Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget of Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Please, 10 minutes and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, unfortunately, the time is so tight. Instead of the 15 minutes requested by the committee, we are given 10 today. I'm going to try to describe this document, which is actually the twin brother of the 2005 budget. There's not much difference. Our task today is not to adopt the law in the first reading. We decide whether he will remain in the Supreme Council or whether we should return him to the Cabinet of Ministers for further work in view of his failure to comply with the Constitution, the Budget Code, other laws of Ukraine. So I'm going to try to build my report this way. I will briefly describe this law on the conformity of the Constitution, the Budget Code and the Budget Resolution, and then, if there is time, I will try to give the basic general characteristics of this legislative act. In accordance with articles 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers filed the bill on time and introduced it on September 15, 2005. A preliminary study of this legislative act indicates that most of its articles correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code, but the individual articles do not conform at all to the rules of the budget code, including article 15 of the draft law, allowing essentially uncontrolled use of public debt-servicing funds, essentially nullifying the marginal size of the State debt. Article 42 of the draft law gives us the right to provide funds to cover temporary cash breaks of a special fund in violation of the law, because it is clearly stipulated by law that the funds at the expense of which are used to finance special ones. Costs coming from the special fund are assigned and cannot be used for any other purpose. Part four of article 47 actually changes the goal of transferring to reduce actual imbalances due to imbalances in the network of budgetary institutions. Articles 82, 112, 113 grant the Cabinet of Ministers the right to amend the State Budget Act without amending the way in which the funds that come into the budget from surplus arms are implemented, from introducing changes in tax legislation and from privatizing state property. Which actually nullifies the meaning of the law itself, and excludes control functions actually from the Supreme Council. In terms of calculating the main directions of budgetary policy. In particular, they were left unaccounted for. There is no clear compliance with part two of the seventh article of the tax system regarding the inability to establish new taxes. In fact, by structure, this law stops normative acts, and it changes these normative acts without making appropriate additions to the basic laws. Everyone knows that the Budget Act is temporary, time-consuming, but only works for one year. Therefore, implementing such procedures of the Budget Act is simply legal nihilism. Of course, the committee cannot agree. And I think the Supreme Council will support us in this regard. There is absolutely no proposal to pay off tax debts. The budget resolution required this procedure. The unforeseeable transfer of social and cultural institutions directly to the knowledge of the ministries and authorities that violate the requirements of the Budget Resolution. We tried to give the government direction this year to increase the demand for local budgets to 45 percent. Sadly, however, in the bill, the government only offers 41.2 — that is, again unfunded delegated powers. By the way, when everyone talks about overcoming local budgets today, they hide that the cost of these budgets has to be far more than the plan even with overstatement. So we've proposed a bill from the committee, and tomorrow it will be considered directly in the Supreme Council to increase the amount of money we refer to local budgets, including 757 million to eliminate the debt problem. With payouts in November and December. I hope that this bill will be supported by the Supreme Council. In addition, the project provides income restrictions on local budgets. Well, that's nonsense, actually. We have never done this before, especially at the cost of land and the congregation for environmental pollution. Not all necessary adjustment coefficients are applied. In fact, local budgets are a huge problem. The government doesn't actually work with local budgets. He's not making any suggestions, he's applying a completely inadequate normative base, he's taking the 2000-2003 indicators as a basis, and we've changed legislation significantly in the meantime. That's why cities and regions where wages are high today are actually. and high per capita income, in fact, remain with nothing. Well, in particular, Zaporozhi region today has one of the highest per capita income levels, and based on the performance of planned incomes, it's practically the last place. That is, the one who earns more is, in fact, left with nothing. The bill absolutely does not define the criteria and directions for adding subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development. The situation in 2005 is repeated. On this day and for this second, the government has not yet passed a decision on allotment of capital expenditure -- about 100 million funds have not been allocated. The committee's decision is taken two months ago, the documents are sent on time, we agree, the government doesn't make the decision. Not much, he's under. Let's say, in opaque schemes, it increases the costs for individual regions, which completely violates the design of laws. And we're going to take this seriously. There are absolutely no proposals for the draft Tax Code and bills on a simplified tax system. Nor do we see today the amount of funds that are used to target local budgets for the execution of state delegated authority. Local budgets are not fully resourced. As we try to carry out constitutional reform, transfer authority to local authorities and leave them completely without such resources. Today we do not have the financial plans for the natural monopolies of national companies for 2006, we do not have a list of public property privatizations. And most importantly, for local budgets, honourable colleagues, a very important issue, the social standards are not approved for. With a definition of their value. So for the next year, the government wants to apply the same system of distribution of funds for local budgets as it was before, not taking into account the cost of drugs, the number of diseases, or the specificity of individual regions. So we don't see any changes and absolutely no suggestions today. There are some features of this bill in comparison with the Ukrainian law for 2006. Clearly, twins sometimes have differences. This is what we're talking about, what differences we're talking about. First. Unlike this year’s budget, it is proposed to reinstate the practice of suspending the annual State Budget Act many social regulations that are not provided with financial resources. It is also necessary to change the size of insurance tariffs to the Pension Fund, to other social funds, by suspending the relevant social insurance legislation. For the first time, the law provides for the implementation of Ukrainian laws on sources of financing for road agriculture. You know, we demanded, on the basis of the Budget Resolution, 100 percent of the cost to target road construction. It's the first time the government's ever done this. Well, it's not possible to work. Because with an additional resource, half should go to pay off the loans received. And we're not going to be able to do that again. In addition, for the first time in law, article 38 has a limit on the granting of State guarantees. And there's also some danger, in the 2006 budget, we don't see any projections as to the cost of natural gas. Is there a change in value, or is it not? Because this will have a serious impact on the cost of the budget. As a result of the discussion under article 39, the Committee on Budget Affairs recommends that this bill in the Supreme Council, in view of the tense time that remains of us, should be accepted for consideration. Taking into account the government's proposal that they're willing to make changes, make changes, because we don't have time to return it, your honor, and there's no one here today. The authorities of the Supreme Council, if the government agrees to work, will be ready to make adjustments accordingly. And the last. I want to remind you that all proposals for law should be submitted to the committee by October 1st this year. The suggestions that come after, we just can't physically deal with them. And the last. Literally another half-second, if you don't have enough, please give me time. What does two indicators show? We have significantly increased the revenue of the State budget, by nearly 70 percent. And there was a drop in GDP. Why did this happen, how could it be? There's only one way to explain it. In fact, there has been an increase in the tax burden on already existing businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u94	Please, how long do you have to finish? Please, just a minute and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u95	As a result, GDP is not growing, and the tax burden is increasing. It's different. There was a substitution of the internal market for imports and, as a result, a fall in own production. And the problem with the re-evaluation course is not the problem of inflation, it's the problem of printing domestic production into the contract to imported goods. That's why the imbalance in the rise, the significant rise in the revenue of the State budget -- actually, the decline in the Ukrainian economy. And we understand that we will do everything we can to ensure that the State Budget Act, in the first place, ensures that the economy and the well-being of the people are growing because of the growth of the economy. Thank you for your attention. I suggest we leave this law here, consider it, and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u96	Thank you, Sophia Pauline. Dear colleagues! We agreed five minutes to ask. There's a question. Please sign up for Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, 5 minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Alexander Masenko, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u97	Ludmila Pavlovno, I've listened to your speech and I support the many positions of those you've expressed, but I'm surprised at the position of the committee that you've been participating in for more than a year. So, they say, some comments are made to the budget project, and then some kind of agreement is reached. Which I don't know. If you'd told me today, I'd be glad. And the committee already agrees that the budget, let's say, over the past few years to be approved. Is it going to happen this time, too, so we all see that the budget is short. But there are some pressures, some political ones, I know, arrangements will be there, and yet the decision will be made, which you will recommend to approve this budget. Or is it going to be your stable position on this issue? Would I like to know?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u98	I can tell you that at the committee meeting, we did not have a hundred percent consensus on budget acceptance, and three members of the committee suggested that it be rejected. But the committee came to such a conclusion that it would still consider the law for the following reasons. First. We don't have any cool deals at all. There's just no one to give it to today. In fact, the Supreme Council could decide to send him to the government. Then, within a week, the government actually excludes all these remarks, inadequacies, and returns them to the Supreme Council. If we do not accept it for the second time, the following shows that the government must resign. But the government's still retired. The document has so far been submitted to the prime minister of Ukraine, so to return it in that form, well, we find it inappropriate. Not enough, and in a week they will not correct all these mistakes. This is possible only through our work together. I hope that we will have the opportunity in the Supreme Council Hall to convince the MPs to amend this law substantially, to adopt it in a way that corresponds to the basic directions of budgetary policy for 2006, and to hand over to the government for implementation already under the control of the Supreme Council. So the proposal was like this: to look at it further.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u99	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Ukrainian political party. Dear Ludmila Pavlovna, I want to remind everyone about the need for further transition and transition of the Ukrainian economy, including the budget for an innovative development model. You remember that in its time, the government came to power by the pragmatic governments of Anatolia Kinaha and Viktor Yanukovitch gave the Ukrainian economy the opportunity to achieve in 2003, 2004 the success of GDP and the growth of the economy that the world has been talking about. Please tell me, what is the position of the profiling committee, on which we place high expectations in terms of supporting the transition of the budget from eating to the development budget, to the investment budget? And the question is specific to my voters in Zaporozhye. Please tell me, what fate is it, sad fate, or happy fate, the construction of bridge crossings on Dniepri and the district of Zaporozhye? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u101	Thank you. The committee will insist that the privatisation funds currently planned by Minfin for debt repayment be earmarked for development, because this will actually strengthen the economy. We'd rather invest money in businesses that would give revenue annually than settle debt once a year, especially since the borrowing rate is extremely low today. The level of budget deficit in Ukraine is lower than the European norm. The European standard is three percent. By the way, Germany has nine percent today, France has seven and a half. So we have a huge supply of strength. But these costs, invested in economic development, will immediately add 30 percent of the additional income to income tax, citizen income tax, value added tax, land tax, and so on. It's a pragmatic approach that we're going to stand up for. Today, Ukraine’s budget is able to handle external debt. And we have no danger or hesitation in doing so. I would like this to be a principle that is supported by the Supreme Council. Otherwise, we will eat what we did not earn, but we have made money in the previous year and donated our funds to us. As far as bridges are concerned. 233 million is offered. That's half of the amount that's needed for two years, it's about the number that's needed. But our proposal will be to exclude the use of State Automobiles' funds and to give them at the expense of the General Fund of the State Budget, because in Ukraine and the automobile administration today, they have to pay almost a billion dollars on different programs to close previous loans. And even an increase in the revenue of the road fund does not bring about a significant change in the road construction situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Ludmila Pavlovno, time is up. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's take an hour to talk. Is there no objection? Otherwise, we can't go on. Let's do this, first the factions, then the committees, and then, if there's still time, and the representatives. and then the representatives of the deputy corps in the people's deputies. We agreed to do so, and this was agreed upon. Put on the board, please, the name of the national MPs who signed up for the performance. Yes, Vladimir Masterskin, faction of the People's Party. Get ready. Let's see. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u103	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Our faction supports the idea of taking a state budget, a draft budget, and thereby improving it. Believe me, if we just put him on the government job for a week, he's not gonna get any better than that. And now, essentially. Once again, we are deceiving ourselves when we plan to privatize 8 billion next year. We see a privatisation plan this year with almost that amount planned, but it's running at 10 percent. I think it's probably another plan of someone who can take it away, sell it again, and throw it back for food. I don't support that idea, and more than that, if we're talking about what we can confuse, confuse our financial investors, when we say that the budget has such a norm, that if we don't implement the privatisation plan, we're going to set a standard to allow the government to enter the foreign exchange market. Here we have to make clear, if we want to go into privatization, let's prepare any object for the privatization moments, the so-called pre-sale preparation. And so big plans, to compare it, I'm telling you that in 2003, the privatization plan was implemented at 1.9 billion dollars. Today, we are putting together a second year of privatization plan for 8 billion dollars. And to the end. If we're talking about our economy being open, let's strive for recognition of the market economy, recognition of other aspects, including the accession to the World Trade Organization, and then, once the capitalisation of our funds is increased, we go to such a powerful level of privatization. Third. You know, when we talk about us entering 2006 as a year of political reform, a year of raising the level of local budgets, unfortunately, we don't see this in the draft budget. Moreover, if we were to reload the local budgets with a level of delegated authority, we would reduce the percentage of local budgets in the budget. I mean, there's a desire to make a distribution somewhere in Kiev. Gentlemen, let's define. If we're talking about administrative reform, let's start with it. Once we increase the funds to the local budget and they fail to cope, we can talk about the administrative reform and then we can start redistributing the areas. First of all, we'll give you the money to carry out delegated powers. And to the end. I think that perhaps the problem is serious because the President of Ukraine also supports the idea of recognition in 2006 of the village. You know, our traditional faction of the People's Party talked about it all the time. And we're going to support the country's serious spending. But let's say in 2005, let's think about what the minister of finance was talking about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u104	Yes. Thank you. Valérie Konovaluk. The faction of the People's Democratic Party "Trudova Ukraine" to prepare the Voisha. Is there a Valery Konovaluk? None. Then Vladimir Vojsz. Please, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] And get ready for Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u105	The distinguished people's deputies, having considered the draft budget submitted by the Government for 2006 by the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, declares that the project is unbalanced and based on unrealistic macroeconomic indicators. [[Joint]] The economic situation in the country has changed dramatically in recent months. The non-professional policy of the new authorities has led to an investment crisis. This has resulted in a sharp slowdown in economic growth. As a result of the 8 months, there has been a decline in construction, transportation and the positive balance of foreign trade has been declining rapidly. It can be argued that Ukraine has not only lost the positions of the European leader at the pace of economic growth that it held back last year, but has actually approached the situation of economic stagnation and perhaps economic stagnation. In the current situation, the calculation of basic budgetary parameters, based on the forecast of real GDP growth for 2006, at the level of seven per cent, is not just a mistake, but a dangerous adventure. A budget deficit of nearly 10 billion is also to be assessed in a negative way. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. or about 2 per cent of GDP. The draft budget provides for more than 8 billion income allocations. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. from privatization, as has been the case with the poor budget gaping practices at the expense of these funds. The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the United States believe that it is appropriate to introduce a moratorium on the privatization of strategic facilities prior to the parliamentary elections and the formation of a new Government. In general, there is every reason to claim that the social dimension of the draft budget is predominantly populist and has no objective economic basis. In doing so, the draft budget contained rules that could well be regarded as anti-social. This is the abolition of travel and housing benefits for budget students, the abolition of housing and utility benefits for disabled persons and veterans of the Great Homeland War. The provisions of article 38 of the draft budget limit the possibility of benefiting teachers, doctors, military personnel and other budget categories. By slightly raising their wages, the Government was taking away their benefits, thereby effectively reducing the already low standard of living of these people. However, substantial costs are provided for the reconstruction of the President's residence, his foreign visits, a significant increase in the funding of the President's secretariat and the force structures. In the view of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the united party, in the current economic situation, it is necessary to ask the question of the transition to a strict economy rather than the fulfillment of the populist promises of Viktor Yushchenko. The budget should be fair. It must be honest to people that, as a result of the free economic policy of the new power, the country has actually experienced a crisis in the socio-economic situation and will not receive any of the promised power because of the banal lack of money. The people of Ukraine must know the truth. Given that the draft budget was unrealistic, the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine required that it be rejected. [[Joint]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u106	Yes, thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk of the Julia Timoshenko Block, prepare Michael Melniczuk for the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u107	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Party of the Fatherland. I want to say right now that there's a lot of words out there that say things like populism, adventure, unrealisticity, honesty and so on -- it's completely out of budget. The budget is, let's say, the financial constitution that both the left and the right and the Protestants and the supporters and those who don't support it. Because of this, there is nowhere to go, numbers and facts speak for themselves. And an increase in living minimum, an increase in wages, and an increase in pensions from 332 to almost 400 is planned next year and pays the second half of the pension to those who retired or retired early. And there are serious intentions not only in the social, but also in the development budget. I just want to say that there's still a reserve in this budget to fix the situation in individual articles. And I think that if this budget goes into the work of the budget committee, we can seriously polish it, correct it, and work on individual articles. I can only make such remarks. That if this year’s GDP growth is nearly 100 billion, it is projected to be smaller next year. So the pace of economic output from the shadow sphere is too low. This will need to be addressed. If we say that we have the opportunity to return from objects that are illegally privatized and privatized to up to 21 billion next year, and only 8 billion are invested, then we also have a large reserve to increase even on this basis of deficit. I want to say that from this figure you can increase the cost of the return of the citizens of savings and invest a lot of money on the quick-to-return objects. In general, I think it is necessary to vote positively for the budget and to transfer it to the work of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u108	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Your word, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u109	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I'd like to address you. Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u110	Victor Mikhailovich! Address to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u111	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! I'd like to address you, you've presented a report here in 2005, and you've gone through the agrarian sector. I don't have a question for you. I have a question for you. Do you really think that financing at the end of the year of an agro-industrial complex, which has more seasonal, is a March-month job and October-day job, can give you a positive picture of what you have planned. For example, what you're going to finance in December 200 million, in November about 180 million on the APC, it doesn't play any role anymore, all the more so that these costs can't be recovered. Today, all arrows are translated into the fact that the Ministry of Agricultural Policy is working poorly. Of the five expenses planned by the program, you have not funded a single penny today. Planting selection is funded by only 22 percent, and farming is funded by only 27 percent. Questions such as land conservation are not set aside for the recovery of children. Let's talk, agro-industrial workers, no cash. And here's the final principle: we're preparing the budget for next year. And so the claim to the Ministry might be that they're doing what you're funding today. I would like to point out that the same error has been made in the 2006 budget. The faction will support, let's say, the first reading is just to allow the MPs and the budget committee to work. But I'd like to say that we're wondering whether there's going to be a single tariff grid, whether there's going to be an increase in the minimum wage, the provision of military pensions, an increase in various types of allowances, a return on savings. After all, people need to be answered. And we socialists are demanding, or necessarily, a law that is adopted on the social protection of children of war so that they can have budget support. Because millions of Ukrainian citizens are counting on it and socialists will demand it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u112	Volodymyr Yavorowski is invited from the Reform and Order factions, to prepare Mikola Porowski from the non-fractional, there are 13 signatures for him to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, my fellow Ukrainian Parliamentarians! We are discussing a very important question, perhaps the most important question of what Ukraine will be like next year, how every Ukrainian will live on this earth. And the first thing I wanted to do was celebrate and thank Penny Ludmila, who's coming out, and I'm already in her time just thanking her for her position as chairman of the committee. Indeed, on behalf of our faction, I support the idea that to return the budget to the government, more government, I don't even know what to call it in exile or not in exile. The only thing I like about them is that they used to be just ministers, and now they're the people who do the duty. It's even better than ministers. For it is already said that they carry out their duties and that they do not know if they are performing. Because I'm really convinced that the budget needs to be left in our hands right now, not to let go of it, and to do everything to make sure that in these povertyes that we have today, somehow we have these patches crossed over, that Ukraine, our people, our nation, can survive next year. I want to touch on the question that, unfortunately, has become so unpopular today in our Ukrainian government, and in yesterday's and yesterday's, and deep down, it's a matter of culture. Culture is said to be the only thing left after everything has been destroyed. I just want to remind you and myself, and I'm sitting here with this wonderful Ukrainian actress, who's probably going to support me and Boris Illich Oilynik. Culture is perhaps the most important thing that Ukraine can do today in a different world, because we will not produce better TVs in the nearest Japanese and better cars. Culture is the face of the nation. Because of this, of course, I am very sorry that the government actually left behind the same pitiful figures as last year. They're just taken and copied under the copier. Well, imagine what we have. Forty-nine million per movie. Last year, I think it was exactly the same number. Where that movie is, I want to ask. Where is it, at least for the 40 million we have? It's good, though, that there's a little bit of cultural connection to the diaspora. Five million, though. To develop the Ukrainian language is 4 pitiful millions, well, 4 pitiful. Since we're talking about issues in the complex, I'm going to say that, you know, what's been allocated to the bookkeeping, about 20 million in the budget, to this day, this committee of Chiza hasn't gone a penny. With the Ministry of Culture, I am very glad that the minister of culture has just approached me, and we'll be hanging out tomorrow. The Ministry of Culture didn't go to the bookstore for a penny. Because I just want to say that, well, at least this year, Victor Mikhailovich, speed up the question. And I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u114	Mikola Porovski is invited from the nonfractional group to the presentation. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u115	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The State budget should contain financial mechanisms to address the most pressing economic, public and social problems. In my view, the biggest and most important national problem is the dependence of the Ukrainian economy on external energy supplies and the high energy efficiency of the internal gross product. I can tell you that the energy efficiency of GDP in Ukraine is 4.5 times higher than in developed countries. In the State Budget project, I found, unfortunately, mere pitiful figures, which are by no means in any way impossible to solve an existing state problem in any part, but simply a lack of understanding by the government, the developers of this very important government program. I also want to say that the potential for energy conservation in Ukraine is between 40 and 42 percent, i.e. if you create an effective financial mechanism for energy conservation, Ukraine can reduce energy consumption by 70 to 80 million. Stupid. Contingent fuel, that is, about 20 billion. gas cubes or about a third of the consumption of oil and petroleum products. However, the State Budget project provides only for a comprehensive state energy conservation programme of 1 million people. 800,000. That's right. Even in the government project held in 2000 by the State, there were five million. A pitiful figure of 300,000 is available for the comprehensive state energy conservation programme. That's right. What is 300,000?? Any plant that uses non-traditional renewable energy sources, the price of a kilowatt of the set capacity is $600. This is one 100 kilowatt plant. It's a cylindrical windmill. And the government is offering us this kind of money in the State Budget! But they don't justify the paper that printed the State Budget. I notice that we, or Parliament, have passed the Alternative Energy Act, the Alternative Gas Fuel Act. Not a penny in the State Budget project on these critical economic developments, the solution to the petrol, fuel, and fuel crises in Ukraine is available. In addition, the State Energy Savings Committee does not provide funding for the State Committee. The price of the question is 700,000. Money in a year. The past government of Julia Timoshenko made a wrong decision to dissolve the State Energy Committee, the only government body whose activity is aimed at solving the problem. Yesterday, when the Republican Christian Party considered this issue, I was obliged not to vote in favour of the budget and to do everything possible to get it back to work, since such a budget does not in any way solve the extremely important state problem of energy conservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u116	Yes, thank you. Mikola Noshchenko is invited from the “Go, Ukraine!” faction. Prepare the Blackwolf from the National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u117	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymyr Litvina National Block, head of the Committee on Budgets. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the honourable ones! As we consider the draft budget, we have the possibility, in terms of budgetary relations, to evaluate the actions of the government team. And this project that we're looking at today, it shows that we're not going to provide, if we accept it, an increase in the government's promises to increase the welfare of the population. I want to continue with the topic raised by Ludmila Pavlovna, about the suspension of social laws with a separate article, and they will touch on this – this is the specific extent of social security assistance when the child is born, unfortunately too much, child care until the age of three, disability pensions and other categories. There is also an attempt to intervene in the pay system by suspending the relevant rules of sectoral law. Note: All of this is done to reduce expenses, not to increase the well - being of our families. One explanation: no funds. And no novelties in the income section, no explanations. For example, why funds, such as ministries and departments, are constantly increasing, at a rate higher than that of low - income families. We understand that the standard of living and the quality of life are set in communities: villages, cities, villages, and not on asphalt outside government premises. It seems to me, Victor Mikhailovich, that your team in the apparatus is headed by a special unit headed by a special deputy minister, after cutting social costs, after creating a mechanism to make it impossible to obtain state support. A few words about relationships with local, state, and local budgets. Every year, we have district budgets that don't come up with their own income. And we're always assigning them a subsidy that's 10 months away. Let's make an amendment once, and we won't go back to it again. Well, I'm not guilty of electing the Mid-Booze District, which has four rural residents per acre of area, not guilty. The same position in Shostinsky, the area of the Yampil region. You have to look at it one more time, and you don't have to go back to it. And by procedure. Nearly 32 items of the Budget Resolution are not included. In doing so, individuals do not need funds. It's the procedure. For example, the government threw out a standard of development, approving legal regulations within a month. If we don't count it, we don't force it into the law, it means that our adopted provisions of the law won't be fulfilled. I think we should take this document up, but at the same time, I fully support the proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, yours, so that we strictly adhere to the budget procedure defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u118	Yes, Alexander Blackwolf, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. Next, Paul Kachure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u119	Dear friends, the National Movement of Ukraine has carefully considered the government’s budget, and it is reasonable to take it into consideration, for another position can only be compared to the position not supported at all by a government that can be formed. There's no one to return this budget now. Obviously, the best budget in time will no longer be made, and going into the next year without a budget would be a crime against Ukraine, so we consider the proposals to return to a government that does not exist at the moment, the budget is the proposals at the level of collapse and still Ukraine as a state. At the same time, it is clear that if we approved the Prime Minister yesterday, our discussion of the budget could be more substantive. And it's obvious that Yuri Yehanurov was willing to go to great compromises, taking into account all the thoughts that were presented in the Supreme Council by various factions, approaching this budget not as something that had already been glued, but as a piece of clay with which a joint effort in the iterative regime could come to some result. At the same time, criticizing this budget and the faction of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, there are many observations about it. They also apply to local self - government, with regard to local budgets. Again, it's a general problem that we have throughout all of Ukraine's history. And with regard to the development of individual sectors, including agriculture, and again chronic diseases related to underfunding, underfunding, and science. However, we would like to emphasize that there is no way to say that this budget has been developed worse than the budget of the past or the past or other years. And that's why we see in a sensible decision of the Supreme Council to approve the government of the next candidate to be submitted by the President, and with regard to the adoption of this budget for consideration, in the end, we're going to go to a good budget that could allow Ukraine to live well in 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u120	Paul Kachur from the faction “Our Ukraine” is invited to the presentation. Prepare Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today we have to decide about the 2006 budget project -- to take it up or to reject it. I'll start with the main one. The “Our Ukraine People's Union” faction suggests that the budget be accepted for consideration. And those comments and suggestions, which, including in our faction, are considered on the work side of the Committee on Budgets and found a negotiated solution. I would like to make one brief observation today, especially when we assess the 2005 budget, as we easily call this budget a food budget. Dear friends, let us not forget that this budget has finally raised our pensions to those who could not survive, not eat, but survive. We have raised wages, and let us be proud that we voted for it, and let us be happy that the government has managed to fill it with real money. And to talk about the budget of eating with regard to those people who have received today, that they can finally buy something and survive, I think it's unfair. Now for specific suggestions. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, first of all, we are starting to take a step towards the development budget. It is estimated that 5 billion will be directed further to the amounts that were in the 2005 budget. Why can't we still write and finance the priorities that are now strategic for the state? I'm talking about, for example, the airline program, the AN-70 planes, the AN-148, that's the sector, and that's the product that Ukraine might be proud of. We're writing them down today in funding a special fund. It's a risky source, given that it's coming from privatizing land under privatized enterprises. If we're talking about supporting our industry, you still have to allocate funds and military intelligence so that it can buy these planes so that we can show that these are really good planes and we're already buying them for ourselves, so we recommend another. Similarly, there are other areas of the military complex where we can really be present in the international market. Can't get past the local budget issue. In the Budget Resolution, we wrote that part of the local budgets should be at least 45 percent. Now, unfortunately, there are 41.2 left. We can refer to statistics, to figures that we keep the same trend: 80 percent of the local budget's expenditure structure will be waged. But that's an extremely large percentage. We have to cut down, otherwise local budgets are just cash payments.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u122	Alexander Stoyan from the faction of Ukraine. Prepare Ponomarenko from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u123	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Region Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. You know, I heard a report on the implementation of the 2005 state budget, a draft budget for 2006, and I asked the President of Ukraine why the Order of Olga Timoshenko and Mr. Pinzenik Jaroslav Wisely were not given at least for such great credits? Or, at least, why did he resign them? For what? And in fact, respectable friends, really people with their pockets, as promised by the President and the new government, have sensed the actions of the new government. These pockets have become empty. But they have something to compare with, they can compare to 2004, when the Yanukovich government actually made normal wages. And normal social benefits, and people really started to feel like they were living in a normal state. How was it necessary to have such high professionalism in order to destroy what was done by the normal government in eight months? Now for social policy proposals. What does the government offer? Minimum wage of 350 dollars. I'll remind you, today it's 332 bracelets, and 18 bracelets will be added. The subsistence minimum is 423 bracelets now, and 453, 30 bracelets will be added. And here's the government's credit for the minimum wage that we have right now. But, dear friends, nowhere in the world can there be so much respect that the minimum wage is less than the minimum wage. Then you don't have to work. And here I agree with the unions that have approached me and the national MPs, I need the government to set up today and the Supreme Council to confirm that the minimum wage is at the minimum wage. How is the cost of living calculated? They took an old base, an old database of living baskets, a set of products, and were calculated on an old base. Once again, trade unions are asking me to declare 170 dollars below the cost of living. So we can't vote for a budget where there's a low cost of living. Now we're going to take a living minimum for a non-working person with a pension rate of as much as 359 dollars, that is, they're going to add 17-20 dollars to our pensioners. Mr. Pinzenik, the axis from this rostrum in December of last year said that the subsistence minimum should be 800 dollars and the minimum wage should be equal to it. Why are you giving other numbers now? Have you forgotten that you promised the people that they had come to the populace and now you do not know what to do? Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine believes that it cannot accept this budget. And another number. It turns out the president hasn't forgotten, he's asking for a budget of 21.5 for trips. Dear friends, there will be 37 trips that year, three trips a month. So when we see the President in our country, please tell me? Is he going after another medal or what's he going to go after? I think we need to cut travel, cut payments to the President's Administration and give it to the people. I think the budget needs to be reversed and looked at in terms of increasing social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u124	George Ponomarenko, a faction of Communists, is invited to speak. Next is Valérie Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u125	Ponomarenko, faction of the Compartia of Ukraine. The status of implementation of the 2005 budget is not as gratifying as it was trying to draw the Acting Minister of Finance, but rather very disgruntled. Of the 420 million gasification sites in rural areas today, only 13 million have been added to the ground. I understand what's in the dirt, December, when. If they give these remaining money, what is it to run gas pipelines? Of the 400 million invested in investment projects, local budgets accounted for just over 8 per cent, including repairs to schools, hospitals, water supply and clean-up facilities, etc. Of the 100 million bracelets, only one city in Lviv has been allocated to sustaining the historic construction of cities. We are silent on the payment of public service debt. And the six billion that are stored on savings books, and all we see today is the endless queues in G.E.K. and the savings registers. We are not saying that wage arrears are now worth 1.3 billion grevens. As early as March, we drew the attention of the Government to the fact that the local budgets lack 1.4 billion grevens. What we have today. By the end of the year, the local budgets would still lack 1.4 billion, including 857 million to pay the budget. Viktor Mihajlović is silent here that local budgets have already taken over 3.5 billion dollars in wages for 7 months. So we have a month and a half, starting in the middle of November, nothing to pay in local budgets. Thus, we cannot assess the positive implementation of the budget for the seven months of 2005. And now on the draft budget for 2006. Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko and I have filed a draft order rejecting the draft Budget Act 2004. This draft regulation is more than 30 acts, more than 35 laws are amendments to tax legislation, and article 38 provides that budget and military benefits depend on their material situation. The Constitutional Court has already addressed this network and has declared it unconstitutional. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Ludmila Pavlovna, I think we will take sin upon ourselves if we take this budget to the Supreme Council. We can't roll.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u126	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev is invited from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Prepare Vitalia Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u127	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear friends, I think we haven't touched the main issue and answered it today. The only person who marked it was the head of the Accounts Chamber of Simonenko. And the problem is, really, what's happened is that, with a significant increase in revenue to the budget, that's true, and you have to say that the past government only approved 63 billion, and it's more than 80 billion. That's true, too. But there's going to be a fall in the gross inner product. How does this metamorphosis take place? And finding this understanding, I think, should be the basis for the 2006 budget. In which cases it may be. Childishing the Economy? No, it's not. Because in childhood, the income of the budget is going to increase and the gross product is going to increase. This may be the case when part of the money from the economy is taken into the budget through a system of overpayments, such as taxes, VAT non-reimbursement and so on. This could be in cases of increased tax burden on the economy. For example, you canceled free zones, priority areas, shipbuilding, and machine building. The pressure on the economy has increased and, roughly speaking, turned the economy into a budget. This could be by replacing the internal market with imports. Let's say you import energy at higher prices, and today they've completely shut down, let's say, agriculture, which we need to talk about very seriously. Is there such a strategy, or should we develop it in the 2006 budget? And here I think we need to take a clear position that this strategy, even though it seems to have given some kind of a boost to the revenue of the budget, is completely wrong for the domestic economy. And we need to stop eating money, and the respectable socialists here or the unions have to live their lives. And I am absolutely convinced that we will not be able to make the 2006 budget non-food or non-social. Because very large transitional expenses are unfortunately going to be in 2005. But I think we should seriously go back to the domestic economy. Each country can provide as much social benefits to its people as the real economy has. And if we don't realize this golden rule, believe me, we're going to have this stagnation that we're going to be dating again for 10 years, as we went out, excuse me, by the age of 99. That's why I wanted to, Victor Mikhailovich, we can't take two percent away from the hospital for a week, and a hundred percent from the military, that's impossible. I'm sorry, the Ukrainian economy isn't pulling it out. So I think that the balance of this budget needs to be seriously adjusted to benefit from the development of the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u128	Vitali Majko is invited from the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine to prepare Matviyenko from the Committee of Industrial Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u129	Vitaly Majko Party of Industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine, faction of Industrialists, entrepreneurs of Ukraine The party got acquainted, members of the party, with the budget. I just want to say that the budget needs to be taken up for consideration. It's a big job done. They give us these materials, they give us the opportunity to work and give us the notes we need. But I would like to say, like other budgets, Victor Mikhailovich, there is no belief in government in its industry. They hope for everything, only what opportunity. I can say yes, frankly to you. In addition to metallurgy, 10-15 percent of Ukrainian industry works, 10-15 percent. Everything else is dead. And no serious steps are taken in this direction. Radio electronics, the electronic industry that gives the biggest income today to Japan, to the United States, to other countries, is dying in us. There are ways, there are scientists, there are ways to work, but all of this is not being financed today. That's what's left of it. And the right thing to do here is to say that we've completely forgotten that there's productivity. You know, I'm for the Ukrainian people to live well, so the minimum wage is high. But it should always have been strengthened by the productivity of the work. If there is no productivity, where do you get this salary? I'd like to ask you, that's a concept to remember. And in the direction of investment policy, investment, support for the direction that has been to date is both shipbuilding industry and aircraft building, and other directions must be supported. This is not acceptable for us today to have this excess of imports over exports. For a loving country, this is a loss and more to live on just sending metal products, for example, abroad, is not the answer to the question. But now I've turned to one another's metallurgical factories. You have a complicated position there in the Supreme Council for the sale of metal. Where this metal is taken, and it turns out to be gone, they have a ten times more demand than they can possibly be. Here's the way out, where the crisis is. So I think we're only going to support the budget if there's development, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u130	Sergei Matvienkov, please prepare for John the Rabbit by the Committee on Environmental Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! It was not easy for our voters this year, the crisis after the crisis that had changed one after another, the first the meat crisis, then the sugar crisis, then the rise in food prices in the complex could not but affect the Ukrainian people. All of this, if this were to happen, because of the decline in output, is to be considered if in 2004 the GDP growth rate was 12 per cent, it was only 3.5 per cent in 8 months this year. The decline in GDP in 2005 was 5 times. The implementation of the 2005 budget is under threat, all of which are well understood, and even the figures that have been brought forward today are reluctant to reflect. The reasons for this are many, I will not stop at many of them, and I will focus on some of them that I find most worrying are the most acceptable to all industries. In our product structure, 60 per cent of GDP is exports, how can monetary policy be maintained in this situation if we play freely at the exchange rate, we are playing the dollar. We have washed two billion bracelets out of the trade of industrial enterprises, but if it were only two billion seized from the trade of industrial enterprises, we would be trapped in the pockets of the most vulnerable sectors of the population. The people who kept the crumbs, we took up to 5-6 percent from them. Our entire monetary system, or the exchange rates that we've been building here, has led to nothing but a rise in food market prices. That's all we got today with this course. Next step, he even reminds me of the racket. On 12 August, the National Bank adopts Decree No. 291 on the system of compulsory monetary regulation. Victor Mikhailovich, I can't understand this order at all. 20 percent of the credit you take is required to put in a reserve that will be returned to you after that. Yeah, you're right about that way. After the end of the loan. What kind of investments are we talking about? It's the most natural racket. The issue of the mandatory sale of land under enterprises that have been privatized. You'll excuse me, but that reminds me of the money. What is it that you have to buy land? I'm sorry, but who thought it was for the metallurgical plants, what it was for, and what it would be for the mines. Increased payments for use of resources. We raised twice last year, and this year again: 2.2 times the coal, 3 times the ore, 3.5 times the raw material. What's going to come out of the price policy? I want to talk about social issues. You will remember with what inspiration the Children of War Law was awaiting, as they hoped it would be. I think some even considered the days when January 1st came. And we, this year's budget, are all hoping for a "chulp," and we are putting an end to it. Payments to participants and war veterans since 2006, disabled persons. Because this is the category where we have to lower our heads, and today we're cutting it down. Again, Master. Article 65. Comparison with wage by average output. Article 43. We're all keeping it safe. I think we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u132	Thank you. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u133	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a huge mistake if we focused on discussing certain specific figures of the State Budget project next year. First of all, we need to come to terms with the ideology that is at the heart of this sustainable budget. Whether this is a budget for eating or a development budget. Another budget of eating Ukraine cannot be tolerated. The one who carefully read the materials of the National Bank could not pass through that phrase. The National Bank writes: “The ability of the National Bank to solve inflation problems is limited by monetary means. The left hand side of the tasks in this area is related to the socio-economic policy of the government.” This can be said of all other problems. This tells us that the answer we need to look for in the ideology that is set up in this state budget. Thus, what state budget guarantees the progress of Ukraine. A budget that will not violate existing legislation on the use and restoration of natural resources. Our legislation in the State Budget provides costs for the use of natural resources. And according to our legislation, these funds have to be used to restore natural resources, to eliminate all kinds of accidents, and so on. And we throw this money into the general basket, and then they run and they don't show up, and then we say, "Why do we have so big environmental problems?" So you have to finally break this trend and you can and you have to break it this year. We need a budget that will eventually open up the process of creating a whole, completely structural economy, to open up the process of developing a fine internal market, mostly the production of a national producer. The time has long come for a powerful agricultural sector, many other high - tech productions. Tell me, people good, why can't we put out our combo in 15 years, why are we spending so much money on buying combines abroad and the market is uncovered? And we're 30-40 years old with the Levels and we're still collecting grain, we're losing no idea how much of this grain we're putting it in the field. Again, there is no such policy. Let the village rumble. This budget should finally solve the problem of the village. Who doesn't know the problems of the village today is not a Ukrainian politician. There are many who fear that the village does not sow the winter. Why isn't it sown? Not just because he doesn't have money, but because he has such a price policy that he doesn't want to sow next year because he knows they're gonna take it for nothing. It is a tragedy for this man who has land that has grain and cannot sow. Once again, we have to solve this problem of this village. And a spiritual sphere. Dear friends! To this day, the government has not financed the development of either the Ukrainian language or the Ukrainian book. Finally, let us restore Ukraine to the Ukrainian tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u134	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko of the Committee on Persioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In less than a week, the draft budget is in Parliament, and there are battalions all around it. What is the budget, the development budget, or the budget for eating with the hint of being overly social? In view of the interests of the least protected groups of people that the committee is concerned with, I would like to say. Unfortunately, it's not a development budget, but it's not a budget for eating, it's a social budget. It's a typical anti-veteran budget project. Once again, we try to make ends meet at the expense of veterans. What reasons do I have to say that? That's what it's like. I've already talked about this today, and even today, the House of Auditors of Ukraine is drawing attention to the fact that there is a deficit in the budget of the Pension Fund. They call it the sum -- about 12 billion dollars -- and they warn that by the end of the year, it could go up to 15 billion. But the finance minister claims that this amount is smaller, but he confirms that there is a deficit in the Pension Fund budget. Then there is the danger of not paying pensions. The following year, especially in view of the one-and-a-half percent reduction in the pension fund and the double reduction in the exchange rate, the deficit may reach 18 billion. This money, at least in its entirety, is not in the budget. And they're supposed to be there. The other one. As early as November 18, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, and the President signed the Ukrainian Law on Social Protection for War Children. It was to take effect on January 1, 2006. But the State Budget project in this law has stopped three key standards: the basic pension allowance, 25 percent housing and utility benefits, public transportation, and then the law becomes virtually nothing. Third, and perhaps the main thing. The orange authorities love to imitate as if by honesty, morality, the people of today’s authority, even though the whole world is laughing at the hands that they have not stolen, and the corruption that literally devours this authority. What can honesty and morality be talked about by the authorities that take away from an 80-year-old frontist, a war invalid, a wartime participant, a rescuer of humanity from fascism, then from the blood to the benefits of housing and utility? During the past 15 years, there have been different backgrounds in power in Ukraine. But no one had ever gone down before. Debt to these people is sacred. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u136	Thank you. Paul Silent of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ukrainian National Party, Paul Mokchan I have seen that, apart from John the Rabbit, no one has discussed the most important problem today, which is the problem of Ukrainian culture and its development. When it comes to the paradoxical trends of the previous decade, I have to tell you that from childhood I remember a creepy picture of a fairy tale hero flying on an eagle and being forced to feed him with his own body parts, cutting himself off. And I've always been impressed by this story, and what's left of that hero if he ever gets to that place. It's kind of like this with our culture: we get, we get absolutely to zero. If this year, the distinguished Victor Mikhailovich, was provided with 111 million, the efforts of the Ukrainian People's Party were budgeted, and the Ukrainian film did not spend any more money on producing the Ukrainian book on the development of the Ukrainian language, and we did not spend any money on producing the Ukrainian book on the development of the Ukrainian language, which, with the great efforts and efforts of the Committee on Budget, supported by Ludmila Pavlovna, we were able to put it there, I see no reason why I would have to vote in favour of this budget if you were to shorten and develop the Ukrainian language next year, if those 50 million that are foreseen will not be spent again, because you have provided for an internal regulation of such mechanisms to finance any cultural programs that Ukrainian culture will actually lead to bone. All of this is saddened by the fact that so - called pragmatism takes on a mountain of patriotism and national self - awareness. If we don't apply the principle of self-restraint, which was applicable to all societies, when we're going, as they say, to tempests and Greeks, and they're going to gloat, and there's absolutely nothing in which they don't limit themselves, and I know that cars are being filled. Why to the libraries of rurals that have turned into shamans, where they drink assholes and get Ukrainian populations that are productive and they always give -- we all come from the village mostly. And what's going on, what's the perspective? Libraries are dying. Today, if we don't predict the fundamental changes in approaches to culture, we have only one thing -- total criminality. And that's why I'm going to be absolutely against it, and the Ukrainian People's Party is calling for a review of these principles of budgeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u138	Thank you, dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the question in accordance with article 39 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. As a result of the discussion of the Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can make a reasoned decision on its rejection in the event of an inadequacy of this Code and the main directions of budgetary policy for the next budget period and the proposals of the Supreme Council to them adopted in accordance with part six of article 33 of this Code. That is, if we don't take a rejection decision, then the 2006 budget automatically goes to the committee that has to work on it. Dear colleagues, this is all in line with the Rules. I'd like to ask you. I'm out of procedure. But, dear fellows, there is a draft decree made by the national deputies of Simonenko, Ponomarenko, on rejection. No, it's not a decision that doesn't have the power, we shouldn't vote it, it's a decision. We consulted the Committee on Budgets. We did the same. No, no, dear fellows, we should not vote in favour of the budget. The Supreme Council after the presentation of the budget, if it does not take a decision on the rejection, means that it automatically moves into the knowledge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It all fits the law and logic. We do. And we won't vote for acceptance. Therefore, dear colleagues, if you have no objection, I can put to the vote a motion to reject the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget. Please enter 3 minutes on the basis of the vote. Sign up. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u139	Please hand over the Communist factions, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u140	Vladimir Leschenko, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u141	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. As the presentation of the 2006 draft budget showed, it does not meet the needs of society: very many comments and so forth. Therefore, it must be rejected. Moreover, he was represented by his government, who was retired. Tomorrow or the day after, or when a new government will come and start giving us a new draft budget again. So I propose to vote for the rejection. But in view of the fact that Volodymyr Mikhailovich, who is currently absent from the Chamber, the vote should be postponed until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u142	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u143	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party of Lithuania. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are the whole assembly, taking the budget, constantly speaking, showing us the document, and we cannot, without time, consider it and work it out accordingly. We're like deputies, we're like committees and everything. Therefore, based on this logic, I think it would be right if we now took this budget with you to work in order to consider it in the committees by first October and make proposals, because, if we do not, we will have a document that we will not be able to read. And whoever wants to work reads the document and makes their proposals. Although I would like to refer to Kabmin in this case and recall that the adoption of the current budget will be primarily related to how we will implement this year's budget, including local budget subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u144	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u145	Oleg Belarus, please give the floor to National Deputy Kirilchuk Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u146	Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u147	Thank you. I agree with most of the speakers today. And those remarks that are perhaps even essential, but they need to be removed, not created, the better, the worse. That's why I'm supporting the decision today, the rejection of voting now to appease those who really want it, and to join the budget committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u148	Ivan Hare, please, microphone. We still have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u149	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! I think we should finally take responsibility. And don't translate the case into the Cabinet of Ministers. We have enough potential in the Supreme Council on the budget committee to actually produce a normal budget for next year. And if we don't, that means we're breaking the constitutional terms of this document. And we're just destabilizing the situation for the winter, for the next year. I think let's not play politics. If we want and have resources in the Supreme Council to improve this bill, we have to do it. Because I understand politics perfectly, and you understand perfectly that I understand it. So let's not play, let's take this document for consideration. We'll work in factions, work on committees and improve it. Don't expect anyone to do this for you. You've been chosen to be a good document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-21-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'd like to say that people chose us. And we have all the responsibility in common. By being objective, Ukraine does not need such a budget. Let's face it and call it our names. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it easy, please. But we have to get out of the real situation that even if we approve the government, and we have to do that, then we're not going to get a better budget. On the contrary, then, I am convinced that we should give what we have to give. What you need to do without stress. So, dear fellows, what do we need to do? Now to organize serious committee work and look, first of all, at the budget that we have proposed, the budget resolution that we have adopted. I would like to remind you that the budget year starts on January 1st, not December 1st, if some parameters are applied on December 1st. And make the budget that the country needs, but at the same time we need to look at the sources of this budget. So that it doesn't work out, we'll send it to the government, and the government will give us back the original budget. That is why Parliament needs to work today. But according to the budget code, I now put to the vote draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 8,000/p on the rejection of Ukraine's draft State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2006. By Peter Simonenko and George Ponomarenko Yes, please, the draft decree is being voted on. [[14:27:04]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Well, I could say right now, these are the two factions that supported it. The Communist faction and the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]] And if you please put on the board, let's take a look. Please, on the board. The Communist faction is 52, Ukraine, Ukraine, People's Party, Timoshenko Block, SPU, Ukrainian People's Party, Go, Ukraine! - zeros, SDPU (o) - 20, Ukraine, Reforms and Orders, Industrial and Business Party, Ukraine National Movement, Labour Ukraine - zero, non-fractional - 2. Thus, honourable colleagues remain in charge of the budget. I would like the Committee on Budgets to be actively involved in the work. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock. Parliamentary hearings on information society development in Ukraine will begin at 3 p.m. Since 16 o'clock, work on committees, factions and groups. Thanks for the job.
