ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:01:03]] There are 419 National Deputies cards in the workplace. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, I call for more intensive work, you see how much we have left for today. Let's work faster. We will now listen to questions related to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. First of all, please, the regulatory committee is ready to cut us a little bit. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, in a second statement from the co-conspirators.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, as he spoke in the morning, two more applications were made to the Supreme Council by the National Deputies for their term of office, and the committee today considered them as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council. In particular, a statement was considered and supported by the national deputy of Ukraine, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, about the timeliness of his parliamentary powers in connection with his appointment as minister for foreign affairs in Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support the Order on this matter. It's given to you during your registration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee to terminate the parliamentary powers of our colleague Tarasyuk in connection with the appointment of his foreign minister. Please vote. [[16:03:15]] For 314 It's been decided. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The committee also considered and supported the statement made by the national deputy Redbornek Eugene Alfredovich in connection with his appointment as Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine. You have been presented with a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national MP, Czervonenko. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u5	I am voting on the proposal of the Regulatory Committee for the permanent suspension of the MP’s mandate in connection with the appointment of his Minister of Transport and Liaison. Please vote. [[16:04:20]] For 318 It's been decided. Yes, dear fellows, I will now continue the thought that I have begun. Now we have to move with you to consider the problems of our Armed Forces. The Conciliation Board suggested that we consider these problems in the complex. So you see, here we have two bills, more faithfully, several bills that deal with two problems -- a draft law on the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2005 -- a presidential project, and three projects -- two MPs, including the presidential bills amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the duration of the military service]] There is such a proposal that we unite these two questions: we hear the Defence Minister's information one by one and the other bills, what's relevant to the Presidential Initiative, then we give the floor to the People's Deputies -- we have two projects here, then we've heard about all of these bills from a committee of profile, and the rapporteur is appointed head of the committee, we've discussed -- and we've made decisions. Is there any objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we'll get to the discussion. I'll see how much it's been signed up for. And then, when we get to the discussion, we'll make the arrangements for the discussion. Okay? Please show me one thing at a time. Please show me right away on the second question of how many were registered. Let's take 15 minutes. Well, 21 minutes then. Is there no objection? All right, we got a deal. I think, Your Honor, you've understood all this a long time ago, and I think we're going to support these decisions by almost 400 votes. Well, why waste our time? I invite you to the words of Griesenk Anatoly Stepanovich, Minister of Defense. He will report to us two bills: 7,160 - on the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces for 2005 and 7058-3 - on the amendment of article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the duration of the military service]] Anatoly Stepanovich, how many minutes do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u6	I think 10 or 12 is enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u7	Well, please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today we are considering two presidential bills: the first, the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the second, the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. These are extremely important for the state and for the army. I'd like to support them immediately. First bill: "On the 2005 strength of the Ukrainian Armed Forces." The approval of the military force is solely the mandate of the Supreme Council, and if we adopt this bill, we will have the legal basis for the reform measures planned for the current year in the Ministry of Defence. The bill foresees that on December 30th of this year a limit of 245,000 military personnel will be established, including 180,000 military personnel and 65,000 civilian personnel. For information, we now have 285,000 people, including 210,000 military and 75,000 civilian. There are a few features of this bill that you can understand. According to the strategic defence bulletin, or as it's called the White Paper, it was predicted that by the end of this year we would have about 200-210 thousand people in the army, that is to say we were going to reduce the Armed Forces much more, by 75-85,000 people. We believe that under today's conditions we can't go to such a radical reduction in the army. It's theoretically possible. But first of all, we're not going to comply with those requirements of the Supreme Council law on social protection of people and we're actually going to throw some of them out of the army. And I would like people who are freed even in the process of reforming to leave the army with a good spirit and a good mood and want their children to serve in the army instead of curse us. And secondly, there's a very significant imbalance between part of the fighting security and between the fighting parts and parts of the security. The point is that in recent years we have mostly cut the army by fighting parts and have already gone abroad when after this year the reduction of the fighting parts is completely undervalued and would have already affected the defence. But the old back-up systems remain overexpensive. And we're also doing the task of utilizing the weapons of combat technology. And there's also a huge number of bases and arsenals that need to be protected, and that's why we can't go to a more radical reduction. Another question is, can we not shorten the army? We can't. On the one hand, we cannot keep it on the right level. On the other hand, we have about 35 to 40 thousand military body positions that are not promising in terms of their use for defence. Technology has been working on its resources, and seeing the army in three, five, 10 years, it's not necessary. What exactly is being reduced? The North Operational Command, the management of two aircraft units, two air defence units, twenty - three battle stations, eighteen parts of the security, thirty - five bases and warehouses, and eighty other security units and various facilities are being reduced. It is planned to liberate 134 military towns, as well as large military commissions, and to largely restructure military educational institutions, especially in civilian universities. Not all MPs may know, but every year we're preparing about 20,000 reserve officers, and now it's over 800,000. We don't need that amount, because it's going to be a purely officer reserve army, all the more so that we can't find the funds for their proper assembly at least every three to four years. What categories of people are planned to reduce? Out of 40,000: 40,000 are military, 10,000 are civilian military personnel. To the army. Of these, 9,000,660 officers will be reduced, including 5,000,250 are senior officers, 4,000,410 are junior officers. It is planned to reduce 4,000 940 flag positions, 900 classmates, and 14,000 500 sergeants and soldiers. about jobs, because it's actually going to be about 3,000 times less alive, because there's an incomprehensible. The cost of these reduction measures, including social protection in accordance with the envisaged laws, is in the current budget and is planned for changes to the budget that Parliament will adopt. The president, the government and the military authorities are asking you to support this bill. Second bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service. Two things are proposed here. First. Shortening the term of military service in the Armed Forces, and I also stress other military formations from the current 18 to 12 months. For those young people who have higher education, up to nine months. In the naval force and in the marine component of other force structures, the service will be at 18 months. This is followed by both European and world experience. For information: In the armed forces of Romania, Uzbekistan now has 12 months of military service. In Germany as well as in neighbouring countries: Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Czech Republic, is now nine months old. In Austria, it's eight months. Is the army ready to move on to such short periods of service? Yes, she was ready, and she was preparing for Minister Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. The General Staff has made the right planning, we've made the adjustment right now and we've decided to leave two calls, as it is now. But the suit will be implemented within three months. And it will allow us to have sergeants and junior specialists on one side. And on the other hand, just a young addition to a young fighter's course. In addition, we have increased the amount of the appeal already this spring by 4,000 young men and in the fall by 12 to 13,000. Starting around 2008, we're going to be doing a 1-time-a-year appeal. I'd like to emphasize, and this is very important for mothers. who are afraid of putting their children in the army, which in part is a factor that is the basis for the grandparents, because there will be only one year of service in the army. There will be no first and second years of service. The second aspect of this same bill is the expansion of the possibilities for accepting those who want to serve on a contractual basis. And here I would point out three aspects. First of all, with your help, we want to grant you the right to serve on a contract, for those who have served on a term after six months, not 12, as it is now. Secondly, we invite you to approve an increase in the age price for those who want to serve on a contract from the present 30 to 40 years. Such practices exist in both Russia and elsewhere. Thirdly, we ask Parliament to give us the right to enter into service under the contract of those people who did not have a full-time military service but who have a higher education at the level of a bachelor or a specialist. And our research in various areas shows that there are such desirable ones, especially in depressed regions or where the labor market is very crowded. Now there are about 400,000 of these people, and we call on less than four percent of them to serve, and the rest get delayed. We could get most of these people involved in the contract service. In closing, I'd like to mark three things. The first is to thank the national deputies of Gavrish and Homutinnik, who have initiated appropriate legislation to shorten the term of military service. They are, in fact, those positions we have reproduced in the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine, but we also propose to resolve other issues related to the contractual service. So I'd like to ask the people's deputies to withdraw their bills, like they've already entered the Presidential Bill. Secondly, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Committee for its active discussion yesterday, which went beyond the reduction of the army. We discussed the issue and reform of the army, which is no less, perhaps more important. And the last thing I'd like to say is that if Parliament accepts today's completion of the term of military service, it will be a celebration in all barracks, it will be accepted positively in society. I hope that this celebration will be limited to a cup of tea rather than something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u9	Now, as a former soldier, I wanted to draw your attention to not having such a holiday that tomorrow we have nothing. Yes, can I ask you a question? Sign up. Only those serving in the army have the right to ask questions. Please, how much are they planning here? Let's take five minutes. Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u10	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, given your offer, I must present Sergeant Besparly, as I served as sergeant. In this case, I'm more interested in this question. Please tell me, Mr. Minister, what is the deadline under this scheme that we can still go on to make it virtually decisive for us to have those who serve in the army under contract, this is one question for them to move on. And the second question. It has to do with gender policy. To what extent is this related to the possibility of participating in the Armed Forces in one or another quality of women.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u11	Thank you for asking. First. Obviously, you know that when the President was still a candidate for the Presidents, he made a commitment to a contractual arrangement. a special composition of the Armed Forces abroad in 2010. And this is the task of the government's "Meet the People" program. And now we're going to do everything we can to do it. It's literally short. Already this year, we are planning on three brigades, such as some sort of pilot projects, one brigade in each species, to work out this experience, to maximize the number of contractors, to finance them, and to provide combat training to gain the experience that would be useful for the future of the complete transition to a contractual principle. The other one. It's about gender policy. You obviously know that tens of thousands of women are already working in the Armed Forces. By the time of March 8, I had given them the marks, and they were already at the lieutenant colonel's level, Colonel. There are no generals yet, but there are cadets. And I think this question has a perspective. I stand for more women to join nonmilitary positions in the Armed Forces, including military units, and not only in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u12	Anatoly Stepanovich, and the MVD already have the generals, as far as I know. So don't fall behind. Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u13	George Ponomarenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I served not in the army, but in the fleet. But the question to the minister is. Your attitude toward the initial military training of young people in the context of the declared transition to service, contractually assembled?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u14	You know, I've been talking to journalists, answering that question. I advocate that even now, especially when we can't do a full-time military day of military training for reasons of financial character, I would like even now to do whatever it takes to get into the school curriculum, in other schools, to get our officers to go there, to take classes instead of long-working soldiers who haven't seen a living weapon for 10, 15, 20 years. I'm advocating that as much as possible open the doors of the Armed Forces so that young boys can come to our military units so that they can get into the tank, on the plane, pass on to the RV, if necessary, under safety conditions to shoot. And if two or three eyes burn after that class trip, it's already our people, they won't get out of the army, they'll go there either to the contractors or to the officers. I'm the most friendly kind of relationship that would help society accept the army correctly and what was formerly politicized was called military patriotic education to be raised to the right level in an independent Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u15	Yes, please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u16	Adam Ivanovich, Major of the Reserve, faction of the Regions, Pecklusenko. Mr. Minister, please tell me you're talking about a smaller inheritance. I'm not a supporter of that thought, because it's not the number of calls and the number of days of service that depend on order. And the order is exactly what the flags and officers you're planning to reduce. So what are you planning to do in this direction? The second question is military towns. You're planning to throw them on local councils again? Well, most importantly, this law must be voted on at least for six months to reduce the number of sleepless nights for the mothers of the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u17	Thank you for your question. I totally agree with that. I was just revealing one aspect. Of course you're right. And as a reserve colonel, I know very well that heritage depends on many factors. And even in Soviet times, whether it was two or three years of service, the dominant was, say, an officer, first of all, a lieutenant, a platoon commander. Either he's working with a military team, he knows the situation, he's studying people's psychology, and he's running these processes, or he's gone home after the formal time of service, he's gone home, and he's throwing everything at the sergeants, and he's not paying any attention to what's going on there, and that's when it all starts. But at the same time, if there's a year of grading, you know there's both dedication to soldiers and related belt operations and so on -- that'll be less. I repeat, this is only one factor. Second, with regard to military towns. Yeah, yeah, I just didn't report it right now, if I have to, I'll give you that data, there's a plan. What to do with these cities. A certain percentage is transferred to local authorities, and in many cases local authorities want to take these territories. In other cases, it would be a rations project to address the housing issue for the Armed Forces, in third cases it would be a different form. I mean, we're working on it, and if you have any suggestions on how to do it better, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u18	Yes, thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Sit down, please. A draft law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service - 7058, author of the national MP Homutinnik Vitali, is being obeyed. Please. Prepare Gavrish. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! My bill was drafted and introduced, in fact, on the second day after the Minister of Defense announced that the term of service had been reduced and announced that it would take a year and a half from tomorrow to serve in the army. Perhaps the minister spoke at that time, perhaps making such a statement without being fully resolved, for such matters are decided solely in the legislative field. So my bill was introduced to address this topical and important issue. The bill is intended to reduce the duration of service for soldiers and sergeants serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations up to 12 months, for sailors and seniors serving on ships, ships and shores, for other military formations up to 18 months, for those with higher education in the training of a specialist or a master for nine months. I want to point out that a month after this bill was registered, the government was drafted in the same way as my Bill 7085-3. And the President, as the subject of the legislative initiative, brought him up to date with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's not much different, and it's even a little bit complementary to my bill. So in order to make the vote more effective, I'm filming my bill in favour of the President's. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u20	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill number 7058-1 is reported by national deputy Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u21	My fellow Members, I think we are only starting a debate on army reform, which needs not only a fresh view of the new team led by the Minister of Defence, but also a serious public debate, because there seems to be such a consensus on the reform of the army that is in Ukrainian society, and there is no other state with such expectations. We also need to consider the neutral status of our country and build an army model that is not only highly effective in fighting, that is, built not at this time, but assessments of the military's ability to protect the country's national security function, but it's a vision for the future. And these are huge costs, because the army at this time is not just an army preparing for war on Earth -- it's preparing to protect its own security in space. Eighty percent of the young people in Ukraine today do not join the army, and these figures have been cited by the leaders of the Razumkov Center and now by Anatoly Grizzenko, the Defence Minister. This means that we have introduced a specific social and financial tax on young people, a fifth part of young people who are responsible for protecting Ukraine. I think if we went to the Ukrainian military barracks now and said, "You're all getting out of the army tomorrow," you know what would happen. But with such an appeal to the American military barracks, you will be brought to court because protecting America and feeding your families at the same time is a great honor for an American military officer. So I think this is the first step in reform, and I urge the Defence Minister to continue the dialogue not only in the session room, but also at the round tables on the model of the Ukrainian army, and I'm filming my bill on behalf of the President's bill, which was set out here so that we don't waste too much time discussing in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u22	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich. I invite the head of the Committee on National Security and Defence of Kručkov Georgi Korniyovich. A report from the committee. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the proposals put forward by the President in a comprehensive manner. In themselves, they did not challenge the overwhelming majority of the members of the committee, but there were a number of issues that I had to report. But first, essentially the proposals made. Not everyone knows that Ukraine, with a population slightly above 47 million people, has the same size as Germany with a population nearly twice as large and with a much stronger economy the largest in Europe after the Russian Federation and Turkey -- 285,000 people. France, with a population of 60 million people, has an army of 259,000, the British Army of 207,6 thousand, and so on. Among all the European states whose armies are assembled for a summons or a mixed system, only in Russia and Ukraine is the 18-month term of military service. Yet, recent reports have shown that Georgia has decided to increase the service term from 12 months to 18 months. In Latvia, Lithuania, Romania - 12 months, Italy - 10 months, Germany, Poland, Bulgaria - 9, Hungary - 6 months. An insight into the experience of other states gives us reason to believe that the draft terms of the term military service allow a clear organization to provide professional training for soldiers and to support the country's defence at an appropriate level, of course, with the army equipped with modern military equipment and weapons. But the transition to short-term military service will require more recruitment resources. In the meantime, because of the numerous legal reasons for the delay referred to by Anatoly Stepanovich, it is becoming increasingly difficult to secure the appeal every year. In addition, the quality of recruitment at the educational level, health status, physical training is getting worse, and the Ministry of Defence needs to pay attention. When it comes to the numbers of the Armed Forces, it should also be borne in mind that the Ukrainian State, by its economic potential, is unable to support the army as it is now. The Defence Law has not been enforced for a year. [[on State budget allocation of at least 3 per cent of the domestic gross product]] In fact, these expenses did not exceed 1.5 - 1.6 percent of the gross domestic product and accounted for 50 percent, up to 60 percent of the minimum requirements of the Armed Forces. Over the years, our army has not received any new types or weapons systems, and this year 80 percent of our military equipment and weapons will run out of resources. In this year, the State Budget Act has allocated approximately a billion million dollars to the defence review. The Czech Republic, whose population is 4 times smaller and the army is almost five times smaller, had a defence budget of $1.9 billion last year; Poland - 4.4; Romania. Half as much as we have is 1.5 billion dollars and so on. Or other data like that, I think they'll show interest in colleagues. We have about $4,000 for one defence officer, while in Romania we have about $15,000, Lithuania is $23,000, Poland is 31 000, Czech Republic is 33, Slovakia is 35.5, Estonia is 40.8, Latvia is 46, Albania is 50,000. I'm not talking about Germany, France, Britain. That's actually, and we didn't grow up there far, far. One resident has a budget for defence costs in Ukraine of about $24; Albania 34; Romania 68; Lithuania -90; Latvia -97; Poland - 115; Slovakia - 133; Estonia -150; Czech Republic - 186. It's a reality you can't count on. By reducing the military forces, our state, which has rid itself of nuclear weapons and military doctrine, which is a defence doctrine, can't help but worry about equipping its army with high-precision weapons, new technology, first of all, aviation, operational tactical, dental rocket systems, management tools, navigations that are capable of releasing our industry. Unfortunately, the state of the domestic defence and industrial complex is disturbing. As Head of the Professional Committee, I have asked the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Government to consider these issues and to make government decisions that would radically change the attitude to the needs of the defence, the armed forces, the enterprises and the institutions of the industrial defence complex, and to preserve and dispose of munitions that are not necessary for defence. I would like to expect an adequate response to the defensive situation, or the collapse of the armed forces will continue. That is why the vast majority of the members of the Committee decided to support the bills. But I have to pay attention to this: the laws that have not yet been passed, as required by the Constitution, have not yet been, even, passed to the Supreme Council with appropriate bills, and senior government officials have already stated that the term of military service is reduced, that the armed forces will be transferred to the contractual assembly system not until 2015, as planned, but by 2010. This was rightly pointed to by a colleague of Homutinics. On the other hand, it has been almost three months now that the army is reforming. It has been announced that the term of military service has been reduced for military personnel who are called to the army in the autumn of last year. And in the legislative order, these issues are not settled. In many cases, I am impressed by the lack of respect for the Law, the Constitution of the new authorities, whose representatives justly accused the former leadership of the State. To return to the legal field the activities of all state authorities in the field of defence and security are an urgent task. Second, the Supreme Council is today considering confirming the number of armed forces only this year, as you remember last year. In our view, such important state issues should be resolved a few years in advance, at least for five to ten, we need a forward-looking approach. Next. Last year, when the number of the Armed Forces was reduced, it was only because the Supreme Council, on the initiative of our committee, passed a law on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from the Armed Forces in connection with their reform and their family members. Unfortunately, the President's draft did not reflect this question, which has already generated numerous military appeals to the Supreme Council. So we suggest that we complete the bill with a separate second point, in which we point out that the reduction in the number of the Armed Forces must be done in compliance with the requirements of the law. People's deputies have written suggestions on this. If the government's review of the State Budget proposes changes to the provisions of the Act against the deterioration of social guarantees for domesticists and veterans, it will cause a well-founded dissatisfaction in the military and veteran environments. What I have to say with all honesty from this rostrum. Another observation is that an explanatory note to the bill notes that a reduction in the term of military service will not require additional costs. It would be more accurate to point out that these costs are funded within the framework of the appointments set by the State Budget for the Reform of the Armed Forces this year. All of this is included in our submissions, which I repeat to the national MPs are both in the first bill and in the second. That's why we're proposing to adopt presidential projects as a basis, and taking into account our committee's proposals, as a whole, as laws do today, we can't delay. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u24	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. The generals are applauding you, so you said the right thing, not just generals, but full generals. Please, five minutes Javorowski, followed by Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski. Yavorov Zovkwa, where there are many soldiers, by the way, the captain of the reserve. Georgi Korniyovich, our army of Ukrainians has several qualities that distinguish it from all the armies of the world. It's on an equal footing, which is virtually nonexistent. But what's important is that it has first place in the data that I have, according to the number of generals. I think we're going to have a general for every regular officer. [[There's a lieutenant, a captain and all that.]] How do you view this phenomenon, and what are your plans? How can we get these generals out of the army just a little bit on civilian seats? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u26	I'm going to say that yesterday when we discussed this issue on the committee, we pointed out that there are clear plans in the ministry to bring the ratio between officers, senior officers and junior officers into line, the number of generalities. It's not a simple question. You know you've often been paid with what? Orders, titles. It's not like it's a bribe from the authorities, it's what it's done. Sadly, we have moved beyond that goal. And the generals say we have more than the entire Soviet Union. So in my opinion, the ministry's management is on the right track. And we'll help with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u27	We will also take the generals to the service for one year, and they will be reduced. Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u28	Please pass the word to George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u29	Ponomarenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u30	Thank you. Georgi Korniyovich, you've been at defense companies lately. I know that your last trip was to the Pavlovgrad Hemzad, where this evil solid rocket fuel was. Fuel, yes. The Americans have put him out, and they won't let him out. How do you even appreciate the state of affairs in defense companies?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u31	You said exactly right about the Pavlovgrad Hemzad and the situation that resulted from the disposal of solid rocket fuel. The Americans made a deal with us. They helped, and along with them, we built a pilot plant for solid rocket fuel, and then they refused to comply with their obligations. Negotiations are ongoing for a year and a half. In my letter to the President, I drew attention to this situation and asked that I address this issue during my visit to the United States. I do not think that we will have a better opportunity to succeed than the Americans in fulfilling our obligations. But I wanted to say more. Being at defense companies both Kiev and Dnipropetrovska and other cities led me to think that, unfortunately, there is no center in the state today to guide the development of the defence and industrial complex. And we can lose this channel, this is the source and complementing modern technology, and increasing our monetary capabilities. I also addressed the President of Ukraine on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u32	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u33	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Georgi Korneevich, well, I believe that perhaps the right path is to reduce the military force, reduce the number of troops, because the trombone in the army that exists today requires a solution. But the fates of those who have been honest all their lives have given to the armies who have served. Wouldn't that work out for us in Mariupola, for example? They destroyed part of the military town number 42, the village of Ilyichev. They took out the part, abandoned this war town. But Ilych's combination helped bring coal there for the winter, helped with the winter. They've been approached in every instance, and they're coming to the light and they're shutting down literally. I mean, answer these people's questions, who did they serve for? What were they for? To whom did they give their health and life? How is that possible? We're going to cut 40,000. People, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, people, Is it not the same fate that awaits them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u34	Well, this is one of the most complex issues related to the reform of the Armed Forces. I said that last year we were able to extinguish the explosion of discontent in the officer's environment, especially because you and I had adopted a very important Law on State Guarantee and Social Protection. We believe that it is necessary, as I have said, to indicate in this Act that reductions should be made in accordance with this Act. We will make the participation of these people much easier. You know, after that, we didn't get a chance to talk about it. But there are many problems. We have hundreds of military cities whose fate has not been resolved. We have a huge amount of property to say goodbye to. I'm sorry. These are all our processes. Those that occur in political, public life are hampering the resolution of these issues. The transfer of military towns to municipal property is very difficult. That is, we expect that as soon as things are in place and they finally begin to deal with the issues, rather than their powers, they will be dealt with in some way. Today, unfortunately, no one is working this case yet. I ask before the first Deputy Head of Government to speak on this matter, but I am pleased that a very nice girl answers from the reception room - nothing more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u35	Yes, I envy you, Georgi Korniyovich. Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Deal, discussion is 21 minutes. We've already agreed on that. That's the first one. Secondly, I would ask those who will receive the word to speak on two issues: the problem and the numbers of the Armed Forces, and the problem of shortening the terms of service. Please, Kafarsky, get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u36	Deputies! Back in 1999, we were working on a new draft of the law on general military duty and military service. Back then, the issue of reducing our army and moving to a contractual basis of service was raised. But only in the last year did the work begin in this regard. I would like to emphasize the need to do so. The world's European experience shows that this alone is a new path to the development of a high-powered and high-tech army. But there are a number of problems that we will face in society. First of all, it's the social protection of people who get released. It's very good that we're going to reduce the number of military service officers by reducing the duration of service in the army, but it's going to throw out a few people, and especially young people, out in the street when they're out of work. That's a problem, too. Let's move on. If we're talking about going on a contractual basis for military service today, I think I'd like to look particularly at Anatoly Stepanovich and Georgi Korniyovich, we need to review the military training system in higher education institutions. The system that works today is out of date. Today, it has been said that only four percent of specialists and masters go to serve in the army for the term. How many poses are left? But we need to prepare serious specialists who could at any time get to the grips of our military forces. So I think we need to review the entire military training system in universities, create additional pulpits. This will allow for further involvement of those officers who will be released from military service for retirement. I think there are other positive aspects to the adoption of this law. At last, they'll stop carrying money to military soldiers, at last they won't run to the hospital to get out of service, and we'll be able to put some order in this respect. The People's Party faction supports the adoption of two bills submitted by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u38	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, you can see how the situation in the army is inadvertently reflected in the situation in Parliament. Look, last night the recruits came to us -- salagas -- so I think they were called when I was serving -- no one's there anymore, and "grandparents" are all sitting like one, you see, working.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u39	One, I see, is sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u40	Indeed, I am convinced that the situation with the Ukrainian army during this time is just a colossal drama, because it's not an army that can protect the Ukrainian people today, but the situation is that we have to defend the army now. Because if we don't, the sense of an army is completely out of the question. I don't think any of the armies of the world have experienced such tremendous abrasion in these years, the kind of marauding that the Ukrainian army has experienced, because, frankly, there have been a colossal build-up of munitions, of armies under the western borders. To this day, several of our ministers, the generals, have actually torn everything apart. And I'm sure, the honourable minister that I trust, and I really want us to make no mistake this time, and we're canceling out, and I'm supporting the service in the army. [[I think everyone is backing this initiative today.]] I think even these few months are a lot, because there's nothing left to study in the army. I'll give you one fact. You know, when our troops left, they were thrown away in Iraq, you know, about two or three months ago, they were completely out of control, because that tire of an old rubber that had our "bobs" on there in a few days was completely scattered. As a result, I am convinced that today we simply need to take radical measures. I believe that the first civilian intelligence came into office today. I'm glad Pasko came. By the way, a member of the National Association of Writers, a patriotic man, a general who came into the humanitarian field today. I am convinced that it is necessary to use an honest, unbridled general of the army, who recently served as minister and participated in our orange revolution, the Soviets. Everything needs to be used today, absolutely. I am convinced that we need to support this, that we must support it. I think so. We're voting today. I believe that there will be joy in barracks, only so that the rest of the bullets left there will not be shot at joy. I am convinced that we must remove this disgrace from the army and from those generals who have been multiplied today. We support you, believe and think that we will be able to save the Ukrainian army from.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u41	Thank you. But they say we've had more than enough bullets. Please, Carmazin. After him, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm not in the mood to vote for the First Armoured Force Reduction Act for 40,000 people today. I don't think the minister's gonna be in the mood for that either. Why? Because the problems that need to be solved, they weren't solved when we cut and threw away 90,000 people in one year. No country in the world has ever known such a shortcut, none of which we did last year. We will continue to hold and feel for the State for a long time. So I think that those proposals that the law should be adopted only in the first reading are absolutely correct. That's the first one. The other one. I think we need to make sure that Ukraine returns face to face with its own army, so that in this budget, which is now being proposed to change, we're still writing down that everything we can increase is being directed to new weapons systems. Flying at nothing, tanks of zeros, new ones I mean modernization of old age. What, what do we do today? One person's security is much worse than our friendly neighbors. Friends, in many cases I can put the word in my paws. It has not been recorded that military officers in the law should be released in connection with the reform of the Armed Forces. This should be included in the second reading. Thus, Law 7167 can only be adopted in the first reading, only because there is a need to make changes that are serious and that still need to be calculated. The second law is not so brazen either. Why? Declining the term of service will lead to the involvement of more candidates, and perhaps a complete replacement will lead to a change of plans for school, everything else. That's the cost. We didn't get any scraps. Why not? Please give your instructions to give such things to the deputies next time. And the third. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the state of affairs at the Balakla branch of the State Department of Defence of Ukraine of the Feodosian Court of Engineering, which is the only one who can repair diesels, M-50, 7D12, 7D6 and remind that in the years of World War I, the Germans released 20 to 30 submarines. Let them be small, but let them go. And we don't have one submarine in 14 years, we haven't been able to do it yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u43	We have one submarine, but there's no, they say, battery batteries.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u44	Maybe you do, Ukraine doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u45	Ukraine, Ukraine, please, Masenko, follow him, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u46	Dear national MPs, voters, radio listeners. First of all, I want to say that these two bills need to be supported and voted, and only for the simple, banal reason that we don't need an army as necessary. But we don't need it anymore, because we don't have what it takes. When we had it, we were on our way, and now we've got it all covered. So who's going to conquer us? I'm sorry to say that on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. The vast majority of our citizens are saddened to realize that we now have no pride in our armed forces and that we have a sense of shame that we have experienced such a situation. Without a strong army, our nation is unable to speak in equal terms with others. That's why the question is: get on your knees and join NATO. I can't understand the so-called nationalist patriots who are dragging Ukraine into NATO. By this you betray your predecessors of the UPA, the UN, the bandits who fought against the Germans and the Soviet army only for Ukraine, for the interests of the Ukrainian people. WHY are you now kneeling before those who have carried out the purpose of conquering our land to turn our people into slaves? It used to be nice to see a soldier or an officer of the Soviet army. And what do these soldiers look like now, or does anyone else feel that way about the living? We now have many military strategies that review both the actions of the Supreme Command and the individual military commanders of the Great War. So I would like to put it this way, not to review it, but to do everything I can to make at least how much of the fighting from the Soviet army was our Ukrainian. The military talent of Zhukov, Vatutina, Konyeva, Rokosovsky, Vasilievsky, and others, recognized worldwide, can only be questioned by those who have waged war in their chronicles. One of the active speakers of this rostrum often emphasizes the occupied Odessa, which is still occupied, as is the case with all Ukraine. Then I must remind you that Kotovsky Odessa was released in four hours because it was the Red Army. That's the army we should have. And who we now have is going to serve in the army, those who can't redeem themselves, and if we're going to serve in the army, including the children of the President and the ministers and the commanders, we're going to be free of occupation and Odessa and all of Ukraine. And in conclusion, I wanted to tell the minister that there's a Poznań factory in Poltava that manufactures war goods, orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u47	Yes, please, Manchulenko, prepare the Bandurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u48	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I have been asking myself one question for the last few years. When is the ultimate goal of reducing the number of Armed Forces, to what numbers do we have to get the number of Armed Forces to finally stop at some constant? So far, I can't get a proper answer from either military experts or military intelligence or military science. What is the final number of the Armed Forces? The strategic defense bulletin, which is so much talked about, it gives a figure of 200,000, imagine, without giving any serious argument that this figure should be the same. Should we, then, continue to do so? This attitude towards reforming the Armed Forces has led me to some historical parallels between the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Provincial Army, which will be a national militia. We all know what that led to. Of course, there is another historical situation. But there are dangers and challenges. It's Iraq, it's the Balkans, it's the North Caucasus, it's an asymmetric threat, it's a fight against terrorism. What emphasis do we have on the construction of the Armed Forces, which types and types of Armed Forces should be primarily financed? Unfortunately, there are no answers to these questions. Examples show that we are one of the largest armies in Europe. But nobody's saying that those countries that they call are Britain, France that have a nuclear shield, other countries, and Germany, are NATO members. They're members of a collective security system, which we're just declaring intentions that we don't know if we're going to be a member of a collective security system. Now it's different. The ratio of the fighting component to the securing component. Look at what's proposed at the end of the year -- 180,000 military and 65,000 civilian. Who, then, in the army will ensure the integrity of our borders, the territorial integrity? Civilians? Another question that is not answered. Regarding the term of service. Yes, we can say that we need to shorten the term of service. But once again, those countries that call this are NATO countries. Can we prepare an army specialty in a year? Tell me who served in the army. Can you prepare for the year of the paratrooper? You can't. Therefore, if such a reduction is to be made, it is necessary to move on to the fact that they should be prepared for the contract. I can't support the first bill, and the second bill requires further detailed work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u49	Yes, please, Bandurka, follow him Rabbit. The John Hare is meant.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u50	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The law on general military duty is regularly considered. In 92, the first law was passed, and then in 95, in 96, in the Constitution they wrote down the corresponding norms, in 99, so the Supreme Council keeps paying attention to this problem. But the most radical and constructive are the suggestions that are being considered today, certainly need to be supported. And the faction of Ukraine will vote in favour of these bills. I wanted to draw your attention in general in the context of the issue under consideration to the problem of demilitarization of our state. We are a militarized state in Europe. We're already in shape, and I'm sure everyone who can wear it is still at home. Department of Defense, Ministry of Emergency Situations, Ministry of Internal Affairs, Security Service, State Border Service, State Customs, State Tax Administration, Rail Transport, Civil Aviation. maritime annual transport, the Department of Execution, the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the State Department of Nature, the Field Service of Fingers in Hands, will not be able to count everything that is in shape. Add public organizations, Cossacks, fishermen and hunters. Well, the Ministry of Education and Deputies, and doctors, if they dress, will be a completely militarized state. We have generals of justice, militia, internal services, military service, tax police, the Armed Forces, security, Cossacks and other generals. And it would certainly be advisable for the President to review the assignment of those titles that were assigned to people who were not associated with the certified militarized service, that is, either military personnel, or militias, or BSS, when people received 100 positions of generality overnight. This is certainly in the context of our building civil society, the democratic state, the issue of demilitarization, which needs to be addressed by both the President and the government and the Parliament. And I wanted to go to the secretary of defense with a request and an offer: financing repairs, reconstructions, armored equipment at his factory. Malisheva makes a separate budget line, because this is the military-technical provision of our Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u52	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. It's about reducing the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces. We're told that we have to reduce the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces because we have to get to the optimum level, to the optimum number. And this optimal number is based on standards for European countries. And they say we have to cut 40,000 this year, and we're going to leave 245,000 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by the end of December this year. But here MP Manculenko said that when we talk about the number of European Armed Forces, they're all NATO members, they're really in a collective security system and there's a nuclear umbrella and a lot of other umbrellas over them. That's why it's clear. Today, in fact, we are not asking the question that we should become NATO members. And you would have to ask that question, then you could say that we're shortening our Armed Forces because we want to get into that system and we're compensating for that shortcut. However, everyone acts silently as if there is no such strategic goal. If there is no strategic goal, then why shorten the Ukrainian Armed Forces? Let's speak frankly. I believe that the process of reducing the Ukrainian Armed Forces needs to be addressed in the background of other problems, such as joining NATO, such as the restocking of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and many more. That's exactly the way I would like us to look at this problem. If we're talking about military equipment, we don't hear any words about it again, but we should be very clear that this kind of sum is going to be allocated to these processes. Then, I'd like to see more clearly the structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces: would we have yet to have a national guard, which, thoughtlessly in this Supreme Council Hall, we cut down, and everyone knew that these were our superior military units, which were built on signs of patriotism and on high military professionalism. Once again, we're setting up this problem. So let us, honourable national MPs, take note of the suggestion that these bills should be supplemented by a section on State guarantees for the social protection of military personnel released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Just to be the word "reforming." Then they will be socially bound to a specific legal basis and to a specific social security system. If that word does not exist, there will be no place to be attached, and it will be simply the destruction of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. That's why I want you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u53	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Please, Cherniak, one minute. And the miner. Cherniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u54	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Shortening the Armed Forces can't be arbitrary. The objective criterion for the reduction of the Armed Forces should be their adequacy to threats and challenges. The shortening of the Armed Forces should be accompanied, first, by changes to military doctrine in the direction of addressing the issue of the number and quality of the Armed Forces and the creation of a collective security system. It's different. About the modernization of the Armed Forces. We need mobile, high-tech, unmanned forces to act. And the third. Harmonization of the Armed Forces in the direction of the positional ratios. When these issues are resolved, then it will be clear what the number and quality of the Armed Forces is needed by Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u55	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, everyone's writing, please, Greenie's microphone. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u56	Eugene Gorenik. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we have a specific question to discuss and you, as chairman, should ensure that there is no discussion of the military parts of the times of the waiting and subduing Crimea that your fellow party is engaged in. Of course, you could think of the brazen look of the Soviet army, those fighters that Marshal Zhukov was driving under Korsun-Shevchenkovsky. Unfortunately, they will not be able to pass through the 9th of May parade because almost everyone died. And as for the modern Ukrainian army, of course we have to go to modern standards, but not to break wood. I support Karmazin and Manchulenka's proposal for the first draft in the first reading, although, by adopting the budget, they could provide social security for those military personnel. As for the second bill, we have to provide a general military.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u57	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. The discussion is over. Get ready, we'll vote. Domanski with the motive of the vote, a minute. Prepare for the vote. I invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear comrades! Here's the question: Some say "slow-down." Let's think about it, the main thing is to cut down on why. We are moving towards the number of Armed Forces that will ensure the transfer of the State from peaceful to military time and the rapid deployment of troops in the event of war. And the amount that is in peacetime will accomplish their 2 main tasks. That's why the calculations. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. They are accounted for, weighed and correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! Be careful. I am voting on the first reading on the basis of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act 2005. [[Registration number 7167]] Please vote. [[17:10:37]] For 352 Dear colleagues! Be careful. We have the opportunity to accept it as a whole. I'll read it. Wait, please. I'm reading a proposal here on behalf of the committee. To complement the second paragraph: "To bring the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the law approved by this law to comply with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act of 15 June 2004 on State guarantees of social service workers who are released from service in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and their family members". [[Pay Attention]] With this addition, accept as law. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. You said very correctly that only this supplement could be voted on. This is the first time. But there's still a task to be given here, even though the Ministry of Finance and the Committee of Budgets protocol, when they change the Law on the State Budget, which is now, literally, we're going to have to deal with it in a week, so that these requirements will be taken into account, because this is going to be a serious copy of what we're preparing right now. Let us now give a protocol commission and then vote on the second reading as a whole so that it does not just hang out, but is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u61	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You're absolutely right about protocol, we're giving it to you. But remember, this is just a reminder that such a law is in force. Such a law must be carried out without a protocol commission. We are simply stressing once again that it must be done, please, Noshchenko, on the basis of the vote and that we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u62	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. I'm on my way. Adam Ivanovich, how is it possible, first of all, in the bill, when 87 people were asked to give 3 minutes or 4 to the case? I, for example, cannot exercise my right today, and I have an electoral order to speak, to ask the minister the question. I can't do this all day, because your car always puts our MP group on the 8th, the 9th, the 10th, and you give 3 minutes. I think you understand what this is about. And with regard to today's vote, I absolutely declare that this Act has not been calculated by the Committee of Budgets, and the Ministry of Finance has not given a specific figure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u63	Thank you. Mikola Petrovich, first of all, it's not my car. Not my car, it's one of the most interesting inventions of our cybernetics -- the "Council" system that works outside our country. Taking into account this proposal, which I have mentioned, I am voting on the adoption of the Law as a whole as the Law. Please vote. [[17:14:15]] For 349 The law is passed. Yes. Dear colleagues, we will now be determined by the following laws. Laws amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service, regarding periods of military service. We had three bills: 7058, 7058-1, 7058-3. Bills 7058 and 7058-1 were written by national deputies Homutinnik and Gavrish, and they withdrew and proposed to support the Bill of President 7058-3. That's why I put, according to the regulation, a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on General Military Duty and Military Service on periods of military service. Registration number 7058-3. Please vote. [[17:15:32]] For 353 Dear colleagues, be careful. We accepted it in the first reading. The Professional Committee proposes that it be accepted as a whole with such refinements. Paragraph three of paragraph two is purely technical, let's say. And another clarification. Paragraph two, paragraph three, inserting it in such an edition. Listen, please. "The act of purgatory of the second paragraph of this Act extends to citizens who are called to term military service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations formed in accordance with Ukraine's laws, starting with the 2004 autumn appeal." We realized that we're shortening our service from the 2004 fall appeal because we don't have the law when it enters. Dear colleagues, today we have two appeals: spring and autumn. It is suggested that the shortening of the terms of service be from the fall appeal this year. The Ministry of Defense supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u64	From the fall appeal last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u65	Since last year's 2004 appeal, last year. With this amendment, I put the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[17:17:21]] For 367 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, let's go to the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 54, Communist - 55, "Ukraine" - 42, National Party - 28, Socialist - 27, Block Timoshenko - 21, "The One Ukraine" - 19, Social Democrats - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 13, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, "Will of the People" - 11, "Deminicatives" - 14, "Soyuz - 11, "Centre" - 10, "NDP-Republic" - 9, "Postfactional - 15. Dear colleagues, let's probably really welcome our military personnel with what is passed, and ask them to respond accordingly today within the framework of the military statutes that we have adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u66	I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the national deputies. Today, at least half a million people will be raised for the health of the deputies and the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, be careful. Dear colleagues, we need to consider with you the question that we have come up with right now. I'll let you know what this is about. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, and then at the meeting of factions and MPs with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it was about changing our schedule of work. The Cabinet of Ministers promises that on March 21st, a draft Act will be submitted to the Supreme Council to amend the State Budget for 2005 and other legislative acts. In view of the need for these laws, if they support the approval of the Supreme Council, to take effect from the second quarter, that is, April 1, we need to work in a different way than we planned. Because according to our plan of work, you and I are going to work in the districts next week, and the next week we're going to work in committees, groups and factions, which is tomorrow we're going to finish meetings and we're going to work in districts and committees. Accordingly, the next meeting on what we have now is due to take place in April. So, Your Honor, I'd like to suggest to you that we make a change to the Supreme Council decree on the calendar plan for the seventh session of the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council. Listen, please, what is proposed is what has been agreed with the faction leaders and groups in the presence of the Prime Minister to work for committees, factions and groups from March 21 to 25. Not in the districts, as is currently planned, but that next week we should be working on committees, factions and groups. The factions and groups with Thursday’s next number will be 24 to hold 24 sessions to discuss the problems involved in making changes to the State Budget. And the week of March 28 is April 1st, not working on the committees as it is now, but working in the districts. Do you understand the situation? So next week we're working on committees, factions and groups, we're working in a session mode on Thursday, we're looking at changes to the 2005 State Budget, and we're not looking at any more questions, just budget issues if it comes up on March 21. And the Cabinet of Ministers is promising us that. And then a week after that, we'll be working in the districts. Do you understand the offer? Yeah, I can see the question. Please sign up, sign up. Yes, let us give five minutes of suggestions. Katchure, follow by Gračov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u68	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I don't think there's much to convince. We all understand how we need to make changes to the budget, because there, first of all, social articles are higher pensions and higher wages. And I would like to stress in particular that the increase in wage in the budget area is with the restoration of inter-employment ratios. I have a motion for a vote. Of course, a quarter is a very concise term to be prepared to consider the budget in the first and perhaps in the second reading. This means that Tuesday and Wednesday will be the first time that the deputies in their factions have been thoroughly familiar with the proposals and have had the opportunity to make specific proposals to the budget on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u69	Yes, please, Grachev. After him, Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Player, Company faction. First of all, two days to study such a serious document is probably not enough. Secondly, you said if the 21st did. What if he doesn't? That's why. What, are we gonna write this down? I ask that you pass the word to Valentine Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u71	Please, 34 seconds to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u72	Thank you. I understand everything, Adam Ivanovich and respected colleagues, but how much will we abuse the Rules? Three draft decrees entered at the same time. What kind of fire is this? To what time are we, the Supreme Council, going to be grooming us for our own interests? In this case, the regulatory committee did not consider these draft regulations, so it can't be that easy to change the work schedule that we approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u73	Yes, please, Turmanov, follow him Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u74	Adam Ivanovich, please report to Bronnnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u75	Bronnikov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u76	Respectable colleagues. Bronnikov, Zaporozhye district, "Regions" faction. I fully agree with what Mr. Matveyev, Head of the Regulatory Committee, has just said. But I would like to add that there is a procedure for the consideration of the budget. We must consider it in committees, adopt it on first reading, discuss it on the ground. We see what social benefits we need to see that local budgets have the means to do so. We're people working with districts. Afterwards, comments should be made to the Budget Committee and discussed on second reading. There are no questions about what needs to be introduced from April 1st. But now it is said that the ball on the side of the Government must give it to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u77	Please, Zarubinsky. He's got Belarus on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u79	Please, Vashtuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Of course, the idea is great, and we need to support the government, especially in its social aspirations to increase payments, but the ideal option was not until Monday, but at least tomorrow, so that we can read it on the weekends, so that we can get to Tuesday and Wednesday, all the committees in the field, so that we can understand clearly which sectors from which development systems are going to be cut down to fill the social part of the budget. And the last. Whether it will be clearly stated in the decree, and we would like it to be written that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u81	Yes, please, Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u82	Oleg Belarus. Please give the floor to the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, National Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u83	Please, Sergei Sassa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u84	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm authorized to make a statement that a decision had been taken at the Cabinet meeting, under which the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget of Ukraine should be submitted to the Supreme Council on 21 March. What about the procedure? I wanted to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee to rule 3.2. Part 3, which states that "the adoption of decisions on procedural and organizational matters, the work of the Supreme Council, aimed at a single deviation from the provisions laid down in the Rules of Procedure, the possibility of which is set out in the Rules, shall be taken by a majority of the votes without being included in the agenda and without."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u85	Yes, please, Your Honor, calm down. We'll hear from you. Now we'll listen to the budget committee's representative. I don't know, the first time I saw Konovaluk's hand, he was the first deputy. Yeah? Please, Konovaluk, microphone, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u86	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we really had a very lively discussion on this issue yesterday, and members of the committee said unanimously that we should keep the budget review procedure, because the government would only consider the draft amendments to this law on Saturday at the meeting. But the government will also propose to the Supreme Council a series of changes to other legislation -- both taxes and tax benefits. So the position that was expressed by the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, it's really that next week we would do work on the committees, get a budget, take a good look, the deputies would be able to plan and prepare proposals and corrections. Thursday was considered. But the day we look at the budget in the first, second reading and accept it as a whole, I don't think we can. And the government is still planning to make the count by April 1st at the beginning of the second quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u87	Please, Your Honor, we've run out of time. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Let's do that. I'll just give it a minute. Dear colleagues! I understand that we can talk to you before today's session day is over. We need to make a decision. So please, for the reasons of the vote, I will give Asadchev, Shurmi and Noshenko, and we will finish that. Please, Assadchev, Shurma, Noshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u88	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, dear friends! The fact is that we are now in a certain conflict with the budget because we cannot use the Budget Code because it requires a new budget procedure. If we use the procedure of the ordinary law, we will not invest in the terms proposed by the government. So it would be better if we approved a schedule of work on this budget, so that the MP would know clearly how much time he has to read it, give proposals, how much time on the committee to work out, and already, taking into account this graph, and change the work schedule of the Supreme Council. Otherwise, we're doing everything blindly now, not knowing what the budget plan is going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u89	Please, Shurma. We're voting for him, Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u90	Igor Šurma. So that we don't work blindly and explain to you how to work, please pass on the word Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u91	Explain, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Indeed, so that we do not work in principle today: the worse it is, the better it will probably be to support the proposal made by the Conciliation Council, to work on the committees on Tuesday, Wednesday. Should the government fulfill its obligations and pass the law to us, on Thursday we should vote on a bill on changes to the State Budget, if they deserve to be voted on, and on Thursday we should define ourselves or vote as a whole as a law, or decide another day when we will meet again after the adoption of the first reading, and this must be done by April 1, so that our pensioners will not suffer and vote in the second reading and in general as the Law. But we'll know that on March 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u93	Please, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u94	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. MP, Democratic Ukraine, 160th constituency. Adam Ivanovich, even today you've made a mistake, we're going to discuss, not the problem of the 2005 budget, but the draft law on amending the budget, whether it's a new budget, or whether it's a change -- there's still a discussion going on. I propose that if the government makes an introduction on Monday, the starting point is to give the people's MP or the MPs or the factions the opportunity to introduce the law in the first reading. And if it's a new budget, it's a budget submission. It's probably going to be a budget introduction. So it is Tuesday — the first reading — that is, Friday — that is to say, it can be voted on as a whole. The Committee on Budgets yesterday adopted such an agreed decision without voting that we are ready to work for 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u95	Thank you for your time. Put your hands down, for there will be no end of the land. Listen, please. Let's sum up what we said. Yes. There were three bills, three bills. But I don't see in these three bills any of them, the idea that we discussed with the faction leaders and groups and agreed with the prime minister, so I proposed this kind of algorithm of work, that's the first. Second, dear colleagues, no one tells you that on Thursday we have to accept the budget with you. On Thursday, we will begin our consideration of the Budget. If we conclude that we can take it as a whole on Thursday as a change to the State Budget, the will of the Supreme Council. If we find out that we need another one or two or three days -- we're going to have another week and we're going to be able to make a decision Thursday to hold another additional plenary session for the final adoption of the budget. So I don't see, my dear colleagues, any warning that we're required to do this on Thursday. This will depend on our willingness with you, primarily on the work of the Budget Committee. So, with your permission, be careful, with your permission, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree that you and I work with you on committees, factions and groups on March 21st to 25th. On March 24, a plenary session was held to discuss issues related to changes to the State Budget. And on March 28th, April 1st, they worked in the districts. Please vote in favour. [[17:35:57]] For 330. Thank you, 330. Order accepted. Once again, my dear colleagues, because this voice is not in any of the three drafts of the proposal that we voted for, in either of the three. I sounded what we agreed on, Monday, with the leaders of the Conciliation Council. Once again, next week we're not working in the districts as planned, but next week we're working on committees, factions and groups, and Thursday we're having an additional meeting. The next week that we were going to work on the committees, we're going to work in the districts. Do you understand? That's it, the question's over. Here we go to the draft Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code, registration number 1331. Third reading. Let's mobilize. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. How long have you been here? Five minutes for the report, and we'll be on the same page.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u96	Adam Ivanovich, they've been working on him for ten years and give me at least seven or eight minutes so I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u97	Seven minutes. Give me ten minutes, or ten years, but Basil Vasilovich will be in at seven. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues. Today we have the opportunity to complete more than a ten-year copy of the work of many scientists, the practice of creating a legal basis for the implementation of administrative justice in Ukraine. Its purpose is to ensure that a person’s rights are protected from violations of authority. In accordance with the Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine, the administrative courts should start their activities this year. The draft Administrative Procedure Code was approved in the second reading of July 1, 2004, and 401 deputies voted in favour. As in our first reading, no vote was cast against the bill. The committee worked on the third reading of the general situation, the position on the jurisdiction of the administrative courts, the consideration of election disputes, and the final and transitional positions. First of all, it is suggested that the code name be changed. An administrative procedural code named can be identified with an administrative code, which is also under consideration in our committee, which may pose some problems in applying the Administrative Code by the appropriate authorities. Therefore, according to members of the committee, the title of the Code of Administrative Justice is more accurate and clearly reflected in the subject matter of the code. In time, other procedural codes can be described as such. The third reading project clarified the definition of certain principles of administrative litigation. In particular, the principle of the rule of law and the principle of legality. In line with European standards, criteria have been introduced to assess decisions of actions or omissions by the administrative court of public authorities and local authorities. The jurisdiction of the administrative courts has been more clearly defined. In particular, there are public legal disputes that do not belong to the jurisdiction of the administrative courts. When it comes to the Constitutional Court and other disputes. The committee solved the problem of delimiting the jurisdiction of administrative and commercial courts. All public-law disputes, including those involving legal persons, should be decided by administrative courts. However, temporarily for the period of the establishment of administrative courts in the household courts, it is proposed that cases arising from the exercise by public authorities of authority regarding the exercise of control and supervision of the economic activities of legal persons should be dropped. The committee was unable to decide on the time after which these cases could be referred to administrative courts. It will be one year, three or five, as proposed by individual members of the committee, that question may be resolved by voting on the corresponding proposals — proposals 56, 57, and 58 on page 155-156, note this. Next. The procedure for the resolution of electoral disputes is determined by considering the novelties of electoral legislation and its application. The number of articles that regulate the features of the resolution of election disputes has increased. As a result, they ceased to be cumbersome. It is more rational to determine the subjectivity of electoral disputes. Based on the rapidity of the electoral process and the demands of the new electoral laws, a two-instance system for the resolution of electoral disputes has been introduced in the first and the appeal institutions. Only the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court to charge the election results and to revoke the registration of the presidential candidate, as approved in the first instance, is final. They can't be accused. That is, the Supreme Administrative Court. More carefully worked on the final and transitional positions, it is determined that the Code of Administrative Judiciality takes effect on September 1, 2005. This term, in our view, is enough to create appeal courts. At the same time as the Code of Administrative Justice, the new Civil Procedure Code, adopted a year ago, takes effect. A mechanism has been established for the gradual transfer of administrative jurisdiction from the general and commercial courts to the administrative courts in accordance with the stages of the establishment of administrative courts and the staffing of judges. Finally, representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Economic Court, the Central Electoral Commission, the Centre for Political Reform participated in the preparation of the project for the third reading. And thank them so much for that. In addition, it should be noted that the draft codex was an expert in the Council of Europe and received the highest marks. The adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice will complete the drafting of the legislative framework for the introduction of the European model administratively in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. I bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u99	Thank you, you see. Yes, dear colleagues, you have listened to the information. Now, now. I see they want to make a statement. Sign up, three minutes. Get in, get in, you'll get in, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Please show me. Kosov, behind him, Onitchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u100	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich and no less respectable Basil Vasilovich! This morning, I have before me this vast document, 163 pages, a sea of suggestions and additions. I have no reason not to trust those serious authors who are listed here, but look at the clock: 16 minutes left. This is the second reading of such a serious document. If I were you, Vasil Vasilovich, I wouldn't have allowed myself as such, well, a legal science light so hastyly accept this document, which will apply to each of us, and including me as a national deputy, because to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u101	Thank you, Mr. Michael, for the high evaluation of this document. I'd like to say that. I already said we've been working on this project for about 10 years. He went through our first reading here in the hall and the second. Now it's about a few, there's not a lot of amendments, we basically made, look, they agreed to the amendments, but there's one or two principles of amendment. I think Mikola Vasilovich will put her to the vote now. Everything else is done with the precision of the Swiss watch. So this allows us to vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u102	Please, Anitchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u103	Vladimir Anishuk, the Communist faction. I would like to give the floor to my colleague, George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u104	Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u105	George Ponomarenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Vassili Vasilevich, your 61th amendment. You're proposing in the Political Parties Act to replace the Supreme Court with a district administrative court, so any district administrative court can ban a party. I'm sure at such an event in the West, they're going to ban parties that they're not comfortable with. How do you understand that?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u106	On the contrary, we are strengthening the role of court defence in political parties, because today the Supreme Court can actually, at the first instance, consider this case and close a party -- we won't call it. We are already creating a procedure which: that the local court first, then, if possible, can be sued, to the Court of Appeal, then to the Supreme Administrative Court, and the final decision can be taken by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. It's not election stuff that needs to be decided in a day, in two, in three. That's why we've been discussing this problem, and we've actually made a unanimous decision that's only for the political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u107	Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u108	Dear Vasily Vasilyevich, indeed, this law is very much needed. And the committee, and personally you've done a lot. But yesterday, parliamentary hearings showed that even the most perfect laws could not be implemented until funding was available. That is why it may not seem appropriate, but I think it is timely. We must use you as a committee to make this budget a budget for the judiciary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u109	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich, for such a clear position. In fact, if there is no funding, we will not create administrative courts, first of all, appeals, because. The higher one also needs to be staffed. Without that and without language, we cannot speak of reliable protection for both legal persons and rights, as well as for civil liberties.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u110	Thank you. Now I'm going to get Stratovich out of the procedure. But before that, Vasil Vasilovich, I don't really agree with you, because we are. If it's about the parties, we'll get into a fight. There is a law on political parties that states that the Supreme Court decides this matter. Now we're going to introduce another rule in the code, and who's going to be the higher law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u111	Adam Ivanovich, the point is that we are entrusting the Cabinet of Ministers in the Final Positions to develop changes to the Law on Political Parties and other laws. There's a deadline. I mean, there'll be no "forks" and no contradiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u112	Well, when we get to the vote, we'll stop here. Please, Stratovic, from the procedure and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u113	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! Stretovich, Our Ukraine, Christian Democratic Union. In general, the Rules stipulate that a bill should be distributed in two weeks before the second reading. We got used to working like this yesterday. As a result, the document, which will be followed by the fate of the people to be overlooked, will be accepted in a hurry of 10 minutes before the 18th hour. That's the first one. This violates the MP's right. I ask my colleagues to consider this situation. The other one. I didn't get a chance to speak at parliamentary hearings yesterday, but I was making an amendment, and it's not in the table, until the 20th article on the jurisdiction of military courts in administrative matters. It's very topical today, and we haven't included it, it's not there, because maybe it's not convenient for the authors or members of the committee, so it's not included at all. With these motives, I urge my colleagues not to vote in favour of adopting this code in haste, but in two weeks to come back and put all the dots over "and." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u114	Please, Bandur of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! There'll be a lot of emotions. The code has to be adopted. He gave it up. And there is no limit to improvement. I have only one comment, Vasil Vasilovich, this is amendment 18 of People's Deputies Onichuka, paragraph four: "The matters arising from the exercise of authority over the exercise of control and supervision of economic activity must be dealt with by administrative courts." It's breaking the whole system. Tax disputes will be considered. You get me, don't you? I suggest we turn it off. I'll vote for the rest. And the Chairman's amendment: one year Transitional positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u116	I thought Mikola Vasilovich was going to raise this amendment, this position. The point is, indeed, it is the most principled, most pressing issue in this codex, although all positions are important. The point is that all disputes involving legal persons, citizens with public authorities, exercise control and supervision, transfer from domestic courts to administrative courts. The position of the committee, what does this have to do with why? This is about the administrative relationship between a citizen and the authorities of the state. It's an unequal civil-law relationship. So the committee supported that position. But since there is such an amendment, it must be voted for. If it passes in this room, please; if it does not, then another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! First. I'm a little relaxed, and we're already on to something. We have a third reading. There's an amendment, a vote. But before that, I'll give Kuzmuku my word. And the others. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Kuzmuk's microphone, then let's move on to the article vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u118	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! As we can see, there are many disagreements in this most important bill. And I'm back from the military court issue. Today we have considered two laws and adopted both the number and the change in military service, and who will protect and solve these problems other than military courts? In nine countries of the world, there are our contingents, who will do and protect them? The committee is persistently avoiding this issue, and I urge and ask the question: If there are no military courts, why vote today?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u119	Alexander Ivanovich, well, you know how much I respect you, but let's not confuse God's gift with an egg. The point is that today, in accordance with article 3, chapter 31 of the Civil Procedure Code, raise, see, these disputes are being dealt with by civil courts, not by military courts. The point is that we're removing this section completely. And it's not just this chapter, chapter of the Civil Code, that we're handing it over to the administrative courts, and that's why we're proposing that these two codes should be put into effect on the same day, that's from September 1st of this year, on the same day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u120	Yes. Your Honor, let's move on to the third reading procedure. I call on the national MPs: who among you made the proposals are not included, and you insist on discussing them. Yes, I can see that. Any other national MPs? Yes, please, the Onechuck microphone. Mikola Vasilovich, please call the correct number and we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear Chief, I would like to thank Alexander Markovich Bandurk for highlighting the importance of my amendment and explaining its contents. Dear colleagues, if the Administrative and Procedural Code is adopted today, and I hope that it will be voted on, all disputes, including the participation of farm subjects, which is now the jurisdiction of the domestic courts, will be brought before the administrative courts. This is all because, unfortunately, for today we have only nine judges of the Supreme Administrative Court and no judge, and no room of the administrative court, unfortunately, we don't have. My proposal, therefore, is to leave the right of the courts at this stage to deal with the issue of supervision and control of economic activity. In particular, tax disputes, customs, antitrust disputes, and so forth. Administrative courts will appear, they will confirm their effectiveness, and then we will hand over the authority. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, I repeat: I will give the floor only to those who are unaccounted for, and everyone else will not have a word. Please wait for motivation and so on. So once again, this is our third reading. What Minist’s view on this matter is. _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to stress that the Code of Administrative Justice is essential. It must become the legal basis, first of all, for the activities of the administrative courts to deal with public-law disputes. With regard to the seventh paragraph of the Code’s Final Provisions, which has to set a time limit for disputes, for the exercise of authority or for the exercise of control and supervision of economic activity, there is a proposal to support amendment 57 by Vasil Vasilovič Onopenko, who sets a three-year term during which this category of cases should remain with the courts of commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to say one more sentence here, it's written here because there's no author of the legislative initiative, but he's gone to the Chief -- this is Sergey the Headman, who says that if he's not in the room, he's bound to vote on his proposal, where he's proposing this term, which we're talking about, we're going to take up to one year. And now we're going to be determined by the motivation of the vote. Sirenko, and we'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, this is about public-law relations. This is a charge of an act of taxation. Where's the farming? There's no farming here. There are public-law relations here and they have to be referred to administrative courts. If the Administrative Court isn't here yet, then the Chief of Staff is right to propose one year. A year later, the administrative courts will work and deal with these cases normally. I ask you to support the Chairman's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u125	Please, Onechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to you. Now there's been a lot of information on the various amendments. But once again, it is clear that the chairman will put to the vote Amendment 18, the content of which is to leave the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian courts of commerce to dispute, public-law disputes, if this is the case with respect to customs, taxes, competitors and others, i.e. disputes that will be the main issue of the subjects of economic activity. Taking advantage of the opportunity that I still have time, I also want to thank all of you, Vasil Vasilovich, who worked with us as committee advisors, members of working groups for working together on the text of the Administrative and Procedural Code. Thank you for your attention. Once again, I stress that this is a very important amendment, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u127	Yeah, that's it. Dear colleagues, so be careful, I'm voting for Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk's 18th amendment. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u128	The committee did not support this amendment, and we said for what reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u129	Right. But it's a member of your committee. I'd like to make a statement. Amendment number 18. [[17:59:07]] For-129 Next. Dear colleagues, be careful. We've just heard two suggestions with you: one of them is the National Deputy Sergei the Chief, which is the 50th Amendment on the basis that the courts of the household should consider the relevant issues in the course of the year before the establishment of the administrative courts. The second amendment 57, if I'm not mistaken, is the National Deputy Onopenka, who proposes this term three years. The Ministry of Justice has also supported three years. So in order of coming, I'm going to put it to a vote. The amendment by Sergey Number 50, which deals with the issue of administrative jurisdiction, is to be considered by the courts for just one year. Please vote. [[18:00:19]] For 165 Not supported. I'll put it to a vote. Yes, Onopenko, please argue, please, your amendment, we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, we have three possibilities: a year, three, and five. [[I offered.]] I think three years is such a good time to form administrative justice courts. So please support my amendment, this is the optimal term.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the amendment of Onopenka, the 57th Amendment on the three-year deadline for the transfer of these cases. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:01:17]] For 105 Not supported, so the previous edition remains. What's the term in the previous edition?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u132	No, there is still an amendment by Nikola Vasilovich Onichuk, who proposes five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u133	Yes, the five - year amendment of Oneichuk, please identify yourself. [[18:01:45]] For-103 Also not accepted. Sirenka, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! If, by rating, the Chairman's amendment has the highest number of votes, let's vote it again. I suggest we put the Chairman's amendment to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u135	Yes, I'm voting on the Chairman's amendment for one year. Please vote. [[18:02:27]] For 204 Dear colleagues, let's vote for two years. I've been making an offer for two years. Please support this proposal. Vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[18:02:52]] For 208 Yes, Your Honor, calm down. Yeah, wait, I'm going first. Vasil Vasilovich, would you please tell me what standard is now in place? Nine months. Here you are, fellow believers, be careful, be careful! Dear colleagues, be careful! If we don't support any of these proposals right now, there's a rule that we've already voted for. A nine - month norm has been voted. Will we continue to consider whether nine months remain? I'm going to vote again. Once again, if we do not accept any changes now, it will be nine months. If we take it, it'll be something else. Once again, let's vote in two years. Please vote. In two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, support me. We still have to make a decision. [[18:04:21]] For-167 There's nine months left. So, what other amendments are out of the question? Wait, I'll fix it first. Onechuk, is it yours? Please, it's Onitchuk's microphone. What amendment is not included?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make a compromise offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u138	Take it off, please. Turn off the microphone. I repeat: Whose amendment is not counted? Are all the amendments taken into account? Now, please, Ponomarenko, the microphone. Then Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u139	I propose, I have already said, Adam Ivanovich, to delete the third paragraph of article 61 of the amendment in the law. Amendments to the Law on Political Parties on Prohibition and Others. The Supreme Court of Transfer to District Administrative Courts. Remove this amendment and we'll vote on part three.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, here is the vast majority of political party leaders who are over 100 already. In the Political Parties Act, we have also discussed with you for a long time and concluded that these issues are only being dealt with by the Supreme Court. Let us uphold this standard so that we can accept this code at all. I am voting on the proposal to rule out this amendment that political parties have been banned by district courts or how it is written. Yeah. Please vote against this amendment. Vote. [[6:06:25]] For 246 A decision has been made. Once again, I stress what we voted for. Now the laws on political parties, the political party has the right to ban only the Supreme Court. It was suggested that it should start with a city, a district, and go long enough and far. All the other amendments are included. That's why I'm betting. I'm sorry. I promised Rephat Chubarov a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u141	Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. I'm talking to all my colleagues. Adam Ivanovich, and thank you personally, because you understand that if we don't vote for these terms, two or three steps, the law will practically not work. Everyone realizes that 27 first - instance courts plus nine higher administrative courts will not be created, courts will not be chosen, and so on in nine months. So please, Adam Ivanovich and all of our colleagues, let's vote again for at least two years, at least two years, if not three.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u142	Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! I still want you to come to this question in an extremely responsible manner. If we don't now set a deadline for the transmission of these disputes, in fact the Administrative Code will not work and not only it will not work, the Civil Procedure Code will not work. We put in the Civil Procedure Code the best novels that could be made. A lot of complaints just won't come from the judges to us all with you, solve a number of problems, that's two, you can't break them at all. And in that year, or two, you know, three or five, we're jamming the whole process today, and it's 10 years of work, because we can't figure it out. Well, we can't do a year, let's do 2 years, more optimally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u144	Vasil Vasilovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, be careful, I now suggest we proceed as follows: let's conduct two ratings: a year and Two, and then that date that gets more votes -- we're going to vote it out. Do you have a deal? Who's to make one year? Please vote. The rating vote. [[18:09:03]] For-147 Who's in charge of two years? The rating vote. Please vote. [[18:09:22]] For-140. Who for 3 years, once again the rating vote [[18:09:42]] For 178. Dear colleagues, trust my monitor, 178 votes. It means: One year: 147 votes; two years: 140 votes; three years: 178 votes. So I'm in that order of ratings and I'm going to put it to a vote. The highest number of votes reached was three years. Who's up for three years?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u145	Let's support, fellows of honor, all of us. It's an optimal term. "Our Ukraine," support! [[18:10:25]] For 184 Not accepted. Who for two years, please vote. Right, 147. Who for one year, 147 votes. Vote. [[18:10:55]] For 207 Who for two years. Vote. [[18:11:16]] For 104 Dear colleagues, 207 - one year, 184 - three years, 104 - two years. I'm betting one more year, and we're done here. Take down the vote. Please, I'll give the two lawyers Mussians and Gavrish and we'll vote. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not just one year to continue for a year with the right of the court to deal with these issues of taxation, of a tax dispute. The point is that for one year with the right to prolongation. If these courts are not able to produce them in one year at a time, the term will be extended. We'll just vote and continue. It's a very flexible scheme. So please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u147	Yes, please, Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u148	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I'll have a proposal for a procedure to deal with this issue. Ivan Stepanovich, sitting on your chair, once said a famous phrase, "You don't have to push if it doesn't climb." We have a situation where there are a whole series of issues that are not agreed upon. So I propose that we hold a consultation between the faction leaders and the parliamentary groups on the adoption of a general Administrative and Procedural Code, because we will now vote endlessly on issues that are not voted in the session room, and vote on 24 numbers at the time of the state budget vote in accordance with the plan that we have adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-17-m1.u149	Thank you. That's one option. But, dear fellows, calm down. I'm telling you what we're gonna do next. I'm going to put to the vote again the term that won the largest number of votes. If we don't confirm it, there's going to be an active rule that's already been voted on for nine months, and then I'm going to put it to the vote as a whole. That's what we're going to make, and that's what we're going to make, your will. So I am putting to the vote once again the proposal that farm courts be able to deal with these issues for one year. Please vote. [[18:14:04]] For 218. Not accepted. There are nine months left. I'll put it to a vote. I repeat, Mikola Vasilovich, you have already had the opportunity to say more than you could. Don't do the circus. You don't want to take it. It's your business. I will not play your games, I will act in accordance with the Rules. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law of the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code, registration number 1331, taking into account the amendment that we have voted with you on political parties. Please vote. [[18:15:10]] For 228 Copy that. Thank you, Your Honor. And in conclusion, listen to the announcement. And by factions, please, by factions. Our Ukraine - 37, Communist - 54, Ukrainian - 4, People's Party - 23, Socialist - 25, Block of Timoshenko - 22, One Ukraine - 4, Social-Democracy - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 21, Democratic Ukraine - 18, Will of the People - 4, Democratic Initiatives - 0, Union - 0, Center - 3, NDP, Republic - 4, Non-Frakation - 9. [[United]] Dear colleagues! Listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Biruk Lev Vasilović, into the membership of the deputy faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! This evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m., and tomorrow we will work exclusively on Fridays. Good-bye.
