ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:00]] There were 361 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lebedovsky Valerius Anatoliyovich. Let's welcome him on his birthday, wish him all kinds of good things. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, declarations, queries, messages. I'd like to ask the distinguished factions and groups to apply. In the meantime, the parliamentary questions that have come will be announced. A request was received from the Ukrainian national deputies: Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen around the children's health camp “Colossus” of the Company district of Kirovograd. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” regarding the placement of publications in printed media. Vladimir PETREN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the delay in investigating the murder of a 15-year-old resident of the Suman region of Mikliyerny. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the removal of obstacles to the use of land belonging to persons with disabilities and groups. Sergey CHELNOKOVA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to repay the State budget's debts for the gasification of rural areas in the Kyiv region. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the prime minister's executive responsibility to control the allocation of funds to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and to the National Energy Shareholder Energy Company Energoat for the construction of the city of Energodar and Zaporezki AES. Jury CARMAZIN to the acting prime minister, the Attorney-General, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence on the numerous facts of corruption and abuse by officials of the State Committee of Natural Resources by their service status by violating the order for the granting of rights of use of the drama. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the executive duty of the Prime Minister regarding the problems of determining the remuneration of individual officials of local self - government. Jury ARTEMENKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to cancel the Cabinet of Ministers' order “On the provision, service and protection of Leonid Danilovich Kuchma”. Victor PETROVA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund for the prevention of the destruction of the Bershad sugar plant in the Winnitsky region. Vladimir BRONNIKOV under the prime minister's responsibility to re-register services in an energy installation complex and to create the conditions for the fullest utilization of the capabilities of nuclear power plant cities. Groups of National Deputies to the Acting Prime Minister on the misconduct of individual officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and European Integration in the adoption and implementation of Cabinet Order No. 849 of 17 November 2004 and amendments to the draft State Budget Act 2005 in December 2004. [[SCHOOL, STECK, WORKER, SOLOVEV]] Sergia ČELNOKOVA to the Acting Prime Minister for the financing of the gasification work of the village of Potijuk in the region of Kyiv. Mr. KARMAZIN’S Jury to the Acting Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Secretary of State of the President of Ukraine for the destruction of Odessa District Medical Center, the predatory and illegal management of his property, the improper response to a parliamentary request on the matter. Jury ARTEMENKA to the Acting Prime Minister's duty to cancel the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to grant state officials interest-free credit. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVO to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister for supporting the production of domestic agricultural technology. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the executive duty of Prime Minister regarding the restoration of the legality of the labour team of the State Enterprise ‘Donetskwogil’ on the lease of the entire property complex and the suspension of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy's orders to transfer this property to the lease. Gennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General’s Office, the Security Service for Gross Violations of Land and Natural Protection Law in the area of a village of the town-type Kozin Obuhiv district of Kyiv district. Vladimir LECHENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the Government Budget for Ukraine 2004 in part of the support of agriculture. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the General Audit Office, Head of the Accounts Office, for the underutilization of funds allocated from the State budget for the repair of innkeepers and engineering facilities in the village of Mala Wilshank Biloczerkow. Andrija SKILJA to the Attorney General for the repeated transfer of the dates of the entry into service of the building on the street of Panas Mirno, 17 for the fault of the Director of the State Housing Investment. Tarasa ČORNOVILLA to the Attorney General for numerous violations of legislation, social tension, and the threat of environmental disaster as a result of the artificial bankruptcy of the Ternopil meatcombinate. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Attorney General for the prosecution of the criminal investigation of the Gulipil District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye region. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney-General on the violation by the management of the Open Shareholders Association of “Posporizeelectric assembly” of legislation on the sale of immovable property into private property. BORIS OF THE UNBALL to the Attorney General for delaying the transmission of the material of the cassation complaint to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for the purpose of harming the State with the criminal acts of the owners of the State Shareholder Holding Company Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant in privatizing the enterprise and the financial and material resource schemes. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General to verify the legality of the actions of individual officials in the Kharkiv region. [[THE storm, the promiscuity, and others. Total 5 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies (DOWGY, TARAN (TEREN), SUSKEVICH, and others) to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the procedure for the State’s registration of medical devices. LILIA GREGOROVIC to the Attorney General for the violation of investor rights by the executive committee of the Gluhov City Council of the Suma Region. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General on the rightfulness of shutting down heating systems, including in schools and preschools, in the left - hand section of the city of Dniprožinska. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General regarding the abuse of power and the abuse of office by the first Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, found in the use of public service transportation on a trip from Kiev to the city of Rivnoy. [[RED, BROAD, ALEXIUK]] Gregory OMELCHEN — the Attorney General’s Office for the Crimes and Seizure of the former President of Ukraine for the kidnapping of journalist Georgi Gongadze, who caused his murder, the organization of assault on life, and the commission of bodily harm to the National Deputy Alexander Jelyashkevich, the organization of the illegal use of special technical means of non-voting information, the collection of bribes on a particularly large scale, the abuse of power and service status, the excess of power and official powers, the assistance of individual public officials in the acquisition and destruction of state currency in particular large amounts and the laundering of them abroad and the commission of other crimes. MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets on violations of the rights of shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association “Privacy Buildings”. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the removal from office of a member of the State Commission from securities and the Portnova Stock Market. [[Bondar, halt, weaver.]] RAISES OF THE wealthier to the Ministry of Health on the development of legal and regulatory instruments regarding the mandatory examination and treatment of persons with tuberculosis, improvement of the material and technical base of the fthysiatric sector and improvement of the working conditions of workers in the Phtysiatric Service. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVES TO THE DEFINITIVELY DEFINITIVES DEFINITIVELY TO THE DEFINITIVES OF THE OZERNE ZITOMIRISH CITY. Victor PETROVA to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Justice for Unwarranted Procrastination, dealing with the question raised in the MP’s statement regarding the citizen of Soyma. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the integration of the period of work of a citizen of Doubicko. RAISES OF THE wealthier to the Ministry of Health on the development of normative documents that regulate the activities of the district centres of prevention and the fight against HIV/AIDS and their staffing to meet existing needs. [[Local]] Group of National Deputies to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney-General, on the situation that took place in the village of the town-type Kozin of the Obuhi district of Kiev as a result of the collapse of the village council during the work of the deputy commission on 14 January 2005. [[MICHAEL, RABIKIN, BONDARCHUK, AND OTHERS]] Vasila Gladys to the State Property Fund, Ministry of Industrial Policy, Kharkiv District State Administration for Procedural Procrastination. Vladislav ATROSHENKA to the First Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Director-General of the State Railway Administration, Ukrzalznica, for the renewal of the Crnigów-Slavutić electric train. John BOKHO to the city’s head, the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture, the Attorney General, on the illegal signing of an act of acceptance into the operation of a residential building with an unworkable elevator. Lilia GREGOROVIC to the Head of the State Border Service for the illegal prohibition of entry into Ukraine for a 995 - year term of 995 - year - old Serbian youth leader Milos Milenkovic. HOTINICA’S Vitalia to the State Customs Office for the provision of information on imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of certain goods. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija Samoplavski, Director of the National Energy Company Ukrennergo for the provision of new electricity lines for the development of the social sphere of the hamsters and villages in the Rhine region. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General on the examination of the facts of gross violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the effective legislation of Ukraine and the oaths of the employee of the internal affairs bodies of Ukraine by the employees of the Montenegrin District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the criminalization of the perpetrators. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General, the Kyiv City Head, to examine the facts of illegal suspension of the release, and then to close the Fazenda newspaper and to hold the guilty officials accountable. JANUARY to the head of the State Committee on Nationality Rights and Migration on the violation of the right to life of residents of Kunesli Street of the Sun village of Levatka Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Andrija POLIETA and Anatolia NALIWAIKO, Vladimir ANISHUKA to the President of Ukraine on the amnesty of convicted political prisoners in the case of Odessa Communists. I'm betting on the vote to support this request. Please vote. [[10:15:23]] For 180. Request supported. I'd like to vote on the motion to the President. Please vote. [[10:15:45.]] For 229 Decision taken. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to the appeal of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization for the Protection of Housing Rights of Residents of the VAT NGO "Jobrem" city of Saki of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Valentina Seminyuk under the responsibility of the Minister of Economics and European Integration, a violation of legislation in the sale of a shop in the city of Ivano-Frankiv district. Yes. GREGORY OF THE CRIME OF THE CRIMINAL INJURY AND THE APPROACH OF THE GENERAL, TO THE PROPOSOR-GENERAL OF Ukraine FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL CRIMINAL COURT - Valery of Šmarov and other officials who engaged in the illegal sale of arms and military equipment abroad, causing significant harm to the national interests of Ukraine; Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the President of Ukraine, on the recognition of the struggle for freedom and non-belonging of Ukraine, which was waged by the U.N. Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian U.P.A. rebel army from March 39 to the end of the 1950s, with the national liberation of the Ukrainian people and the recognition of the UN, the U.N.A.A.A. warring party in World War II. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:17:26]] For the 120th. Yes. Request not supported. Thus, honourable colleagues, 54 parliamentary inquiries were made. By factions: "Our Ukraine" - 10, Communists - 17, "Regions of Ukraine" - 7, "The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 2, "The One Ukraine" - 1, "The People's Agrarian - 1, "The People's Democratic Party", "Republic" - 1, "The Socialist Party - 4, "The Block of Timoshenko - 6, "Industry, Entrepreneurs, "The Will of the People" - 2, "The Centre - 1, "The Nonfractional Party" - 2. [[united]] Dear colleagues, allow me to give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the February 1st plenary session: 14 issues of the agenda have been discussed, 17 bills and 2 draft regulations. As a result of the review, 2 Laws were passed, 8 Bills were adopted in the first reading, 4 Bills were submitted for further work, 2 Bills were rejected, one issue was postponed, two decrees were adopted. Let us move on to the presentations by representatives of MPs and factions. Mikola Kravchenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is invited to speak. Prepare Anatoly Rahanski. Dear colleagues, there are people at the Supreme Council, asking them to turn on the broadcast on the street to listen to speeches by members of the MPs and factions. Is there no objection? Please turn on the broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u2	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I would like to draw your attention to the problems of the multi-terrestrial coal industry, which has always been defended by the Communist faction, and for which former President Leonid Kuchma has adopted the titles, orders and titles of the Heroes of Ukraine. Today, it is undergoing another reorganization that will finally destroy the mines. In accordance with Presidential Decree No. 752 of 6 July on measures to improve the efficiency of coal governance and its development, a new governance system has been in place since September 2004. It is not possible to disclose all aspects of this restructuring within three minutes, but it can be clearly stated that the new restructuring is aimed at finally destroying the coal industry. It's the result of it today. The industry's management has been lost, multi-stage and financial resources have been created artificially, allowing budget money to flow through these structures. The State Holding Company and Mines have lost their legal status, which has caused serious social problems in cities and settlements. First of all, this is ambiguity in the formulation of local budgets and wages. Most importantly, the existing governance structure is not part of the labour safety regulations. We are already seriously seeing the loss of production today, and the miners are no longer paying wages for three months. The Supreme Council cannot stay away from these processes. In view of the above, the Communist faction makes a proposal. First. Report immediately to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation of the coal restructuring by the Minister of Fuel and Energy. My registration number was 6537 dated 21 January. Second. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine will submit a two-week period to the Communist faction of the techno-economic justification for the restructuring. The Meram of mining cities will inform the faction within two weeks of the socio-economic consequences of this restructuring. The Communist faction will propose the establishment of a special commission to investigate the circumstances leading to the destruction of the coal sector of the energy sector, which is 90 per cent of the country's balance. And we plan to have someone answer for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky of the Group of Democratic Initiatives is invited to speak. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u4	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Deputy Group Democratic Ukraine, interfractional MP association "Deputy Chernobyl". Dear colleagues, one of the priority issues of our group is the social protection of citizens of the state and especially those affected by the accident at CHAES. The 2005 National Budget of Ukraine does not fully address the problem of social protection of the Chernobyl population. That is, the budget provides for a solution of only 15 percent of what is needed. Participants in the elimination of this terrible catastrophe, and about three million of them, are constantly reporting their problems through the media, expressing them in their letters and addresses. Sadly, though, these people are not heard. And today they are forced to hold their action by protesting against the walls of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. We just talked to them. These are their requirements. It is time to increase spending in the State budget for the current year in order to fully address the problems of social protection in line with current legislation, namely: to pay off the debt for compensation and in the past years; to ensure full payment of Chernobyl pensions, compensations, benefits; and to provide funding for health and rehabilitation measures; and to allocate housing for persons with disabilities. Chronic failure to address these social problems puts exterminators in difficult living conditions, leading to significant deaths among them. From 99 to 2004 alone, about 600,000 died. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The meeting draws the attention of the Supreme Council to the disastrous state of affairs at Chernobyl Station. The facility works for 19 years, was built in critical conditions, calculated for a 15-year period of operation. Today, he still needs another sarcophagus to be built on him. The delay in implementing a package of programs to transform a shelter into an environmentally sound system depends on the future of millions of Ukrainians and neighbouring nations. The events that took place during the presidential elections in Ukraine show that the people need to be counted. On the basis of the Chernobyl requirements, they would request the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 15 February 2005 a draft Act amending the National Budget Act, taking into account Chernobyl's problems and the full implementation of state programmes. Terminovo to complete the newly formed State Committee on Chernobyl, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to consider the draft decree on the creation of a new Supreme Council Committee on the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. This will speed up the solution to all of Chernobyl’s problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u5	Yes, Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, we are talking a lot about the great problems of our country right now. Now they're all busy forming a government, but people, I think they're living another life. But how does he live? For about two and a half years now, our elector, Mikola Andriyovich Paszicky, a labor veteran from Kiev, lives on 23 B.C. 101, she lives with her wife, Maria Ivanovna, and they are both 100 years old. Let's think about it for 100 years! And these people have been suffering for three years from the leaking of their apartment, and it's on the top floor. Well, to see what's going on in this apartment, you have to stay in it. There the walls have long blossomed, they are afraid to include light because the wires have also leaked. Well, the ceiling is falling, around the night, the bucket and everything you want. In 2003, I appealed to the head of the Chevchenkov District Administration, Catherinechuk, for help. We promised and we didn't do anything. Last year, I was asked by the deputy to speak to the city’s Kiev head, Omelchenka. The answer came from the signature of his first deputy Borisov. We promised and did nothing again. And now that it's raining or snowing, well, it's a real swamp in the apartment. And this, I repeat, is the veterans of labor who are 100 years old, they can't achieve anything. The MPs and the city administration, and the district administration, send only credits, promises, send out commissions that openly ridicule the elderly. I think so. And then it's said that there's no money for this to repair, sorry, a little area has been covered over this apartment. I don't think it's about money. The Kiev head spends a lot of money on self - advertising, and there is no money to help a particular person who makes up the people. I think it's just no conscience and there's no responsibility to people. It's easy to say, you know, about the whole state, it's easy to talk about all of humanity, to love a neighbor -- that's how folk wisdom says. To love a civil servant, the chosen people of the city’s head or the head of the district administration, means to help a person. I think this is going to be another one of my final questions to the city of Kiev. I think we need to help a particular person in order to then have the right to look at all the kyans for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u7	Catherine Timofievna Vaszczuk, faction of the People’s Agrarian Party Prepare Vladimir Demiokin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Our faction is concerned about the situation with the provision of electricity to the village. The provision of electricity to farmers from Ukraine’s Single Energy System is made through the power grids of power suppliers that are monopolistic owners. This requires imposing unfavourable contractual conditions on rural consumers and, in particular, setting low thresholds for their consumption of electricity, which, in most cases, entails the application of five - fold fines, an increase in tariffs, and severe sanctions for the untimely execution of accounts. Substantial damage to the economic situation of agricultural enterprises was caused three years ago when the National Commission on Power Management abolished the tax on electricity. Since then, the tariffs for APC companies have grown almost double, and the villagers are paying today -- think about it, colleagues! - for one kilowatt of energy, 65 percent more than industrial consumers. This is a big difference between electricity and district schedules. For example, at Winnitz today, industrial enterprises pay 16 and 6 dollars, so peasants pay 26 and 24. In Kirovograd, 17 and 4 are industries, 27 and 7 are villages. Ternopil: 17 and 2 — industry, 26 and 3 — village And so almost every area. Volin. 16 industries, 25 almost our village. As a result of the systematic increase in tariffs and the application of fines, peasants are in constant debt to energy. Today, more than 700 million dollars are owed for fines. It puts the village on its knees in front of the energy industry. Laws were passed by our factions to settle these issues. This is the law of Vaschuk on electricity tariffs and the law of Hirschfeld on the abolition of fines. Dear National Deputies! Our faction asks you to consider these laws first, to support them, and to establish justice in relation to the consumer of peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u9	Vladimir Demiohin, faction of Ukraine. Get Michael ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u10	Vladimir Demiohin, faction of the "One Ukraine" party, Herson. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! My statement today from the One Ukraine faction concerns the position of our party and the faction on the main contemporary goals and objectives in the country. When it comes to goals, there can be few. The sole goal is the well-being of every citizen of our country. How can this be achieved? By building a strong State with foreign and domestic policies aimed at achieving this primary goal, the goal of well-being. To build a strong State, it is necessary to create conditions and prerequisites. What are these conditions? First. Our population must become a people. It is achieved only if the whole population is united by one idea, the idea must have universal meaning and meaning. The goal of universal well-being is the same unifying idea. So the popular Ukrainian idea is everyone's well-being. Does this idea have anything to do with the separatist sentiments that separate politicians make? Of course not. Separate separatist sentiments in Ukraine are facilitated by division on national grounds, which are fueled by the idea of different economic potentials and ethnic roots of the regions. In order to achieve the same goals in society, in order not to lead to local conflicts, but to create parallel directions, i.e. political knee-capacities, a high level of consciousness and a high spirituality is required. There is a need to change the local world view of the way of life in society. It is very important that the understanding of well-being first place the national and not the nationalistic idea of building a strong State with a high morality, culture and standard of living. Money, as a notion of well-being, should not serve as a means of separating people. This can be achieved only at a high level of spirituality, including the category of conscience. Only in an immoral, spiritless society can the privatization we have in our country take place. Millions of people have been deceived. The second condition of building a strong State is that there are enough people in society to make decisions. This is achieved through education and development for people capable of other than analytical thinking about synthesis. The optimistic view of meeting these conditions is based on the ethnic roots of our people, who live in the territory with the modern name “Ukraine”, and our roots are that of Ukraine. The geographical equivalent of the territory. The Russians. All modern Ukraine, complemented by the territory of Russia and Belarus in the north and the south by the northern coast of Turkey, is in itself the ideological foundation of unification of people without territorial and national.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u11	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u12	What instrument do we have to address this challenge? First of all, of course, it is the Supreme Council, as a legislative body. And today we have an enhanced role for the Supreme Council, as constitutional reform has been adopted. And, of course, in the executive body, this is a programme of government that we will be considering with you shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u13	Mikhail Potemenko, MP's Alliance, please. Prepare Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Nearly 19 years have passed since the tragedy that took place in Chernobyl. As head of the Office of the Attorney General’s Office at that time, I was directly from the first days — seven days. I saw all the tragedy myself, the people that were there, and many of them have already gone to heaven, including the Deputy Secretary of Internal Affairs of Baird and a number of others who have been before. But we should pay special respects to those who directly carried out the difficult mission that they had been entrusted with. These are miners and workers from other sectors of the national economy. It must be said that over the past five years, there has been only 600,000. These people have already left this world. And we're at the part that's still alive, the disabled, and I think we're kind of cynicism, and we need to call things our names. Because in today’s budget, the cost of providing the benefits for the Chernobyl family is, first of all, treatment, first of all, providing them with proper nutrition and so forth. In total, 15 percent of all these needs have been provided for by legislation. So I'm going to call on the people's deputies with one mission: I'm asking you to make a certain contribution to the budget that is currently being budgeted today, so that there's some adjustments and to fully meet the needs that are required by the legislation for the Chernobyl population. In addition, it should be noted that 160 million people live in poverty. The government has already owed these people money, and today it is shrinking even more. I think it's just a inhuman attitude towards our fellow countrymen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u15	Thank you. Oleg Belarus, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, has the floor for the performance. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u16	Oleg Belarus, Julia Timoshenko bloc faction, Fatherland Party. Dear Head, honourable national MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, after the 2004 democratic revolution, the victory of democratic forces, the inauguration of the new Ukrainian national president, Yushchenko, and the beginning of the 7th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the citizens of our country have hope of a successful solution to the acute, urgent economic and social problems and among them, the most important of all, the eradication of poverty in our potentially rich European country. We must live up to these national hopes. Today, more than ever, the full mobilization and unification of all our people are needed. In terms of economic breakthroughs, the old economic system, the old pace and the old quality of economic development are no longer able to accommodate our people, nor the European community, nor in terms of wages, nor in terms of heavy inertia, the so-called economy of cheap labour, nor in terms of the pace of our development. Or the highest strategic imperative is to achieve an unprecedented 15% growth rate for Ukraine. Over the next five years, we have to triple the budget, which is now small, and it's about $10 billion -- that's the level of one company in the Western world. As President of the Supreme Council pointed out yesterday, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, we need to ensure the Ukrainian economic, political and social breakthrough, and we need to do so through the formation of a new, fair and responsible authority. The atmosphere of the Consolidation requires us to take a new approach to the formation of the Government. We should have responsible prime ministers who propose and personally take charge of the program. Therefore, I propose to approve the Prime Minister's candidacy, along with the approval of his own programme, as is done in Europe and around the world. This will make it possible to achieve qualitatively new results. This European model was justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u17	Thank you. Igor Shurma, a faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine, is invited to speak. Prepare Vasil Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u18	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. There was a meeting of the political bureau of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine united. And according to his decision at the party’s next assembly in March of this year, the issue of party standing in today’s conditions, and, more specifically, the need for the party to move to opposition, will be discussed. At that point, we're underscoring. The opposition to the SDR will be based on a classic base. That is, opposition not to specific people, but to concrete actions. As a means of seeking to fulfill the pre-election promises of today’s power, as a protection for members of the party from possible hardships, as a protection for the rights of those who have other visas for the development of events in Ukraine. If the President's and the government's decisions really reflect the interests of the people of the state, they will really be geared towards the development of democracy of Ukraine, the Social Democrats will positively appreciate such actions. On the contrary, it will surely be worth the weight of our party. Then the legal control of power for SDPU(o) becomes one of the main directions of party work in new conditions. Throughout the world, using all available methods, we have protected and protected the interests of citizens. All who will be oppressed by the rule of law, resulting in human and civil rights restrictions, can count on us to provide legal aid. A fragmented network of public receptions from SDPU(o) will play a significant role in this. The party's control will also be subject to all the pre-election promises that came out of the mouth of the leaders of the new government, the newly elected President, especially those relating to the approval of Ukraine as a social state. It is in the fulfillment of all the promises of a social nature that the authorities will be fully encouraged by us. In particular, the faction has already been introduced into Parliament's consideration a number of legislative initiatives that should help the authorities implement their pre-election slogans on such issues as setting minimum wage at the minimum of living, fixing the amount of one-time assistance at the birth of a child at 20 subsistence minimums, setting up a moratorium on the price of utility services. These points were contained in the President's decrees that were regularly published on the ground and then, to the firm conviction of the Social Democrats, are subject to mandatory and immediate execution. In view of the urgency of these issues, their special weight for the citizens, the faction suggests that these issues be considered first. As long as the word does not differ from that of the new authority, it will lead to the observance and enforcement of the regulations contained in the presidential decrees. Specific steps taken by the authorities to fulfill their promises, especially in the social sphere, will serve as a signal for society to judge its real intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u19	Vassil Gavriluk, Deputy Group Center, please. Lukashuk will be next in line with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request. I have filed the necessary documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u20	Attention, conjunctors! Dear friends, colleagues, the Presidency! The power has changed, and we see with you what changes are taking place now. Reds came, whites left, or vice versa -- it's not that important. And today we're all worried about what's going to happen tomorrow? It excites many people in the regions, especially when it comes to the fear that today our citizens fear that if the current power does not make serious changes, it does not change at the centre and on the ground those who have oppressed entrepreneurs, who have stolen from the State, who have given people their views and beliefs political and remain on the ground, nothing changes. Take a look at what is happening and how things are unfolding today. The President of Ukraine has not been able to inaugurally move quickly to the exit, and he has been able to reach out. Well, of course it's possible not to talk about a woman. And my friend Hubsky, who is literally the best and most loyal to the current power, and a year ago, Bogdan, if you remember, you have actively convinced me to become a supporter of the Kushmo terrorist regime. You convinced me and you told me that I was a hidden Jew, and today we actually see a real face of a lot of people, especially when it comes to the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers today. And the more the power or position that is offered to a leader, the more the number of marketers or the people whom I would call adapters are located and surrounded by the same person. After the inauguration, various celebrations were held. I am such a huge number of people who literally "wet" the power that Yushchenko represents today, and the people around him, the comrades, I was so struck when they all claimed in one voice that they were supporters of Yushchenka, that they were with him for the rest of their lives, and we don't understand anything, or we don't know, or we're wrong. Today, there are almost no local leaders, especially with regard to the force: the police, the prosecutor's office. They're all in Kiev, they're all trying to find connections and exits. The governors in charge of Greenewsky are trying to find a place warm and resolve their skin interests. I would like to warn the new power that such people should be given a fundamental assessment. You don't have to make political reprisals, but people need to know who's who. People today are waiting for change, people want the law, the principle of power, not the power of principles, to return, the power of principle, not the principle of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u21	Please, Lukashuk. In view of the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u22	Oleg Lukashuk, electoral district 188, non-fractional, member of the State Reserve College. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At the end of the last session, we heard twice a talk from this rostrum of our colleagues who allowed themselves to blame the head of the Pesocké State Reserve for all sins. I am a member of the State Reserve College, so I am well aware of the demands of the State Reserve for my firms for individual preferences, including those who criticize. Probably not satisfied with what was received, a congregation of so - called MPs began to compromise with the use of the MP's mandate and the defamation of the honour and dignity of Mikola Pesocke, who was the national deputy of the 3rd and 4th vocations and currently in office, achieved significant successes that could not outline the various falsifications and writings that were sent to respected public institutions. Dear colleagues, at last today, Ukrainian citizens can be sure that they have a reliable backdrop in the person of the State Reserve. In the last two years, substantial stocks of strategically important resources have been created to guarantee economic and food security in the country. So for the first time in years of independence, a 5-month supply of grain was created. No European country or SND countries have such indicators. Stocks of light petroleum products are actively being replenished. After many years of forced conservation, an 11.5,000 - ton industrial refrigerator was added and put into operation, and it has no analogues in any of the countries of the SND. A resource research institute has been created, and it has become a leading role in ensuring the quality of products provided by the State Reserve. It's opened up to provide services to a unique state-owned enterprise called Ukspecavtobaza, which in the shortest possible time can deliver the cargo of the State Reserve to places where they may be needed in the event of emergencies. Revitalization in all directions has allowed the Reserve to substantially, almost double, increase the number of jobs in enterprises, offices, and nearly twice as much wages. Without exaggeration, I will say that Pesocki is a real master and that he who was once in the Derzcomreserve made a dramatic change for the better. Since 2003, the government’s reserves have never been stocked. regarding borrowing. Then. is given to the use of values, taking into account fines of 7 billion dollars. You and I understand very well, Your Honor, if a national deputy goes to the rostrum and accuses the head of the central executive authority twice in a row, something is wrong. So I insist that we are witnesses to the basic order. So let us not make petty and unfounded accusations, but together we will help the State to recover 7 billion dollars. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u23	Valerius Konovaluk from the Ukrainian MP's faction, please. Last speaker, no more applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters, radios! It is very important for us all to be aware of the period that Ukraine is experiencing. And I am convinced that the position, which concerns not only every national MP, but also those who supported the presidential elections and one candidate and another candidate to the presidents, demonstrates the maturity and political culture of our society. But at the same time, we cannot but say that today our supporters, activists, members of a party of regions in certain areas are subjected to very serious persecution and persecution. Today, these people are under very serious pressure because of their civic and professional position. I don't think we should go down to such an extent that we don't realize that this has very serious and unsafe consequences. It is from this rostrum that the newly elected President, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, is referring to the fact that he is stretching out his hand to every national MP, and that is to say to every elector, regardless of his position during the presidential elections. I am convinced that it is this path today that must be the only one in terms of the creation of a new social economic policy, which must today address the transformation of not only the Ukrainian people, but also the new power. Dear colleagues! I would also like to propose to the newly elected President that this year in Ukraine should be a year of national unity and reconciliation. So that right now we can assess our future perspective. Indeed, today, we are aware of the responsibility of Ukrainian society that this session should be the most productive. We therefore request that the Supreme Council Rules Act be introduced into the Hall as soon as possible. A law that prejudges the organization of the work of the supreme legislative body. A law that clearly defines the rights and powers of the opposition. To see today the approach that has been taken has been heard over the past few years. And it is very important for us that, right now, Parliament demonstrate not only to the people's deputies but also to Ukrainian society that we are able to identify the most important, important problems. And which will be dealt with in Parliament's walls and found a solution. We therefore reiterate our desire to do our work both productively and effectively, but only in the framework of the new Rules Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches by the MPs and the factions have been completed. Regarding the proposals made by the national deputies, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Now, according to articles 4.2.2. and 4.3. of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Protocol for the Meeting of Deputies and Democratic Ukraine of February 1, 2005, I inform you that the national deputies of Ukraine are elected as authorized representatives of this group: Mikola Noshchenka and Jaroslav Suhogo. Yes. For reasons, please sign in for three minutes. On the board, please, the names of the national MPs who signed up. Anatoly Nastawayko, Communist faction. Simonenko Peter, right? The petitioner transmits the micro, the right to speak to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u26	Simonenko. The Communist faction. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, on Monday at the Conciliation Council, I, on behalf of the faction, insisted that the Government provide us with information, i.e. the National Deputies and the Supreme Council, on the basis of which the laws today fund the maintenance of Kuchma and such great money is used to finance its safe, so to speak, age today. I insist on the fact that without law and without any grounds, the government had no right to finance this situation, let's say. I insist that we listen to this information and in the end everyone understood what a miner and a metallurgyr should get the same way Kuchma gets today, who was practically expelled by the people of Ukraine by voting against him. And the second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I urge you to provide information on how the decision to withdraw is being made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u27	Oleg Rimaruk, faction of Ukraine, please. Microphone. None. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues and distinguished radio listeners, the faction of socialists supports the proposal that our colleague Peter Simonenko made for the purpose of getting information on which the account, from which the cost was decided on special, so to speak, the conditions of former President Kuchma's residence. The point is, yesterday, the news came from the first President of Ukraine, who had no such powers and benefits. Therefore, in our view, the law must be passed in this regard and there should be no corresponding speculation. Because if a person today does not have to buy a piece of bread, when people have worked their whole life for 50 years, they have a meager fortune today. Here, too, there are such great privileges on the shoulders of the bar. So we support the proposal that has been made, and we would like to get, really, that kind of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u29	Anichuk, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u30	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u31	Peter Simonenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. You and I have witnessed that during the election campaign the presidential candidates claimed that the first decrees would be the decrees that would call our military out of Iraq. I urge, on behalf of our faction, to provide information on how the Supreme Council's decision is being implemented, which was taken at the initiative of the Communists to call back, to call off our military contingent from Iraq immediately. I remind you that Poland is deciding to call off its military, and this procedure is already beginning. The rest of the nation’s health - conscious nations have also responded to how to ensure the protection of the people’s interests in their own territory. I mean, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, on behalf of the faction, I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to inform you how the Supreme Council's decision to recall the military contingent from Iraq is being implemented and how the President fulfils his obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u33	Dear people's deputies, we exchanged thoughts on the motives of our work. Regarding the first question that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko raised. Tomorrow we will consider the President's proposal to grant approval for the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. I think the national MPs might be able to ask a question about that. I think we need it, and I talked about it at the opening of the session, speeding up the adoption of the Ukrainian Presidential Act, and there foresaw an appropriate distribution on the provision of Ukrainian presidents. About Iraq. I will ask you to prepare an address so that I can invite you to the appropriate information. After it's received, I'll inform you, honourable national deputies. Dear colleagues, we have foreseen that today we should hear information about the participation of the permanent delegations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in South Africa in the work of the January 2005 session. It is suggested that the head of the permanent delegation Boris Ilchi Oliynik be presented with information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues. So I'm informing. From January 24 to 28, 2005 the first part of the Paris next session took place in Strasbourg, with the participation of a permanent delegation composed of national deputies for the alphabet: Bilozur, Gladys, Glavatius, Zhivago, Karpov, Klimpush, Kostenko, Oliynik, Rahanski, Rybak. [[France]] We were helped in the work, and quite significantly, the workers of the Permanent Delegation’s Secretariat, Viacheslav Lakshin, Andrew Korniychuk, Igor Piljav. The help we received, as always, was felt by our constant representation in Strasbourg under Anatoly Shevchuk. Among the problems that have been considered, let me point out.: compliance with Georgia's obligations and obligations, the activities of the OSCE mine conference on conflict through Upper Karabakh, protection of human rights in Kosovo, the third summit, genetically modified organisms, prospects for peace in the Middle East, the Council of Europe convention against trafficking in human beings, relations between Europe and the United States, Europe and tsunami-induced disaster, the creation of a European centre for the memory of victims of forced displacement and ethnic cleansing on a draft convention on the prevention of terrorism, etc. On the first day, René Vanderlinsen was unanimously elected head of the Group of the European People’s Party in Paris as the new president of the Assembly. For this hearing report by the head of the delegation on monitoring the presidential elections in Ukraine during the first and second tours of Doros Christodolites and the heads of the group of observers for the second round of the Tadeusha Ivinski vote. [[Cyprus]] [[Poland]] In the electoral process estimates, the above-mentioned dignitaries had certain differences. Doros Christoulites, for example, noted that there had been a violation of political rights and human rights regarding persons with disabilities. At the same time, Ivinsky stressed that voting was fairer and much closer to European standards than the first two rounds. The Correspondent of the Severinsen Monitoring Committee welcomed the Ukrainian people with the victory of the Democrats. The vast majority of the debaters assessed the results of the elections in Ukraine as a success of parliamentaryism, which would have a significant positive impact on the whole of Europe. Having participated in the discussion, I personally warned that the opposition of the huge public square to the brutal falsification of the results of the elections was an accidental sporadic shift in the psychology and mentality of the crowd and the great passages of certain gold that, said, a new phenomenon was born on the ground, rather than a wicked one, and the truth was that the people were simply reborn. And the world and Europe on the stage finally saw the real face of the Ukrainian people, behind whose shoulders was the oldest tropical civilization, according to its novels -- the mighty Kyiv Rouss, the legendary Parisian Cossack. By the way, the first developers of Kibalczich's spacecraft, Orge, Kondratuk, the Kings -- also Ukrainian. A Eurologist may be interested in the fact that Ukrainian language is related to Sanskrit according to its structure and biology. I recalled this philosophical fact by testifying that the Ukrainians were essentially implementing a model of peaceful resistance to our great relative, Mahatma Gandhi. Although in the future I would not recommend that we try as long as we have endured, our patience with the landmen of Nestor Ivanovich Nena. Hearing about the elections was essentially a kind of introduction to the visit and address of the President of Ukraine at the PARE session. I don't want to tell you, I don't want to tell you what kind of stress comes from going to a similar level, first for the D.C. and a lot of mail. [[I asked for 15 minutes.]] Nothing like that has happened in the course of Victor Yushchenk's visit, to which I express my deep sympathy for his grief, because whoever we are, presidents or who, our highest position, is the son of his mother. As usual, the tail of a large herd, which causes unnecessary trouble for its owners, has involved the minimum needed to provide him with a neat and accurate program, modestly, without pumping, but also decently. His address to the members of the Assembly was, without exaggeration, the main event of this year’s session, referred to and quoted by Europe’s well - known politicians throughout the work of the forum. I'm not going to make a statement, hoping that the President's speech, if not published, will be publicized. Yushchenko assured the Parisian dignitaries that a report of every effort to ensure the rule of law, that the new authorities would stand firm in the defense of freedom of speech, eradicate corruption, restore the independence of the judiciary, and contribute to the final fulfilment of their obligations to the Council of Europe. Responding to numerous questions, and especially regarding the Gongadze case, he noted that the authorities would do their utmost to bring the matter to public hearing in court as soon as possible. And at a press conference, he didn't avoid sharp angles, but he didn't always have the right questions like, "When and who are they going to plant?" - he reasoned that from now on in Ukraine, the place of telephone law has been firmly governed by the rule of law. So everyone gets credit, but only by law. Finally, he promised to meet with his mother, Georgia Gongadze, and to do everything possible until the final examinations and funerals. One word, for this rather overburdened day in the Council of Europe, the President contributed to the authority of his state. It was nice to notice that Viktor Andriyovich was not very respectful of those who were rotting at his feet as soon as he had been kissed yesterday by a completely different Pope. I say this, not to praise the far-reaching purpose, as we say in Zapilovac, "hands, claws, and the Presidency," but to strengthen its position in defense of the many hunters behind the acts, especially those who are pale-blown in the eyes of the bewildered Midan have moved into the colors of the morning sun. In general, this session was loaded with very difficult issues, such as the protection of human rights in Kosovo, such as matters concerning Nagorny Karabakh. This day, Rahansky addressed the United Nations, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in connection with our Chernobyl disaster, when it must be resolved. The morning session looked at prospects for peace in the Middle East, where it was pointed out that the election of Abbas was a victory for democracy. Mr Jan Truczynski, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Council of Europe, spoke to the Assembly on behalf of the chairman of the Council of Europe, who identified today's activities as priorities for strengthening the unity of the member states of the Council of Europe, strengthening mechanisms for the protection of human rights, etc. He particularly welcomed the victory of democracy in Ukraine, highly appreciated the loyalty of Ukrainian society to European values. "The President -- quote him -- Yushchenko sent us a clear message yesterday, Ukraine is waiting for real support from the Council of Europe, and we should not disappoint Ukrainian society," he stressed. The Assembly endorsed a recommendation from the Council of Ministers that the next summit, which will take place from 16 to 17 May in Warsaw, will find adequate answers to the challenges of time and will help strengthen the role of the Council of Europe. [[May I have your attention, please?]] As an official document of the Assembly, I have circulated a written declaration calling upon the authorities of Lithuania to perform an act of mercy and to release from the custody of 77-year-old Mikol Saburajavis, former secretary of the Lithuanian Company, doctor of historical sciences, a professor who has been a political prisoner for over 11 years, to end two heart attacks, whose health is deteriorating every day. The document was signed by twenty members of the Assembly from Ukraine, Greece, Cyprus, Macedonia, Moldova, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Switzerland, representing all the political groups of the Assembly. The German parliamentary delegation gave us a meal, during which we had an informal exchange of ideas on the topical issues of the development of bilateral relations between European politics and inter-parliamentary cooperation, coordination of efforts within the framework of South Africa. At the morning meeting in PARJE of the political issues on the committee that discussed the situation around Transnistria, I reiterated that Ukraine was careful to track developments in Transnistria and stressed that Kiev was only acting through Chisinau in its relations with Tiraspol, understanding the threat of possible tectonic discords in the event of an exacerbation of the conflict. This is not the first time such signals have been given by some Romanian deputies who are not correct. Regarding Europe’s relationship with the United States, criticism was expressed at the U.S. address for their unilateral approach to resolving international issues from the position of a superstate not to listen to the thoughts of another part of the world, to impose their values by armed means, resulting from its economic interests. An unconstructive approach to the death penalty, the international criminal court and the Kyoto Protocol. The panellists expressed their support for the development of a new dialogue from the United States and urged both sides to find common touch points on strengthening democracy, protecting human rights and ensuring peace and stability. I also took part in this discussion and, as you can understand, called upon the White House to drive Europe into the path of our enlightening mission to explain to the hawks of Potomac that there are other nations besides America, that there are also normal people there, that they want to live by the laws of their ancestors, not those imposed on them by a state that has only been 200 years. In the evening, the delegation and the permanent representative of Ukraine accepted the Parliamentary delegation of the United Kingdom into the house of a permanent representative. The reception took place in a friendly atmosphere, according to our colleagues. Well, I'd also like to say that, in discussing the establishment of the Peoples' Deportation Centre, I've taken steps to ensure that all parts of the deportation are introduced to Ukrainians who have suffered and evicted the smokers, both from Western Ukraine, and the ostrichs, and so on. I would like to separate the election of Sergey as Head of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights. These are the main divisions of the Council of Europe. This is also evidence of the high authority of the chosen one and of the entire delegation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u35	Yes. Boris Illich, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ordering of Officials of all branches of government in Ukraine is under review in accordance with the rule of law and democracy. The reporter will be Mr. Černovetsk Leonid Mikhajlovich, with a co-report by Vladimir Černjak. The committee proposes such rules of procedure. Now I'm going to read a proposal from my esteemed colleagues. For the report, up to five minutes, answers to questions, up to five minutes, for the report, up to five minutes, discussion and decision-making, 10 minutes. No warning? None. Thank you. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I beg your attention, I think this law will finally win enough votes today. It is a matter of regulating in Ukraine the content of officials of all branches of government in accordance with the rules of the rule of law and of the democratic State. From year to year, the lives of ordinary people have deteriorated in Ukraine, the plight of Ukrainian citizens who cannot actively defend their rights, the sick and the helpless, the elderly, the young, the orphans and the disabled. The society is sure to know the rate at which homeless citizens and street children are growing in the country. The incidence of deadly diseases, AIDS, tuberculosis, typical of underdeveloped countries put Ukraine on the brink of catastrophic outbreaks. The population of the country is shrinking at such a pace that this phenomenon is already becoming unseemly even in Europe. We must not forget those poor pensions for old people and children and youth unemployment, destroyed enterprises with a glorious history in the USSR. And that's all there is to it. All these setbacks are directly linked to the huge unprecedented debt of the State to defrauded citizens. Many of our constituents have savings books, government bonds, and the like. Even from modern governments that are not being implemented. I remember once when one of the Prime Ministers, who is now in America, showed the people's savings book, as he puts his last savings into storage. In fact, it turns out that they're not his last ones, and they didn't give people any money. Although he must have got his own. I have been drafting this bill since 1998. At the time, of course, he did not find support in the leadership of Parliament. And contrary to my constitutional law, he was not even put in Parliament. Today I have the opportunity to present it to you. This is an unprecedented robbery case that exists in power today. I'm talking about that. Look, can you at least listen? It's better for you than it is for you. Respectable. It's interesting to those who have money in their lockers today. These are the armored Mercedes, the planes, full of hotels, the last of the leaders of the DUSI, this is the State Office to the President of the past of Ukraine. God forbid Victor Andreevich gets rid of him. And that's what the Moscow Hotel means and washed away with it. There are billions of money spent on expensive furniture, all the unnecessary things that are completely and unaccepted in a democratic society. That's outrageous. This has gradually established the power of officials in the country. I hope the new Government will be able to eliminate this. It has gradually become the main one and 98 per cent of the citizens have remained behind it, and 80 per cent of the population is living away from all possible demands that are being submitted to democratic Ukraine today. I'm talking about the simplest thing: let's get these billions back to the savings books of our pensioners and the disadvantaged citizens. It's important! The next thing I know, I just got in touch with the former head of the union, and it's gonna be a law for us to be. I mean, we once gave a bunch of property to a bunch of professional hoodlums, where everybody's resting today, except for the non-working people, right? There's Mr. Simonenko laughing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u37	Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete. Please, let me ask you a question. Leonid Mikhailovich, there is a question. Yes, on the board is the name of the national MPs who are enrolled for questions. Yuri Kostenko, faction of our Ukraine. You don't? Then Michaelo Rodionov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u38	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u39	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u40	Dear Leonide Mikhailovich, you have talked very convincingly about the disadvantaged people and the savings books that contain certain figures with many zeros, but there is no money to ensure the return of these savings. In Soviet times, the State guaranteed the return of these savings by factories, factories, steamships, and so forth. Who's got these factories and factories now? Don't you think it's appropriate to return the Black Sea steaming, the Crimsonstall, privatized and others and the money they get to pay back what they own? Don't you think this money is going to be a hundred times more than what you're suggesting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u41	For a question? Just turn me on, please. I haven't been able to introduce myself: Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. That's a really cool question: everything that we've been fighting about, our citizens have been fighting over Communist rule in Parliament, and the laws that you've passed, right? It's you who gave all these supplication operations billions of dollars, you gave up all these privileges, you're holding on to them today, because poverty is eating you up, so no one in your deputies will go without the help of those. Here's what you're asking me. You vote, I promised you I'd do it. Give it to me. - and we'll all do as it is. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u43	And let's get back to the steamboats that the communists were fighting, and let's all get back to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u44	Next question. Zwegilski, please, Jephthim. You don't? Stormy. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u45	Please give the floor to the national deputy Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u46	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u47	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Leonid Mikhailovich! We always listen to you with great interest. But in this bill you're proposing strange things. I'm here if you want to see me. You suggest that prominent medical facilities be transferred to the Ministry of Health. To offer this, we need to know the state of affairs in the MOH and the state of affairs in the medical institutions, say, the Crucifixions, the Security Service, the Mini-Defense and others. You're proposing a revolution so that better things can be passed on to the media, which today is not as much a health care business as it is a drug trade and a tender. Why do you offer such a foolish offer because you are known as a politician — wise, wise, and Christian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u48	I am glad to hear that I am wise and wise. You're gonna vote for my law, you're a good man, and you're gonna have a great question. This is not about the benefits and privileges of pensioners, veterans and others. I'm shutting down this problem right now. Vote at least on first reading so that people will have the hope of returning the money stolen from the books. It's not about anything else. Next, work with the communists, with the other, and we'll get back to him. It's a complex problem! It's been a long time since I told you. Well, you want every number, yeah, it's just a nightmare! With the full support of the Communists, the bandits have been kidnapped recently, and even Pinchuk has been able to destroy the land in Desert Vodice. He lacks billions of dollars to buy it and put it back in the budget! Here's all that's been going on. Anything else, please, we can get back to that. I'm not insisting on her. Let's leave it in the department, there's no problem. I'm talking about billions of money, millions of people who serve the power of the people who have the power, and those who have the power don't exist, and there are relatives and acquaintances and everything else. Please support this bill. It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u49	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Time's up. Thank you, sit down, please. Well, I hear I see everything! Have a seat, please. Alla Alexandrovska, a replica. Then Vladimir Cherniak will act with a co-report. Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u50	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. As always, Mr. Czernovetsk is allowing his statements to be heard by the public and, of course, to the political power he fears most. Today, as far as I know, he has been appointed advisor to Yashchenko, the new President. And I understand what Yushchenko will say as President and what he will do. Of course, there is a need to limit the funding of officials, of course. It's undeniable, no one can argue with that. And it must be said that during the years of the restructuring of the Soviet government, the Communists supported the idea of reducing the office. But today, in Ukraine, it has grown much more than it was in Soviet times. You're talking about privatization. So I want to say that everything Ukraine has today was created in Ukraine in the Soviet Union by the people of Ukraine and by the people of the Soviet Union, precisely under Communist rule, if I may speak. Humans created and lived well. And today you are like that, and you are only stealing and hiding in a beautiful phrase. Well, I want to pay attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u51	Just a minute. In the end. When we're done discussing the bill, you'll have a final word and you'll talk about it. Please. There can't be two lines. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Nigger, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak, please speak. Come in, Vladimir Kirilovich, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u52	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Deputies! I can't help but say a little bit about the lines and the lines that are echoing here. Don't mention the President's name! The committee. The Committee on Economic Policy considered the draft Ukrainian law on the introduction in Ukraine of the maintenance of officials of all branches of government, in accordance with the rule of law and democracy introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Czernovetsk. The branches of government are densely entraped by the branches of government. This is a fact that needs to be addressed. The bill proposes to share and privatize enterprises under the authority of the central authorities of Ukraine. Cancel all regulatory acts of Ukraine that have established any personal benefits to the officials of the designated authorities. Transfer to the Ministry of Health the known medical facilities that are part of the designated bodies, the funds received to pay off the debts of citizens’ savings. So the bill is extremely radical. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that it is appropriate to send the bill for re-reading. According to the Chief Expert Office, the problem is extremely relevant and important, especially in the area of illegal and excessive benefits and benefits: Unwarrantedly expensive service vehicles, homes, sanatoriums, and so forth. At the same time, the proposals contained in the project require further elaboration and justification in the part concerning the effectiveness of the public authorities. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not support the bill. Of course, it's natural. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government supported the bill in essence and suggested that it be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. I'll add to it. I am personally impressed by the proposal itself, but I share the view that there is much to be said for specific mechanisms. Let the Supreme Council determine, that is the decision of our committee. The Supreme Council can do anything but what it can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u53	For three minutes, please sign up for the question, Your Honor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u54	Gregory Manchulenko, 203rd District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Your Honor, there is no doubt that the new power, the new president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, and the program with which he won the presidential election is aimed at social justice. I think our power, our political power, our bloc and the new government that's going to be formed, I think in the near future, I believe this is exactly what it should be doing in this direction. Because those capitals, which were not fair ways to do it, because of the legal way to do it, they have to be returned to the people in which they actually, these costs, these capitals, were stolen. I think we need to move in this direction. And what do you think this bill is going to work in that direction if it's adopted? Are there any underwater reefs here? Because social justice should prevail, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u55	I made my personal point by saying that I generally accept this idea, these proposals, and I think that's in the same direction that the new government should be in. Many things were declared before the elections, and now it is time to make promises. Elections are a fair of promises, and after the election, it's time to do them. No one has yet been able to fulfill the promise completely, but at least we should try to keep it as far as possible. So I think the adoption of the bill will help. At the same time, I share the findings of the Chief Research Administration and our Committee that not all proposals are well-founded and some of them can be harmful. For example, when it comes to the transfer of health - care services to the Ministry of Health, for example, the question of whether this will improve the quality of care. In addition, there is a problem of quality, efficiency, and efficiency. And will do much to improve the quality of what is offered here. I would say in general that this problem needs to be known in the context of public service reform. That's the problem. We need to reform the public service. And some of the proposals of the bill, I think you can use them, they're right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u56	Vladimir Yeshchenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u57	Fucking Communist faction. Mr. Cherniak, I'm drawing your attention to your replica, which cannot be called the name of today's President. We said, and Alla Alexandrovska said correctly, Czernovecki, he's President Yushchenk's advisor, and he has to be responsible for what he's carrying from this rostrum. That's the first one. The other one. I'm going back to the question of Alla Alexandrowski on the nationalization of strategic objects in Ukraine, including the Chrysalis. How do you react as a representative of the Economic Committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u58	I did not say that I should not mention the President’s name. If we stop mentioning his name, he will no longer be president. When De Gaulle opened an early newspaper and did not see cartoons, eating cartoons on himself, he said: ‘ Bad things are my business, I’ve stopped being popular. The only thing I said was, you don't have to mention the President's name. It's in vain, that's where he's not to be mentioned. And in general, we have to criticize the President all the time. And that's normal in a democratic country. I'd like you to understand my position correctly. I also said it in a sense with humor. And secondly, regarding "Criminals." Clearly, the privatisation of the Crimsons, as well as many other objects, was not transparent, that the price was low. And so there is a need for a lawsuit to review this privatization, to announce a new tender, a new competition, to determine the right price. And so these are the people who will pay this price and make them effective owners. I think this selectively new authority should do it. It's not about the politics of privatization and nationalization. Although perhaps this is not excluded as an exception. And it's about reviewing the resonant privatizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u59	Thank you, Volodymyr Kirilovich. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please have the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. George Ponomarenko, Communist faction. Get ready, Mironka. We agreed on 10 minutes. So three speakers and then a summary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u60	George Ponomarenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the author's draft of the bill contains extremely important issues relevant to social issues. Indeed, high - ranking individuals in Ukraine have illegal and excessive benefits, expensive service cars, dowries, sanatoriums, and so forth. The Communist faction, and about this today, the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich, raised the question that the former President Kuchmi had been granted excessive benefits. I agree that this issue should be regulated by the Presidential Act. And while there is no such law, the principle is that you, me, me, you. Leonid Chernewicki in his bill proposes that all normative acts be abolished with different "secret" terms, "in secret", "publishing is not appropriate", "consistent". If there were no such griffins, Leonid Mikhajlovich would probably know what is the President's mandate of 164-RP of June 14, 2001, signed by Kuchma under the heading "not subject to publication." Here's the arrangement. This is about the service and safety of former Prime Minister Yushchenk. It provides for the permanent use of the State House, transportation services, two guards for two years, family health care and sanitary services, free travel at the expense of the Cabinet of Ministers, housing and utility benefits. So there's nothing new. I told you in June 2001 -- you were my son in January 2005. I agree with Leonid Chernewicke's offer to resolve the issue of repayment of lost deposits. The Communist faction introduced such a bill. You know, he was here yesterday and he was accepted in the first reading. Regarding health institutions, Shevchuk raised this question, we supported the idea if Leonid Mikhajlovich proposed to create a fund for the rest of the workers, not the elite. If Mr. Chernewsky offered nationalization of the base, we would agree with him. And today he came out with the idea of social justice, he would come out of this hall, he'd sit in his Maybach for a few thousand dollars, and he'd have a social idea coming with him, and everything would stay the way it was. We will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u61	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u62	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable compatriots, life shows that Gogolev heroes are immortal. As a result of the resuscitation of capitalism, thousands of Chichikovskys are now withdrawing from Ukraine-Russia in search of any privatization, “acceptance”, profit by any means. They take away their dead souls, and our Ukraine, our uncle Sam's country, so as not to be tormented with the eternal question, "Russia, where are you going?" The bill currently under consideration will be welcomed by the native Chichiks, for the title and preamble as bait for the naive are the words of streamlining the content of officials and eliminating their benefits. But already in the first article, what the native "uncles" want is to help them breed many Bulgarian "schvonders" and "charics" based on the principle of "take and divide". I'm paying attention to the first sex. Montenegro's draft law: "For five months since the adoption of this law, in the order established by law, to act and privatise enterprises." I stress these words “to activate and privatize”, i.e. the question is once again raised in the draft law on the need for privatization. For the sake of who, the poor? The poor don't have any money. For the benefit of the rich who robbed the people through privatization, price leave, huge bank interest on credit, which is granted to domestic entrepreneurs as a result of the destruction of the domestic economy, thus destroying the people. They want to make a living on it. And now, strangely enough, a reverent desire for self-sustainment smiles, although it manifests this orientation. I cannot agree with this approach, and I believe that we must agree with scientific and expert management to work out, to throw out this article on privatization. And he would call upon similar authors, such as Czernovetski, not to submit these bills at last, but to the people to understand that personal interests, privatization interests, the interests of further looting of the people are openly protected. Please make a decision, discard the oligarchs that already exist in our Ukraine, and there are a huge number of them near Yushchenka. Throw the oligarchs away from power, otherwise the legislative, executive and presidential powers will serve the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u63	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Agrarian Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u64	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MP! Our fellow MP, Mr. Chernewsky, is proposing an extremely important question for legal order. It is not a secret that it is the subject of persistent accusations of authority that has produced in its interests a system of largely opaque encouragement for certain categories of officials, categories that contradict and in general contradict the national understanding of democracy. Let's be honest: this system exists because it's out of society control, although it feeds on its juices, more specifically taxes. In a broad context, the aid system allows the state to manipulate the entire population, conjuncturally encouraging the harm of others — military officials, teachers, pensioners, children, and so endlessly. So there is hardly any doubt that another system is needed. Did Mr. Chernewicki offer it in his bill? I would very much like to say yes in a spirit of time, but unfortunately it's not that clear. For example, in the second paragraph, it is suggested that all of the normative acts by which officials are granted any personal benefits and privileges. If after that we could see at least a list of such acts and find out who these people are, we could vote with a clear conscience either in favour or against. Yeah, you're starting to think, all of a sudden, you're voting against some genius? Is it not better to have one high - professional, high - paying worker than five or ten of them, of which the meaning of a cap of milk is better. In other words, since we're not starting with a white, clean letter, any general approach is hardly justified. The outcome could be, by the way, and in a well-worked state policy, pay for work on an appropriate scale with mandatory inflationary compensation to ensure that the salary or pension is guaranteed for the well-being of a person to say, "To live on a single salary!" - stopped being sarcastic. In paragraph 4, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes, for a period of two months, that the law be passed for approval by the Supreme Council, a programme for the use of the funds derived from the stock and privatization of a large number of objects belonging to the central authorities. I have no idea how this can be done when, according to paragraph 1 of the same bill, stockpiling and privatization is scheduled to take place within five months of the adoption of this law. How can you share the skin of an unkilled bear? I'm not going to comment on other positions, because I have to finish, and I'm going to say that I'd really like to see this really important document in another way, where the morally-ethical approaches that I have completely supported have been provided legally. I hope so on my first reading again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u65	Yes, Your Honor, we're finalizing the bill. One moment, dear fellows. Now. Motives before the vote. You have one minute, please, Leonid Mikhailovich, to say the closing word for the outcome of the discussion. And then we're going to write it in terms of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! It was very noble that the Secretariat had put the matter first, and I had the opportunity to tell all Ukrainian citizens who were listening to us for five minutes that it was possible to pay back the money on the books. Everything else that has now been cited as arguments is from Lukas, only to take this law further. Let these continue to build new sanatoriums, holiday homes for the powerful. Each ministry has thousands of them, all of them causing great harm and loss. And I want to tell you that I'm going to find it very strange that the Communists once supported this bill and now they're going to hear that you're criticizing me with it, but it's kind of inconsistent and it's not like that. Under the flag you put up, right? - and vote in favour of the law on elimination. You don't have to plow away the benefits and privileges that you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u67	Yes, thank you. For reasons of vote, please sign up for 3 minutes. We'll give it to you separately because you were the 4th. Please sign up. I said you'd get it separately. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Nosenko, please. Then Sergey Shevchuk. Nosenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u68	Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction. Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u69	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u70	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters! The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this law. Why? The author, representing the interests of our Ukraine, proposes to privatize sanatorium institutions, which will, of course, be the first to restrict the access of representatives of trade union organizations and workers in general to travel. That's a first. Second. This will lead to a sharp increase in the cost of travel. Third. This will certainly lead to the disappearance of family rest and recovery. This, of course, will lead to re-profiling, as they did, taking the last sanatorium for the treatment of tuberculosis patients, took it for themselves. In the fourth. This is a decline in health care and health care. I would like you to know that, such as the author of the law, they have privatized factories and factories. What do you get dividends? The same factory in Konotap "Motordetal", which the author attached.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u71	Sergey Shevchuk, please. Please turn on 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Sometimes we hear when there are some flaws in the bills that we say let's take on the first reading and then we'll make it right. I would like to remind the audience that usually, until the second reading, the author’s amendment, which disagrees with the concept of first reading, takes place only in fifty percent of the time. That is, if the law is imperfect, it must be improved on first reading. And please pass the word in time remaining, Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u73	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u74	Thank you. Only one stroke, I couldn't tell him. It is proposed that this money be sent to repay the debt for the sadly known contributions to the USSR Savings Fund for the worthless securities, bonds, and so forth. And in this connection, realizing that the Czernowetsksky deputy obviously knows where the money was, to which capital they went, and so on, I would suggest that I actually fight for their return. And to do that, you have to work with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u75	Yes. Peter Simonenko, 10 seconds to complete the sentence. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u76	The author of the bill privatized Motordetal in the city of Konotape, which became Motordetal Pravex, and instead of 5,000 workers, there were only 1,000 workers. This is how it is used, and none of these workers are entitled to recovery today, virtually because the level of wages does not allow it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u77	Thank you, Anatoly Mokrousov. "The only Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u78	Give it to the One, be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u79	Is Anatoly Mokrousov there?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u80	I'd like to give the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, well, I'm asking you, well, I still distinguish people, well, you can't lie like that. Please calm down, Andrew School, please. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u82	Thank you. I think we need to look at the question here. I want my colleague Zarubinsky here. I actually want to support what we have to do. The Supreme Council should now work in a positive way. And this positive key is that we should now demonstrate at least this not illusional, but illustrative unity. That's why I think. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u83	Yes. Carmazine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u84	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yushchenka's block. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole of Ukraine is now forced to discuss the signing by Santa Azar of an illegal government order to provide services and protection to the former President of Ukraine. I have asked and addressed Vladimir Mihajlovich, because it is up to us exclusively, please give orders for urgent consideration and for the meeting of the Supreme Council directly this week by the relevant Committees of the following documents: first, the regulatory order to amend the Rules of Procedure on the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The second, on the issues of legal policy, the activities of the law-enforcement authorities, the Law on Temporary Investigators, the Special Commissions, the State Building -- the order to return to the second reading of the draft Law on the President. So that we can settle all the necessary issues. Then it's going to be necessary to call off my project on the President's office, because in the third reading mode, we can't do that. Now it is about an illegal government decree that has a bearing on this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u85	Give me 10 seconds to complete the final questions of Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u86	Thank you. President Kuchmi has two cars, four drivers, one cook, two maids, two waiters, one counselor, two assistants. Pay's coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u87	Yuri Anatoliyovich, this decree has already been read, Yuri Anatolyov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u88	The rent will do. That's what I'm talking about. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Helmut Kollu is represented by one Mercedes, Helmut Kollu, Valery Giscar Destenu, one car, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Microphone, please, that's all. Honourable National Deputies, discussing a bill to organize in Ukraine the retention of officials of all branches of government in accordance with the rule of law and the democratic state has been completed. Before you vote, I'd like to draw your attention to paragraph one, where we're talking about enterprises and units that ensure the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So you were supposed to take all this into account in the populean movement. Such a bill is needed, but the Ukrainian people need it. And we didn't move from one hand to another. Therefore, taking into account the discussions and proposals made by the committee, I am voting on a draft Ukrainian law to adopt it as a basis for organizing in Ukraine the issues of retaining officials of all branches of government in accordance with the rule of law and democracy. Registration number 6201, please identify yourself. [[11:57:21]] For-98 The decision is not taken. It was suggested that the committee send this project for further development. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to identify yourself. I'd like to make a statement. Was there an offer for reprocessing? I'll put her to the vote. [[11:57:44]] For-88 The bill was rejected. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” - 58, Communist faction - 1, “Regions of Ukraine” - 5, National Agrarian Party - 1, SDPU - 1, “One Ukraine” - 12, “SPU - 4, “Timoshenko Block - 1, “Soyuz” - 0, “Industries and Entrepreneurs” - 0, “Democratic Ukraine” - 1, “Republic” - 0, “Democratic Initiatives” - 0, “Centre” - 0, “Place” - 0, “Democratic Ukraine” - 4. Ladies and gentlemen, a 30-minute recess is scheduled for up to 12 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, we will continue our morning session. Now we have to consider the draft Law on Bread and Breadmaking, registration numbers 5270, 4195. According to Bill 5270, the author of the bill asks him to withdraw, Vladimir Sklar, for further processing. The author of the following bill, 4195 - Cuzko Vasil Petrovich. I can't see. Yes, from the Committee of Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Same thing. Well, check in with the procedure for three minutes. Yes, please, Puzakov, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u92	Please, it's Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u93	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I work for the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee. I inform you that Bill 4195 - on Social Bread on the Committee has not been considered. In my opinion, without the Committee's conclusion to submit this bill to the Supreme Council, it would not be necessary to consider, especially, that there are issues to be resolved by specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u94	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u95	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! The struggle for social justice, which we have seen today and in the first law, we know has always ended with one thing: unfortunately, the people have always lost. That's how it is in this situation. There is such a situation that, under the good idea of protecting the socially unprotected sectors of the population, we will clear the way for monopolies to produce bread-boiled products, we will create an enabling environment, thereby wiping out competitors, those who can provide, indeed, cheap bread-boiled pensioners, socially vulnerable layers. Therefore, in a large way, both bills must now be removed, taken away and filled with the content that is in the idea, not what is in the law today, in order to ensure that someone is monopolized in the market for this product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u96	Please, Demyohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. Vladimir Demehin, Herson, faction of the "One Ukraine" party. It is not the first time that we have had a situation where laws that have not passed the committee are included in the agenda, or the last incident, when we have a bill on the agenda for the replacement of what was previously submitted, has not been considered by the Committee. We now have the same situation: no rapporteurs, no opinion from the Committee. I therefore propose, I support the opinion of the previous colleague of Matvienkov: these bills need to be withdrawn and finalized. They're important, that's what we use every day. Bread is, so to speak, an essential product for socially vulnerable categories and must be given serious attention. That is why I propose not to consider these bills today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u98	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u99	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I think it's going to be necessary to look at the following documents, if the person is not actually speaking and the document isn't ready, then we don't have to take that much time. What's more, if there's the conclusions of the relevant committees as negative. And let's move on to work, and what's more, I really want my 609 law on strategic assignment objects to be considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u100	Yes, Nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u101	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Democratic Ukraine, Gluhovsky 160th District, Sumščina. Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to take the procedure. Two years will soon pass as the bill on social bread is on the Committee of Agrarians. What is the reason why it is not being considered? Is this done consciously? Everyone knows, and I want to say once again, that despite the price of grain, between 300 and 1,100 dollars per tonne, the bread did not change. The question is, Who bears the responsibility that all this margin is placed in separate pockets? I'm asking you to give a separate commission to expedite the consideration of these laws. Only a session hall can lift the initiative of a national MP, not a committee that deliberately destroys these social laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u102	Now we'll listen to the committee. Please, Tereshuk Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Bill on Bread and Breadwork was withdrawn today, and the bill was withdrawn. Tsushka Petrovich's bill was not discussed on the committee, so we have no reason to consider it in the session room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all of you who have spoken, have rightly and wisely talked about the fact that we sometimes allow unfavorableness with you. And that's why all of this is done. At first, the authors, using all the power of their talent, are doing everything they can to get their bills into the agenda, and then by bypassing the factions, knowing the factions' attitude towards a bill or a bill, they're running here, they're lying in front of the stand, and they're asking, using all the talent, "take off my bill." Let's do it more wisely and not waste any time. Once a bill has been introduced, let it be considered and decided by the Supreme Council. But since we're in a situation where there's no one to ask about the bills right now, because there's no one to report on it, then we're here today, unfortunately, and we can't consider it. But I'm making a point to the people's deputies and the committee on what. But we've already written it down for a reason. The next question will be. We are now moving on to the next issue of the "short procedure" bill under number 3622 of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. [[on liquor companies]] Please, Simonenko. Simonenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u105	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose not to consider this bill, but to consider the initiatives and to propose to the government that it be a state monopoly on all potash and tobacco factories, including because today we have a problem with budget filling, and this source gives at least 30 percent of the budget's revenue. And second. Adam Ivanovich, before considering including the previous bread law, should provide information on why this year the grain traders collected 400-500 dollars per tonne of grain and sold 1,000-1,200 dollars per tonne on the bread shops. And what we're talking about is, for poor people, they should be baking bread soon, so to speak. And there are children there, and there are many other things, so to speak, that arise as a question. So what I'm proposing today is, first of all, to look at the results and conclusions as a projection of the economic situation and the situation in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u106	Yeah, I know, I know. Here is a letter from the drafters of the bill calling off their bill. They're calling it off. So he's not in the day-to-day, and he's being rejected by the drafters, and we're rejecting him. called off, and we're not looking at it. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, 5693. [[on the restoration of citizens' right to free privatization of public property]] People's Deputy Lebedivsky. The same Lebedivsky asks him to call it off. Let's call it off. Next question. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 5766. [[on domestic oil and gas mining in Ukraine's exclusive maritime economic zone]] Communicator of the People's Deputy, Francis Igor Anatoliyovich. Please, three minutes. Prepare for the Skomarowski Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This bill has been drafted and introduced for your consideration with a view to creating a legal environment for the development of domestic oil and gas production in Ukraine's exclusive maritime economic zone. This is not about neutral waters or border waters. This is exclusively the maritime economic zone of Ukraine. The existing legal framework, which regulates the crossing of the maritime customs border, does not take into account the characteristics of the production activities of oil and gas mining enterprises that carry out exploration, construction, exploitation of hydrocarbons on the Black Sea and the Azov Sea shelf. Such work has now been carried out exclusively in the twelfth-mile zone. However, the entire prospect of sea mining is linked to the development of hydrocarbon resources that lie outside Ukraine's State and customs borders on deep water. If the proposed draft law is not adopted, the transfer of all cargo by technological vessels to drilling facilities, sea stationary platforms and back to shore will have to be processed in full customs procedure, such as exports and imports of goods. This will significantly increase the time frame for the development of new sites and lead to a significant increase in hydrocarbon resources, which will inevitably reduce the investment attractiveness of such projects and the competitiveness of domestic gas-producing enterprises. It should be noted that we have found full understanding and support of the need to amend the Ukrainian Customs Code and the Single Customs Tariff Act. In the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers are here today. Today's problem of not accepting these changes exists, and today it does have a negative impact on the work of the only national, I repeat, the Blackmoreneftegaz enterprises. Where virtually all, not only technological goods, but also, starting from food products, if they operate under the law, must be suppressed and then, when imported back into the territory of Ukraine, disposed of. That, given the operational nature of the work, it is virtually impossible to do so today. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u108	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households and Investments, Skomarowski Volodymyrovich. No, please, First Deputy Demyohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u109	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is that the Customs Code has been in place long enough. And here we are periodically, have you noticed, are we coming back? Because there are indeed sins and life itself indicates where corrections are to be made. The issue of the cabotage movement of ships is essentially our territorial waters, when customs is being processed, is not just a delay, we are thus a delay in the movement of goods, equipment, human delivery, food. We thus give, in general, a tool to abuse our customs authorities. We have therefore considered the bill on the Committee, and we believe it is very relevant, necessary and, if not, acceptable to the people's deputies in general as the Law. There is one comment that has been made by the Scientific and Expert Administration, what about this and we will not make declarations? Yeah, I won't. We're going to Europe with you. We've set the goal of doing business civilizedly. Thus, here are the declarations when movement takes place within our substantive territory. Let us support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u110	Let's talk. Please, Solomonine, the Communist faction. Get ready, Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u111	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is a group or institution in each state that is spoken of as a state. That's exactly the state of the country's NAK Naftogaz Ukraine and its institutions that are offering us a bill to consider. I want you and I to imagine a very simple situation. Somewhere in the sea is a platform that drills wells. In the event that the proposals contained in this bill are accepted, the Border Service controls everything that comes and goes on this platform neither by those cabotage ships that will come and transport from the shore nor by those that can dock to this platform from the sea, and I think it's uncontrollable. So I'd like you and I to come up and look at this from a state perspective. Do we not make the bill marked a hole in the state border of Ukraine when uncontrollablely on the part of the open sea there will be so-called communication of interested persons with those on this platform. I didn't see anything in the bill that could give us reason to believe that the interests of the state in this sense would be preserved and there would be no violations. At present, there is likely to be a gap at the legislative level for such possible violations. When I finish my speech, I want to say the following on this point. The bill is very interesting. But accepting it even in the first reading would be very dangerous. And I would like to send it back to second reading so that the drafters can answer those questions that have been asked by the Scientific and Scientific Administration, both on economic issues and on legal issues, and including those that I have proposed in my speech. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u112	First we're going to look at it first, then we're going to look at the second. Please, Masenko, the Communist faction. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u113	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, distinguished radio audiences, voters. In my opinion, this bill provides for us to decide and, as they say, privatize areas of the border, because we already have illegally "adopted" in the country, already everyone who wanted to, shouted, twisted from what has been done by our people for decades, and now let's get to the borders and, look, we're going to have a profit. In my opinion, this law cannot be absolutely supported and voted for. But in this regard, I would like to say something like this. And the question is, who's going to be dealing with these questions that are set out in this bill? And it's not just in this field, it's oil and gas, it's also in all the business structures, it's in my opinion, it's all shaded up, it's all covered up. We don't know, but I'm meeting with voters, and they're asking me, is it true in Poltavska that he owns these oil wells that are still my colleague from the socialist faction? And I can't say whether or not I can. I haven't seen the papers, but it's all classified, everything's closed. So in my view, once we've come to an open activity, as before, let's say there's a cook and a k, it's like that, for example, it's not about the cook, there. Or "Masenko and K" is such an enterprise. And all people see how this business works, who does it work for, what does it produce? And we have, how do we go about trying, whose business is this, whose business is this, what does it do, what money is based on? It's just for the right people, it's all covered up. We can't find anyone who owns this production. So I think there's nothing to hide from people, nothing to hide from the people. There's a new power coming, it's going to be new, I'm going to be talking to businessmen -- open up now! Write where your businesses are, and I'll see how they work, and I'll tell the voters, look, there's a master, there's a good job, honest jobs, he's creating, and he's paying. And then in Russian, "walker," he doesn't do anything, he needs to be eliminated. And so it is reserved for women, and for nephews, and for grandchildren, and you will find nothing. So, I think the most important point in this bill is that we know who's going to be dealing with these issues by name, so that we can decide whether or not. If honest people were to vote, they could vote, but most of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u114	Unfortunately, in the laws, Alexander Mikolaiovich, we don't write names. Please, Zarubinsky, the faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u115	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine I, Your Honor, will speak with your permission about the bill, not about other things, important, but which have nothing to do with the bill. Because I studied him, the bill. Dear colleagues, there are a few questions that I think need analysis, and perhaps consideration if this bill is adopted in the first reading. First, it was said that there could be declarations, customs declarations, if that's Ukrainian territory. These are different things, Your Honor. When it comes to the exclusive economic zone of the sea, and that is what this is about, it is not an area that can be deprived of customs control. And there's no such thing as that in all the countries of the world. I mean, there have to be declarations. Another problem is that the declaration mechanism or instruments may be different, relieved if they, in fact, as you said correctly, do not enter neutral waters. Next, everyone pays attention to just one position of this bill, where ships are said to be cabotage and so on and so forth. But there are also changes in the second paragraph of article 29, in particular the exemption from the customs treatment of fish products produced by Ukrainian courts within the Black Sea Basin. Once so, the question is, according to Ukrainian legislation, there has to be a decision of the Customs Tariff Council. And I know that today's Customs Council decision is not appropriate. On the other hand, why is it necessary? Because in paragraph (c) of the drafters propose to complete article 19 of the Ukrainian Act "On the One Customs Tariff" with a certain list of goods. So it falls under the necessity of a decision, a conclusion, a positive conclusion, on the part of the Customs Tariff Board. And finally. The questions raised in the bill are very important. In fact, what we're all saying is that it's very fashionable to say right now about Ukraine's energy security. This is about increasing the production of its own oil, its own fuel. And in this context, I think the bill should just be supported, but we need to prevent all of these possible negatives, including, as was rightly said, possible smuggling when it's implemented. Therefore, it seems to me that if we can support him in the first reading, we cannot today speak of support for the whole of this bill. There are things that need to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u116	Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u117	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Honourable National MPs, one of the modern classics, former prime minister of Ukraine's responsibilities, said he needed only one meter of the state border -- all of it, and all of the questions would be solved economically. This law deals not only with one metre of the State’s border. More specifically, he's putting it in the courts, but to make it clear to our audiences, what he's talking about is that the Customs Code is complemented by additions, where cabotage vessels are also subject to installations and structures for exploration and extraction of hydrocarbon resources that also conduct seismological, engineering and geological, environmental research in the exclusive marine economic zone. And the second question. This movement across the customs border is just the kind of cargo that's being talked about right now, and it's to ensure the functioning of the surveillance facilities and the coal mining facilities. Water resources, engineering, environmental research in the exclusive marine ecological zone. Of course, I agree that there are observations about the adoption of this law and, if you think about allowing the movement across the customs borders of these technological cargoes, which are designed to ensure the functioning of installations and structures from exploration and extraction of the carbon dioxide resources, to carry out the work in question, this is actually going to mean that there is no customs control over the movement of these goods. And here, if there's no control around here, you can predict any kind of smuggling. I mean, you have to write these warnings into this law if you're going to add them that won't allow it. There are no such warnings yet. In addition, I would like to see the exact cost of this particular raw material that is extracted exclusively in the sea economic zone of Ukraine. I want to understand why little Norway can export oil, and we're still dependent on the Russian Federation. I want to understand why we don't supply ourselves with oil from what's here. Great depths? Yeah, great depths. Let's share with those countries that will give us this. I am already addressing a new government, including Mrs. Julia Timoshenko. And I'd like to see the conclusion of the Cabmine Customs Council. Under these conditions, the law can be passed, and so far I do not see these conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Yes, please, from the Budget Committee, what is your opinion? One minute. Baranovo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. On December 15, last year, the Budget Committee considered the bill. I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that the adoption of this bill has an impact on the income part of the budget. Therefore, if there is even the will of the deputies who will accept this bill today, bear in mind that it may enter into force not earlier than 1 January 2006. And once again, I emphasize, it affects the income part of the budget. Therefore, we need to approach the adoption of this bill with sufficient and careful care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u120	Please, in a minute. Semenyuk. Behind her is a black man. Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u121	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In my time, I had to make a constitutional application to the Land Code Court and the Production Allocation Agreements Act and, by applying to the Vienna Convention on the Conservation of the Sea Zone and Coastal Zone, to win that Constitutional Court. I'm saying that for what? We have many international conventions to sign and ratify in the session room today. And I would like us to speak already, having an appropriate convention, to protect the interests of the state by signing such agreements. And then we get there, we rob first, and then we sign the agreements, but we're actually going to defend ours on international law. So I would like Adam Ivanovich to be a protocol commission for the Vienna Convention for the Conservation of the Sea Zone. And this is going to be national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u122	Please, it's Black Vladimir's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! There are two sides to the problem. On the one hand, it is inappropriate to delay the customs treatment of cabotage vessels, on the other hand, there is a danger of abuse. How can we reduce delays and avoid abuse? It is necessary not to cancel the declaration, but to change the way it is declared and customs control, to simplify it. I think that's the way out. The bill focuses on one side of the problem of avoiding delays. More detail should be given: How to avoid abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u124	Question completed. We'll make decisions. I put to the vote, on the adoption of the draft Act in its first reading, on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on domestic oil and gas extraction in Ukraine's exclusive maritime, economic zone. Registration number 5766. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:01:53]] For-54 Shall we try again first? I'm making a motion for re-reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:02:21]] For-68 The bill was rejected. We turn to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatization Laws on Criteria for Defining Strategic Objects. Here we have two bills, 609 and 4360. Yet, the drafters of the 4360 - Vasyunnik - Yehanurov Bill, Pinzenik, are revoking their bill. That's why we're only going to be looking at one bill, which is written by the National MP, Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. 6009, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u125	Thank you. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the special review committee not only analyzes and sees the consequences of the violations, but we are trying to make proposals that would make it impossible to read and that would allow for violations, especially during privatization. We have reported in detail at parliamentary hearings that the State has in fact lost ownership of oil, communications, transportation, communications, and the production of raw materials for the aluminum industry. Directly for energy-sharing enterprises that are strategically important for the economy and security of the State. Today, our businesses are owned by citizens of other nations and directly affect even internal and external policies. Many enterprises that are privatized are causing terrible economic damage in areas because they are privatized with appropriate violations and with the help of the courts. Our bill, aimed at ensuring economic security, proposes objects of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State, to refer to the list of objects prohibited from privatization. This goal today is characterized primarily by other factors. Today, according to privatization legislation, great privatization is actually being privatized through a small privatization scheme, i.e. a large enterprise is privatized under the kiosk scheme. Therefore, such objects, which are strategically important for the economy and security of the State, should be included in the ban on privatization. In addition, in article 12, we offer to make changes. Today, privatization can come not only from the Cabinet of Ministers but from buyers. It turns out that we have people who are rich, who are going to the State Property Fund, who are going to privatize it and do it not on a privatization programme, but on a separate, appropriate proposal. And if the State Property Fund or the Cabinet of Ministers are willing to refuse this offer, he will appeal to the court, and it turns out that the State is obliged to sell it to him. So this rule we, as far as buyers are concerned, should still be removed, because we are responsible with you for the economic security of the state. Very many of the points we saw during the detailed analysis. Adam Ivanovich, if I may, I'm a little bit more.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u127	During a detailed analysis of the use of privatization sites by courts, but at this time it is not yet in Kabmin and not in the Maintenance Fund, but at this time it is renting, reselling, transferring to statutory funds, and we lose such facilities. So this bill was supported by the Economic Policy Committee, a special review committee, and it needs it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u128	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u129	An immediate reception, coming out of the main. On December 23, 2004, a decree issued by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1734 confirmed the lists of strategically important objects and the criteria were not actually set out. So this list is already being reduced by Kabmin's own decision. Thus, this bill allows us today to identify strategic targets, to refer them to a list of objects that are not allowed to be privatized. And you and I will work together in this room, and this list in the session room will be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u130	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 12 January, considered a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian privatization laws, which our colleague Valentina Petrovna Semenyuk reported on, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted on the basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion, notes that the first reading of the draft Law may be based on comments made and proposals made. The Committee also proposes that it be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u132	Thank you. Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yeah, I can see a lot of records. Yes, please, Bondarchuk Alexander, the Communist faction. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u133	Dear President, the People's Deputies! We are invited to support a bill that strengthens public oversight of privatization processes that we have so far gone so far that it sometimes seems impossible to stop these processes. We have come to the point that soon, according to the news that is going on in the press, in the new government, the new government will be able to privatize energy-generating companies. So far, it's just the power distribution, but once they privatize the power plants, you know what that's going to do. Therefore, the bill is timely, and I support it as a communist, in the context of a programme with which communists always go to all elections, to suspend, suspend the moratorium on privatization, to reprivatize, and to strengthen the nationalization of privatized enterprises in the basic sectors as a matter of urgency. We support him. In addition, the practice of privatization of many enterprises indicates that the social parameters set out in the sales contracts are not sustained, not implemented, are distributed at the privatization stage of the promise of wage increases, job retention, the improvement of the working conditions in fact is taking place in exactly the opposite process. A number of examples can be found. Well, let's say this is where we got a call from the Stones-Podolsk Auto-Aggregate factory. During the privatization of the enterprise into the statutory fund of the enterprise, a specific housing facility was yet to be completed for 94 apartments. He was included in the housing fund, given that the company, the new owners, had made commitments to deliver it and to sell it to the new workers who were on the line. Indeed, this obligation is not being fulfilled, and this house is not. The association, the enterprise, is part of the Autocraz association, is about to sell it. The residents of this house, the regulars, ask for a monitoring council, the Autotocraz association, to allow the construction of this house to enterprises so that at least a fraction of the housing will be obtained, and they ask Lithuania, the President of the Supreme Council, and our colleague Zivago, who is still involved in Autotocraz, to consider this issue. The condition under which the company was sold was met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u134	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u135	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Corruption, bribery and banditry have been taking place since the first step of privatization. It does not aim at improving the lives of people, but at ensuring and operating market relations and the full randomness of the private owner. The people have selected basic industries that form the basis of public well-being. What did the people get out of it? The new Ukrainians who have adopted enterprises, associations are strangers to concepts such as scientific, scientific and technological developments, the allocation of funds for scientific research and so on. Today, they have one task: to get as much out of existing production as possible, and not to succeed, to release on scrap metal available equipment, which is what they are succeeding in today. For example, in the Kirovograd and Kirovograd region, metal scrap was launched by strategically important industrial giants, former allied enterprises such as Pismash, “Segment”, lithium plant, household combination, a number of sugar and alcohol factories. After the bankruptcy had been suspended, the liquidation commission worked in these enterprises, and then, under the guidance of the CPR, an audit of the business activities of enterprises had been carried out, and the destruction of material values of about $3 million had been detected. Documents were sent to all force structures, district government, but until then neither the Public Prosecutor's Office nor the rest of the entities, including the BSS, had properly assessed such actions. The question is: Who benefits from this? Why do I say that? Indeed, if such actions had been given a timely legal assessment, there would have been no such dissipation of public property, and in some areas almost all industry was considered from the face of the earth. And no one's responsible for that. This policy continues today because the Ukrainian oligarchs who were against Yushchenko yesterday, and who are already on the same team today, will once again demonstrate full disregard for the laws of Ukraine regarding strategic sites, as they had nothing holy and would not have anything but their own gain. There is no limit to corruption in the country today and, unfortunately, is universally permitted. But we Communists should not close our eyes on this, but we should put a barrier on it and say no to the economic crime in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u136	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine Karmazin will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! According to the Ukrainian State Property Fund classification, the H-group privatization sites, in addition to monopolistic enterprises, are enterprises that provide the country's competitive advantages in the production of complex technology and the country's economic independence, unique productions that use rare resources or their combination, intangible assets, beneficial mines, frames, know-how and so on. Today, we can say that, in accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree of May 15, 2003, "The definition of criteria, business-related organizations, organizations to those of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State contains criteria that allow less important enterprises to get to the list. [[I'll take that as an example.]] By the way, more than a thousand enterprises are listed, and really strategic enterprises, on the other hand, are allowed to be either corporate or even privatized. So our colleague Semenyuk's bill is extremely important in terms of where the criteria are and how they are to be determined -- whether this enterprise is strategic, appropriately falls into this category, which provides for Ukraine's national economic security, or whether there are other moments of often lobbyist nature to be included in this category of enterprises. The problem raised by my colleague Semenyuk is important, and because we don't talk about it today, but almost 70 percent of Ukrainian color metallurgy is managed by another country's capital. More than 36 percent of the energy distribution from another country. Over 33 percent of black metallurgy is capital from another country. Even 38 percent of Ukrainian television is managed by capital from another country. I'm not going to call this country, that's not it. The thing is that really strategic objects that are necessary for Ukraine's national security are not often in the Ukrainians, not in the hands of our country. But here's a reference to Valentina Petrovna's bill. It correctly defines that this should not be a determination to define these criteria, but writes in its bill that this should be determined by a separate law. Period. I want to ask you a question -- what's the law? When will he appear? Will it administer, comply with this law, the law on privatization of state property? It seems to me that if, before the second reading, we work on this point and this bill on privatization of state property incorporates the part that relates to the criteria for determining the strategic nature of the enterprise, then we can fully support the whole bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u138	Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! First of all, let me thank Valentina Petrovny for proposing this bill, which she proposed in the summer, and if we accepted it faster, it might not still be privatized because, given the current privatisation phase, when special attractive enterprises are offered for sale, which are strategically important for the economy and security of the state, it is determined that the initiative to privatise state property is based on the State Privatisation Programme itself. True, I would very much like to see us privatize municipal property. I would very much like the new government to reach the legitimacy of privatization, both strategic and nonstrategic. I would very much like the new authorities to come to terms with privatization, and they are not executed on any subject, and no one wants to control how this is done. In particular, the State Property Fund, which has actually become an agency for the sale of state property, not a State Property Fund. And I'm going to tell you that there's a big problem in dealing with issues related to communal property. Everyone who was in the pearl of Ukraine, in Odessa, knows what Passion is. They know this hotel is fantastic, big. Thus, on December 22, 2004, the President's third round of elections, through the Odessa City Council, decided to issue a certificate of ownership of the ZAO "Passage" for the Presbyterian Street building, 34 in Odessa. On January 13, a certificate of ownership was issued. And before that, it was owned by the territorial community of Odessa. It was introduced into the statutory capital of ZAO "Pasage", as a contribution to the Odessa City Council, and on January 14 ownership rights were registered with the authorities that are certifying the inventory, but on January 13th we decided with you to impose temporary restrictions on privatization, where they suspended the execution of decisions, on the incorporation of public property objects into statutory social funds. I'd like that man who's sitting in the General's office today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u140	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, please, Matvienkov, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u141	I'll be a minute. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, when you begin to think about this process of privatization at all, I am reluctantly reminded of the times when we considered privatization to be a panacea of all woes. This is the day we're privatizing everything, tomorrow we're going to live. Then they started using privatization as a replenishment mechanism and saying that this is what we're selling, and the country is starting to live normally, the pensioners will start to live normally. But most importantly, privatization is a mechanism for finding an effective owner. And unfortunately, that's what they're starting to forget very quickly. And I am very sorry that Mr. Pinzenik has just withdrawn his own bill, which has required serious large bills to be considered under a separate law. Because it is this approach that allows today to put the interests of the country first, the interests of the labour community, the interests of the region, and then the interests, so to speak, of some private people. We've privatized Krudprom. What did we get? Today, 3 million tons of iron and iron ore have been cut short, and 17 million tons of iron and steel have been exported to Ukraine this year at no cost. The Metallurgy did not supply 170 million tons of iron last month. How much did the nation miss?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u142	Please, Hinzburg a minute, behind her, Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u143	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ginsburg, the Communist faction. I would like to make such a suggestion. We will consider the Work Government Programme, the Government Programme. And in this Programme, Governments should reflect such points on the approach to privatization, including the moment when, when we form a budget, we constantly complement the missing money by privatizing certain facilities or enterprises. And that's what happens when these businesses go bankrupt, people lose their wages. And I see, like my Konotap or Six, my district when it's not on the privatization list. They find a moment, they write, we can't privatize, we're doing corporate work. It's almost the same thing. I therefore propose that, when we discuss the Government Programme, we should clearly say those points that we will privatize or not, the Communists oppose the privatization of the facilities today. But to fit in, to pass the law or not to make the law and wait, and suddenly to pass the Semenyuk law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u144	Please, Gurov a minute, he's Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u145	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Dear colleagues, if only we were so smart at least six months ago when they privatized the Krivorozstal, Ukrupprom. The colleague of Matvienkov is now indignant that they have wrongly privatized. Only where you were when you voted when I was speaking and speaking, don't do this nonsense. The point is that everything was done first, and now we are starting to solve all these problems. Over the past year, the Crimson Coastal, that's what everyone's hearing, a billion dollars in net revenue won in less than a full year. And they sold it for four billion. That's the question. It's not about whether or not we need to, it's about who and what conditions. And what they've done with Krudprom must be returned immediately. And factories like Ilicia, Zaporztal should have their place of birth, like Krivoroztal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u146	Please, Motive Black. After him, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, this bill deals with two issues. The first question is the inadequacy of reducing the number of strategically important objects that are not subject to privatization. And the second question. The right of the courts to force the State to sell property is deleted. That is, so that the courts do not take part in the theft of state property. That's why we need to adopt a bill. But there is no solution to the question raised in the title of the law — the criteria for defining strategic objects. It is proposed to amend another law. I think we need to define this issue in this law and solve it. Or take the word "criteria definition" off the label. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u148	Please, Mother microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u149	I have an offer. Don't worry about privatizing or not privatizing. The main reason for all of our troubles is that there is never a goal: for which an enterprise is privatized. If the goals were to stand, if the state were to set a goal -- the development of an enterprise, the search for a return on that enterprise, then there would be other approaches. Today we are privatizing, and then we think about why we are privatizing it. It's also carbon, it's other businesses. Now there's an enterprise in the same state, just like Ukraine's outstanding enterprise and the Quant radio industry, where they've broken into pieces, privatized, and no one understands what it's for. In addition to damaging the state, it does nothing. And that's for many of those businesses. So I think the first thing that any privatization should start with is to define what it's for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u150	I think Vitaly Ivanovich, everyone understands exactly what they're privatising for. They're privatizing to get their own pockets. Nosenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u151	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I believe that the bill amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization is useful for stabilizing the economy and makes it impossible to continue robbing oligarchs of state strategic enterprises, including railways. That is why we Communists will support him in our first reading. Undoubtedly, paragraph two of article five, which refers to the subject of privatization of objects that have a national and strategic significance for the economy and security of the State, as well as for the execution of businesses, is as if the bill were the main motive. Indeed, if the privatisation of strategic enterprises continues at the pace of the President's election before, then our state will be without the importance of economic and social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u152	Matvienkov, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u153	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. With regard to the privatization of Krudprom, I would like to say that Vladimir Seminović Boyko and I have stood in this room, standing and standing, to the detriment of the State. And no one has any moral right to accuse us of not defending this position here in the hall, not outside that room. And with regard to the privatization of "Criminals", I would like to say that if the labour force, together with its electorates, were to become a wall for the protection of its business and not try to become "smart and beautiful", I think today we would not understand the consequences of the privatization of "Criminals" but would work for the benefit of the Power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-02-m0.u154	Question completed. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization, the registration number of the Bill 6009. [[on criteria for defining strategic objects]] Please vote. [[13:30:01]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on the second day in a row, you and I have been following up on the plans that we are planning on one day or another. True, today we were helped by colleagues who recorded a lot of copies of their drafts in connection with the change in the situation in the state. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Since 4:00, we've been working on committees, factions and groups. Tomorrow morning, the beginning of the morning session at 10 a.m.
