ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:02:48]] There were 396 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies, to make proposals, to make inquiries, to make applications, to make statements, and so forth. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council on September 8. We discussed 41 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result, 21 laws and 14 regulations were passed. Five bills were adopted as a basis. One bill is aimed at redrafting, and six bills are rejected. Five laws have been repealed as a result of a review of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Yes, let's move on to the MP's questions. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Anatolysa RACHANSIAH to the President of Ukraine for failure by the Government to resolve issues related to the eviction of residents of the villages of Hottnikove and Orlánka in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose homes were sunk in March 2005 as a result of an emergency. I'm voting on support for the request. Please vote. [[10:04:49]] For a hundred and Request not supported. Victor MUSICI to the Prime Minister for violations of the right to work of the Head of the State Department of Fisheries by the Minister of Agriculture Policy. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Prime Minister for the renovation of the village of Bilovod in the district of Suma. Leonida GRAČ to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the illegal intentions of turning some 6,000 hectares of south and west coasts of Crimea into a luxury-class resort zone. Vassila KALINČUKA to the Prime Minister for the annulment of Cabinet Order No.50 of 15 January 2005 concerning state agricultural enterprises. Jury KROWROČKA to the Prime Minister for the military compliance of the Russian Black Sea fleet in the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Prime Minister on the elimination of the violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine – narrowing the existing rights of citizens to receive a higher-sized pension, which took place when the amendments to the Act on the 2005 State Budget were approved. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister for the social tension that arose among the pensioners of Kyrovgradje in connection with the rise in food prices and necessities. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village L and c o m e r a r a t a r a t a t a a station of the town of Berezovka Odes region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister on the lack of financial resources to implement the city The White Church of delegated powers. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the construction of water dehydration stations in the village of Lubar of the Žitomir region. VICTOR DRACHEVSKI TO THE Prime Minister for a disgruntled response to two parliamentary questions about the elimination of the effects of submerging the village of North and other microregions of the city of Nicopol. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the pension insurance of a participant in the liquidation of the consequences of the accident in the Chernobyl AES resident of the village of Globin County of Poltava. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, for the provision of legal requirements for the payment of salaries to employees of municipal enterprises in Borislav Lvivsk district. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the payment of money by telephone. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in the open-ended company of the “Zavallian Graphite Combined” of the region of Kyvoron in Kirovograd. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the provision of legislative provisions for the restructuring of the Odeski Příportní náměstvo techno-economic analysis of the above-mentioned economic and technical expertise and the results of the environmental audit of the enterprise. [[MASURENKO, WITNESSE, FIX, AND OTHERS]] Michael BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers to finance the completion of the construction of the Novoselické Gymnasium in the region of Chernobyl. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on violations of legislation in the process of sanctioning the Open Shareholder Society “Sambrian Furniture Combined”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the financing of 91 constituencies at the expense of the State Budget in 2005. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister in connection with the insufficient provision for the transport of disabled persons by car in the 69th constituency of the Zitomir region. Mr Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister regarding the intervention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's internal affairs with regard to the translation into the national language of the judiciary. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the absence of funding for subsidies provided for by the State budget. Paul SULKOVSKOVSKI and Jaroslav of the Dry Cabinet of Ministers on ensuring stability in the domestic grain market and on preventing a grain crisis. Michael BAUER to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the transfer of the Ministry of Defence buildings to the Ministry of Education and Science. Leonidas SERGYENKA to the Prime Minister on the social protection of families of military personnel who died in the fighting in Afghanistan. Ms. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister on the appeal of residents of the village of Barvaryvka in the region of Poltava to establish accepted purchase prices for milk produced in the private sector. Leonida Vernigori to the Cabinet of Ministers for the annulment of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 3 January 2002 of the Act of 23 November 1995 amending and supplementing the Law “On the Status of War Veterans” in part of the rights and benefits. Group of National Deputies to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the destruction of Odessa District Skin and Venerology Hospital, for the predatory management of the hospital's lands, for the mass reduction in the number of its medical personnel with violations of the constitutional rights to work and for the protection of health. [[CARMASINE, DELIVERY, KRUČKOV]] Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the acting prime minister’s responsibility to provide modern information and technical means to the Department of History of Ukraine, Ukraine, and the law of the Dniprostate State Technical University. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the prime minister's executive responsibility for financing planned gasification facilities for the cities of Hartzisk and Shakhtarsk, Donetsk, at the expense of state budget subsidies. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Acting Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the violation of the requirements of legislation by officials of the State Audit Service. VADIM MISSURA to the acting Prime Minister's duty to extend loans to individual housing units to civil servants who need to improve their living conditions. MICHELLA AND VALLERY OF SAMPLAV to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for compensation for unused sanatorium trips in 2003 to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the executive duty of the Prime Minister regarding the preservation of administrative structures, ownership, and the land area of the closed Horlovský SPOT 21st Herson district. Alexander KUZMUKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the transfer of military towns in the Kyiv garrison to the accounting organization. Vitalia OLUIKA to the prime minister's executive responsibility for the state of payroll of the education department staff, the methodists of the regional methodical offices. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister for funding “Programme for Informatics of Public Schools, Computerization of Rural Schools” and the acquisition of school buses in Kitzman Election District No.203. Jury CARMAZIN to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, Attorney General, Head of the Board, Minister of Internal Affairs on the abuse of power, corruption by individual directors of the State Company, Ukrattransgaz. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General for the abuse by officials of the Open Shareholders Association “Chernowiech sugar plant” in the region of Chernovetsek in the alienation of the hostel, which led to the illegal eviction of citizens. Mr. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General for a violation of the law of the lease agreement in the village of the Great Pisarovka District of Suma. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Attorney General for initiating the termination of the contract for the sale of a package of shares of the State Shareholder Holding Company, the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant, and its return to state ownership. Mr. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the constitutional right to housing of Ms. Nastasuk. Alexander KARENKA to the Attorney General on the violation of the Education Act during the appointment of the Rector of the Suma Regional Institute for Postgraduate Pedagogical Education of Živoděr. Leonida GRAČ to the Attorney General on information from Interfax about the placement of the head of the so-called Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate Michael Denisenko-Philaret $350 million in U.S. and Hong Kong accounts. JANUARY to the Attorney General for lack of response by the military prosecutor of Kharkiv garrison to citizens’ appeals. FIXA to the Attorney General for violating the constitutional right of a national deputy to meet with the electorates of the Yaltin City Council. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General for violations of the constitutional rights of a former employee of the closed stockholder association Cherkasizalizobeton from the management of the company. The National Deputies' Groups to the Attorney-General to verify that the legislation of the Odeski Przystowska przystódních duplicacji Odeški, established by Kabmin for the purpose of further privatization of the enterprise, is in conformity with the legislation of the Open Share Company. [[MASURENKO, WITNESSE, FIX, AND OTHERS]] Jury KARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on a criminal case involving the head of the Kyrovograd District Court of Appeal for the abuse of power, for official falsification. Alexander KARENKA to the Attorney General for violating the People's Deputy Status Act and for re-investigating the facts raised in the parliamentary inquiry. Valery ACPEAN to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the facts of the theft of material values in a particularly large amount in the T.O. “Technointer” city of Kiev. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Attorney-General for the delay in investigating the evidence I have given about the economic crimes of Viktor Medvedczuk and his business associates against Ukraine and its people, which have been carried out for ten years under the auspices of the “Slavic” concert. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Attorney General on the violation by officials of the Department of Forced Enforcement of Decisions of the Department of State Executive Services of the Poltava District Administration of the legal requirements of the Law on Legislative Conduct when evicting the debtor from a non-residential residence in Cherkasa. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the state of criminal investigation of the offence of assault on the life of Victor Yashchenk and delaying the trial process. [[SYVKOVIC, CHEUCHUK, CENTURY]] Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney-General for the illegal privatization of the container terminal of the Illyshiv seaport of the Odessa region. Groups of members of the National Deputies Group to the Attorney-General for failure to execute a court decision by leading the Optimist market in the city of Priluka Chernigiv region. [[DRY, CORSAKOV, COMAR, AND OTHER]] [[DRY, CORSAKOV, COMAR, AND OTHER]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the grounds that citizens have been asked to disregard the constitutional rights of citizens by law enforcement authorities and to suspect corruption in cases of fraud at a particularly large level in the Winnick district of Winnick. [[PERSON, JOURNEY, DELIVERY, AND OTHERS]] Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for conducting a new investigation into the murder of the National Deputy Vasile, excuse me, Vadim Gethtman. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Attorney General on the illegal, anti-constitutional decision of the Volin District Council on the rehabilitation of the UN-OPA, the recognition of it as a warring party and the allocation of one hundred and seventy thousand dollars to strengthen the social protection of former UPA soldiers. Ms. Aleksandra TKALENKA to the Attorney-General for providing unreliable information to the Director-General of the Public Prosecutor's Office by the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the verification of the statement made by Polishchuk of the Bilozer District of the Hersson Region. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General for illegal acts and abuse of the office of the head of the Monastery District State Administration, director of the Christian Bargaining Base No. 86 in the interests of a private entrepreneur. Aleksandra MOROZA to the Attorney General regarding the hearing of telephone calls by law enforcement agencies. Olga GINZBOURG to the Attorney General for the illegal detention of the former Deputy Head of the District State Administration of the Suma Region. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General, Minister of Fuel and Energy, Head of the Hmelnicka District Public Administration for the Prevention of Crisis in the Energy Sector of the Hmelnicka District, in the form of a breakdown in the functioning of the energy network as a result of the activities of the management of the Open Shareholder Association of the Energy Company “Hmelnickoblanergo”, which contains signs of criminality. [[CARMASINE, DELIVERY, KRUČKOV]] Igor Schurmi to the Secretary of State on the need for a report on the results of the Vice Prime Minister's post on European Integration. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Minister of Agrarian Politics for the violation of the right to work of the Head of the Department of State for Fisheries. Victor Musiak was already in front of one exact request. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the need to clean up the Belgrade Canal. VADIM MISSURE to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison for Information on the Status of Roads and Measures to Bring It to Satisfy. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Defense to provide information on the impact of the work of the working group on the presence of explosive items on the destroyed Soviet military field. Vassil Nadrag and Alexander Borzih to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the situation surrounding the Luhansk Academy of Internal Affairs. Stanislava PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Defence on speeding up the transfer to municipal property of the city of Covella Military Towns Nos. 19 and 20. Mary MARKUS to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Finance, on the allocation of funds for the disposal of harmful wastes from the bankrupt B e l and to the k b and c and c h o g o wood-chemicals. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Minister of Justice on the legal basis for the return to Ukraine of more than two hundred and fifty million United States dollars stolen from Ukraine’s state budget by former Prime Minister Lazarus, with the participation of today’s Prime Minister Timoshenko, as well as on the development of a procedure to prevent the irreversibility of the Ukrainian budget of confiscating these US funds for U.S. law enforcement agencies to the Federal Court in Washington. I'm also asking you to check the secretariat. Tuesday, we seem to have already sent this request. Mikoli Komara to the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the construction of the Odessa County Hospital. Mr. Alexander CHANOVELEN to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the violation of legislation during the celebration of the Independence Day of Ukraine. JOURIA RUCA to the Minister of Transport and State for the continuation of the contract with the Chief of the Ishmael port. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to confirm the authenticity of a copy of the U.S. Justice and Prosecutor’s Office document filed with the Federal Court in Washington, D.C., requiring confiscation in favour of the U.S. State budget stolen from Ukraine by former Prime Minister Lazarenko at the expense of more than $250 million. Leonida Vernigori to the Supreme Court on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine of Supreme Court ruling No. 4 of 15 May 2005 on the pension of pensioners of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority for the purpose of addressing the students and teachers of the Nicopolian Vocational and Technical School 34 for the removal of the emergency group. Anatolysa RACHAN to the head of the Federation of Professional Associations for Unsatisfactory Response to the MP’s request that the number of children covered by organized forms of healing should not be reduced, resulting in the destruction of children’s day camps in the city of Eupatoria in 2005. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to complete the gasification of the village of Zaturci. The area of Volin district. Mary MARKUSH to the head of the Pension Fund’s governing body for violations of legislation in the area of pension insurance. Well, there are still undisciplined national MPs who throw parliamentary appeals at the table. I'll read them today. But come on. Well, how long is this going to take? I'm sorry. There's a Secretariat, there's standards, and so on. No, everyone thinks he's doing what he's doing. Yuhim FIKSA, Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine for a proper legal assessment of the actions of the First Deputy Minister of Interior of Moscow during his visit to Lvivščina in August 2005. As far as I know, Moscow isn't the first deputy, it's just the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs. Yuhim FIKSA and Igor ŠURMI to the acting prime minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, to assess the actions of Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine Moskal during his visit to Lvivščina in August 2005. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the acting prime minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service on the unsatisfying response of the law enforcement authorities to the parliamentary appeal regarding the threat to Ukraine's national security as a result of the introduction of the computer game “Operation Galicina”. Igora ŠURMI, MP's request to the Attorney-General for failure by the President of Ukraine to implement the Ukrainian Law on the specialities of discharge of persons who combine the parliamentary mandate with other activities. So by factions. “Our Ukraine” – 5, Communist faction – 27, “Regions of Ukraine” – 6, “Social Democratic Party” – 9 plus around 5 additional factions. National Movement of Ukraine – 4, People's Party faction – 7, Socialist Party – 8, Block of Timoshenko – 2, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 3, factions of the political party “Forward Ukraine” – 1, non-fractional – 3. That's about 90 questions. Yeah, we've got four minutes left for the show. We've got four minutes left for the show. In accordance with the Rules, 30 minutes for requests and statements. Please show me who signed up. It takes 30 minutes for everything. Or let us change the norm of the Rules or stick to them. Please, Drozuntsev Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u2	Thank you, dear Adam Ivanovich. I ask you to pass the word to Alexei Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u3	Alexeev Igor, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. There has been a political crisis in Ukraine. It has become a legitimate result of the activities of the orange authorities. Only six months later, the President and the Government were incapacitated. Victor Yushchenko had to admit that the change of personnel in the Ukrainian authorities had not changed the nature of the robbery, that all this time there was a lot of property between the former and the current gangs, whose members were and will be friends of the President. Yushchenko, Moroz and Timoshenko took over neither the team nor the commandos, who, first of all, based on social demagogies, engaged in the looting of the population, the allocation of property, the invasion of the rights of ordinary citizens. The Communists warned the voters that the most dangerous scenario would be realized when Yushchenko and his team came to power in Ukraine. We were right that Yushchenko's regime was flesh from the Kuchma regime. Regrettably, Ukraine's political and economic degradation under the leadership of the oranges has reached critical turnover. From the sovereign Power, the country has become a semi-colonial puppet state in central Europe, where the fullness of power has been concentrated in the hands of a bunch of all-eating presidential cooties and swaths. We are convinced that, by resigning the country's senior leadership, Yushchenko is obliged to share with them the full responsibility for the strategic gaps in the economy, foreign and domestic policies for which the people of Ukraine are now being paid. I mean, he has to retire on his own. In the current political crisis, communists see the only way out of the current situation is through the immediate entry into force of the provisions of political reform. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should assume full authority in Ukraine as the only full State body representing the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u4	Let's talk about what we're going to do, we have two minutes left. Who, in order to give the people's deputies the opportunity to speak in 30 minutes, please vote. [[10:29:34]] For 269 Decision taken. Please, we have 27 minutes left. Puzakov, he's followed by Jemelev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u5	Please pass the word Tkachenko to Aleksandr Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u6	Please? Weaver Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u7	Statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. About the catastrophic situation of the Ukrainian agro-industry complex and the danger of food security. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine draws the attention of the President, the government, the people's deputies to an unprecedented destructive process in Ukraine's agriculture that threatens the food security of the state. For 14 years, there has been a genocide against the 16.5 million rural population that has been deprived of all that has been accomplished in the years of Soviet power. Life has shown that economic reform has proved foolish, resulting in the destruction of one of the world's best agro-industrial systems, a material and technical base and human and scientific potential. The peasants took the negotiable funds, they couldn't afford loans, they took out the state supply system, and they took out the material and technical supplies. By 1991, the cologne, radgospas, and inter-economic enterprises had the basic funds of 1.6 trillion dollars, and only 20 percent were distributed in their rations, the rest being stolen and looted. Of the 5 million former APC workers, 3 million lost their jobs and income. The village is dying, the demographic situation is catastrophic. More than 4,000 villages disappeared from the map of Ukraine. Today’s authorities have shown more convincingly that the hope of improving the situation in the countryside is futile. Moreover, knowing our history, there has never been such an anti-rural government in Ukraine in all history. Even the Deputy Prime Minister's post on APC issues has been eliminated. The former head of government, minister of economy and finance focused, not on supporting the domestic producer, but on creating conditions for importing food resources. It feels that modern - day government officials are very reluctant to start trade in land, and the process has already begun without the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Foreign entrepreneurs in most areas have already taken possession of land in our country, and peasants have been hired. Today, the vast majority of experts will unmistakably say, “The country of Ukraine has ceased to be a breadwinner.” The movement of the autumn field work indicates that the peasant began to hesitate whether to sow the osmium or not. Optimal agrotechnical lines coincide, but only 1 million of the necessary 8 million hectares are sown. 20 percent of the area has not yet been prepared for sowing. This is because a good crop has been grown — 33.5 million. A ton of government can't handle it. Chrobs ran out of negotiable funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u8	In order of exclusion, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u9	Today, only 20 percent of the work in the field is provided with fuel and 15 percent by mineral fertilizers. We consider it necessary to support the agricultural sector. For its development, it is necessary to anticipate at least 20-22 billion in the 2006 budget. Grevin, it's only 4.2 for this year. The Communist faction, in caring for the well-being of the people, strongly demands that the authorities change their attitude to the need for food supplies of 47 million people. Ukrainian citizens, avoid further rising food prices and raising the level of social protection of the Ukrainian population. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u10	Please, Jemelev. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u11	Mustafa Dzemilev, the Medjelis of the Crimean Tatar people, the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Please give the floor to Deputy Tanjuk Lesi Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u12	Dear friends, despite all the troubles in the state, today we have a great holiday: 16 in the year 89 the National Movement of Ukraine was born, with 4.5 million at the end of the year 89. Ukrainian citizens. I'm on behalf of all 4.5 million. I welcome Ukrainian citizens to the birthday of the People's Movement. Statement by the faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine on the 16th anniversary of the creation of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Today it is 16 years old from the date of the establishment of the National Movement of Ukraine, which decided to form the first in the new history of Ukraine’s political power, the People’s Movement of Ukraine. The National Movement of Ukraine has entered history as a party that has led the struggle for Ukraine’s independence for a democratic social system for a civilized rich life. This struggle has produced a significant result, the Ukrainian people have chosen their statehood, and with it all the possibilities to build a democratic, prosperous European state. Since its creation and so far in the new millennium, the Movement has been working and amassing all the patriotic forces around the goal, strengthening the democratic, powerful Ukrainian Ukraine. On this long journey of NRAs, as the whole state was winning and losing, winning and defeating, and yet, despite all the complexity and opposition, our party has consistently and purposefully pursued its policy of nation-building. With the election of Victor Yushchenk as President of Ukraine, the new power on its banners has written a grandly moving goal of becoming a democratic, legal, prosperous state. The NRA has brought to the Ukrainian policy principles that should be a guiding principle for all: patriotism, professionalism, and orderliness. Today we see the loss of a commanding spirit, the mutual accusations and the mutual reasoning that undermine trust in power. But the Ukrainian People's Movement is convinced that the President's determined personnel actions are aimed at stabilizing and restoring the constructive, coherent work of all government bodies will produce a positive result. Ukraine’s People’s Movement urges all politicians, officials, citizens, true patriots of Ukraine to unite to support these efforts of the President, guiding the movement principle “Ukraine and its people are above all else! In unity, our strength! We'll win together! Glory be to Ukraine!" Head of the People's Movement, Boris Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u13	Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk. Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk gives the word to Anatolia Seminozi, please. Prepare Fedorchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u14	Statement by the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko in connection with the resignation of the Ukrainian government. We, the people's deputies, the participants in the Orange Revolution, the members of the Ukrainian President's team, cannot be clear and logical about the resignation of the government headed by Yulia Timoshenko. We did not understand the President's action when officials accused of corruption and the government led by the Prime Minister who fought against this corruption were being dismissed at the same time. One disgraceful line was put on by those who fought for the ideals of the court and those who betrayed them. It is not logical in terms of the implementation of the President's declared programme and the requirements of the course that we consider the resignation of the Ukrainian government, which, within a short period of time, increased the budget, substantially increased the pension and salary, made a number of effective economic approaches, fought uncompromisingly for the return of the state stolen from the people of property. Clearly, the resignation of the government of Yulia, Timoshenko, covers the disgraceful resignation of corrupt godparents and the president’s immediate surroundings. We, the faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, 42 Ukrainian national deputies. We are in disagreement with the decision of the President of Ukraine to resign the government of Yulia Timoshenko, who has been defined as the most effective government in Ukraine's history. In the same way, the interests of the State and the people were again sacrificed to the corrupt clan. We demand openness and transparency in conducting an official investigation into the charges of corrupt officials. We insist on the immediate meeting of the President of Ukraine with the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. We state that the requirements of the “morning ground” were and will be inviolable and high priority in the activities of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u15	Jaroslav Fedorchuk gives the word to Victor Terrence, please. Prepare Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u16	Victor Terrence, the Motherland Party. My dear friends, I'm continuing my previous statement. Indeed, a severe blow was struck yesterday by the Ukrainian nation. The resignation of the government is indeed a tragedy for all who hope for a better life, for a just and honest Ukraine. And three times painfully, this blow was inflicted by the President, who two weeks ago spoke such beautiful words about this government, spoke on the Maidan of Independence, in the same place as orange and beautiful, where he put his hand on the Bible during the inauguration. Regrettably, the President’s decree of resignation was emotional and profoundly unfair. It was the Prime Minister who was the one in the government who was embodying the idea of an orange revolution. There have always been many loving and big talkable patriots in Ukraine, but few workers. And it was Julia Timoshenko who was not only a great Ukrainian patriot in the government, she was carrying a plow, day and night, without weekends and vacations. Everyone had vacations, she didn't have vacations. And that, people, you've heard on wages and pensions, Ukraine has gained authority in Europe, even though it was not allowed to work. The prime minister began a hard conversation with the oil traders to keep the prices on gasoline from being allowed. She tried to lower the price of imported meat, and the Supreme Council did not support it. There were government initiatives for which 20 to 30 MPs voted in Parliament, and she was opposed all the time, even though she did not deviate from the 10 steps of the President's programme. And what the government team today might be talking about when the President made 56 human resources assignments without agreement with the Prime Minister in the vicinity of the Constitution. And so, honestly, the Prime Minister’s resignation, sadly, seems to be a well - thought - out settlement of the oligarchs from Timoshenko. And unfortunately, it's with Yushchenka's hands. Today, joy through the land in the camp of Medvedchuk and Kiwalov, a drunken joy in the promoskov Fifth Column. But don't be happy. Julia Timoshenko will never gather anti-Ukrainian forces and injustice into one bag, and a purely deep human image will never replace Ukraine, Ukraine, which is still being built today, not in the future. And literally right now, my dear friends came to me, and I'm going to break away from the speech, in memory of Lena Kostenko's words, the beautiful words where she said, "without me, Ukraine can live, and I can breathe without Ukraine." And by rephrasing, I want to say that Timoshenko will live and work in the name of Ukraine without any government, but today, I am deeply convinced, without it, any government will breathe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u17	Isaiah conveys the word of Alexia Korsakov, please. Get ready for Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u18	A statement by the faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters. The faction of the Ukraine Region asks the President of Ukraine to stop the execution of a well-known politician, leader of the opposition of the “State” party Hennadiy Vasilyev. Repressive authorities are persecuting a respectable person, a national deputy of three vocations, a public figure who has been supported by Parliament in his election as the first representative of the Supreme Council. The profession and principle of Gennady Vasiliev as Attorney General of Ukraine gained respect not only for fellow MPs but also for ordinary citizens. In principle and honestly, Hennaday Vasiliev publicly opposed the gross violations of the Law during the so - called orange revolution. And in protest of the inaction of the President of Ukraine and the law enforcement agencies, he voluntarily resigned from the post of Attorney General. After the presidential election, the ruling party “The State ” approved the decision to move to the opposition. Vasilyev publicly and reasoned on the quality of the work of the new government, and professionalism, in the paws, of this authority, has already experienced millions of citizens, who are marked by a decline in living standards. As a legal expert, Hennaday Vasiliev in his numerous speeches showed the people the true essence of today's government, which launched a machine of mass political repression. Vasiliev argued that the authorities were deceiving the resonating cases of the poisoning of Viktor Yushchenk, the murder of George Gongadze, and Igor Aleksanderov, others. In fact, most of these cases are not being investigated. The active activity of the leader of the party “The State” provoked the irritation of power, which began a political dispute over Vasilyev. Moreover, according to some, the former Henprocurator is threatened with physical destruction. In dealing with Vasilyev and his contemporaries, with today’s opposition, the authorities want to hide information about their incompetence and often criminal acts from society. The motive behind the criminal case against Hennady Vasiliev, the prosecutor of the Kyiv district of Haisinsky, was to sign Vasilyev as the head of the Henprosecutor's Office of the Kyiv People's Department of Land Allocation for the Attorney-General's Office, and we stress, not particularly for Henprocuror, but for the public authority. The faction “Ukraine” asks the President of Ukraine to intervene immediately. around Hennadia Vasiliev and stop the use of the Javan District Attorney's Office. We urge the President to stop investigating the opposition in Ukraine and to ensure that the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution are respected regardless of their political views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u19	Chelnokov gives the word to Nosenku. Please. Prepare Rahanski. Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u20	Mikola Nosenko. The faction of the Ukrainian company. Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! A bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 8019-1, from 10.08, has been sent to the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s profile committees by the Head of the Supreme Council for consideration. 05 on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. The bill proposed by Mintrance was previously discussed and approved at a meeting of the Cabinet. The bill is being prepared for further privatization of 36 railway objects. Taking into account the fact that all the regional railway directorates of Ukraine are listed, there is no doubt that a targeted preparation of the legislative framework for privatizing financial-generating railway undertakings has begun. Compared to industrial structures, these are, for example, manufacturing in places that organize freight, passenger work, train movement, and payment from passengers and cargo customers. Therefore, the government's discussion of corporateization of the entire “district” property complex is from the wicked one. A so-called Polish version of privatization of the sections most attractive to investors of railway companies is being prepared. All other railway units, i.e. infrastructure that provides for the operation and maintenance of railway equipment and machinery, remain state-owned and state-owned. Worldwide, the sad consequences of such reform are known with tens of thousands of reduced workers and declines. railways in Poland. Thus, the government, which was unable to secure the country's normal economic development by grabbing at the last straw, wanted to fill the dirty State budget by releasing a powerful strategic object from the hammer, the basis of the State's transport system, the Crucified State. That is why I call on my fellow Ukrainian national deputies not to allow the adoption of the anti-national bill, number 8019-1, from 10.08. 05. I appeal to the railway unions and groups of enterprises to take all possible measures to prevent the privatisation of the ‘Urzalznice’ process from taking place first. Dear railways, I am sure that the communists of Ukraine along with you will not allow the orange hawks to stretch out the oily pieces of the Crucifixion to destroy the country's clear, functioning, most powerful transport mechanism and reduce tens of thousands of workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u21	Yes, please, Anatoly Moroz conveys the word Anatoly Rahanski, the faction “Go ahead to Ukraine”. Prepare Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u22	Anatoly Rahansky Eupatoria constituency, “Pred Ukraine” faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, my parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, for the failure of the Government of Ukraine to resolve issues related to the eviction of residents of the villages of Hottnikov and Orlánka in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose households have been submerged since March 2005 as a result of an extraordinary situation. That's the problem. As a result of the extraordinary situation in the Sachs region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in March 2005, about 70 households were submerged. For six months now, there has been infertile correspondence with the government of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the allocation of funds for the removal of affected families. In the households of these families, one and a half feet [1.5 m] of water stands. The residents agreed to get these houses, according to BTI's estimate, this is a total of 5, by 6,000 bracelets per building. However, officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Council of Ministers cannot, Crimea, in any way, determine who should allocate the funds depending on the level of the outstanding situation. We know that the government recently decided to allocate a million dollars to New Orleans. Yes, we need to help people in distress. But we also need to remember our own people. People don't care what level of expertise this situation is, they know that they have a state if they have one that should help them. But in view of the fact that the government is coming, we have already had 15 governments in our years of independence, and in no government can we resolve the matter properly. I am forced to turn to Viktor Andriyovich in view of the fact that there is no government today. And I impeccably ask you, Adam Ivanovich, or you will again put to the vote my parliamentary request, because he has obtained just a few votes, or consider my parliamentary request, my statement as a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u23	Polymarenko passes the word to Yuri Solomatin. To prepare for the word Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u24	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Mr. President of Ukraine, how did you get poisoned? Dioxin or stem cells? On 6 September, the anniversary of the event entitled poisoning a candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine, Yushchenka, went unnoticed. Remember, first the poison was called ricin, then the biological weapon, then the scandalous version of the Austrian clinic Rudolfinnerhouse with dioxin poisoning. The Presidential candidate of the Supreme Council himself stated that he had been poisoned and promised to name the names of his poisoners and that the likely time, place and figures of the poisoning had been named, and the victim had already become President of Ukraine, stated that the competent authorities had indicated that dioxins were of Ukrainian origin and that the laboratory in which he had been found had already been known. Meanwhile, other versions of the causes of Yushchenko’s disease have emerged. The public was particularly attracted by an alternative version with a failed covert cosmetic surgery to rejuvenate the patient with stem cells. By the way, examples of such unsuccessful cosmetic operations of the mass, one of the most famous of all is Russian TV host Oksana Pushkin, who is still being tried by cosmetic clinics for disfigured. The dioxin version has a very invulnerable position, which I referred to on 22 December last year in a request to the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ukrainian Security Service, the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I drew the attention of these respected institutions to the lack of research, the very procedure for the collection of blood and biological tissue in the sick, the documentation of this process, the monitoring of delivery and the professional laboratory and the guarantees of non-interference in the content of these. On the road or their replacement. Regrettably, under the pretext of the secrecy of the investigation of the answer to these important questions, there is still no reason for the most unexpected versions, including possible, hidden by the most well-known patient and his environment, failed treatment, rejuvenation in late August 2004 at the Austrian clinic of Rudolfinnerhouse, known worldwide for stem cell procedures derived from abortion. It seems that the current authority would not be able to bury Yushchenko with dioxin. Therefore, the issue of the President of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General and the Security Service. Mr. President, who, than when and how he poisoned you, remains on the agenda. I ask that you consider this my request to the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Security Service, the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine and put it to a vote. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u25	Yuri Petrovich, you've started learning Ukrainian so well and you've moved on to something else. Please, Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u26	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Statement by Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP for the country's political crisis. [[united]] Ukraine gradually but inevitably slipped into a political crisis. Its causes are unprofessionalism and deep contradictions within the governing team. President Yushchenko is responsible for the situation in the country and has formed a corrupt and ineffective team. The prognosis of Social Democrats will be accurate. Eight months went by, and the authorities broke virtually all directions of work. The declining pace of economic growth, price increases, underperforming foreign policy, the failure of Euro-integration and almost corrupt relations with Russia and, finally, scandalous intrigues in the middle of power make at least some development strategy impossible. Cynical claims about the high morals of the new authority are challenged by corruption and the racketeering of the highest officials. Not finding a way out of the situation, the new, so-called democratic authorities are engaged in political repression, persecution, false, loud criminal cases, and, as always, the search for the guilty. On September 8, 2005, in a television statement, Viktor Yushchenko admitted that he did not run the state but transferred his powers to the State Secretariat, including Zinchenko, and to the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Prashenko, effectively removing the constitutional powers of the President. He did not appreciate or appreciate the depth of the crisis, unable to judge critical self - esteem and recognition of errors. The president is not politically adequate, and instead of conducting criminal investigations into the corruption of his immediate environment, he resigned the government. But the government's resignation was not because of colossal failures in the economic, social, and foreign political spheres, but because of the conflict between the best man and the president's friends. In this situation, the faction believes that the President is incapable of directing, that he cannot be entrusted with the formation of a new government and other executive bodies. You can't allow experimenting with the state and the people because these experiments are going to result in economic and political collapse. On the basis of the foregoing, the faction considers the establishment of an extraordinary parliamentary commission to investigate allegations of corruption in Prašenka, Trelyakow, and Matrinenka. The Supreme Council of Ukraine does not consider the submission of the President for an agreement on the appointment of the Prime Minister. We insist on the only constitutional way out of the political crisis, the decision taken by the Supreme Council to implement the changes made to the Constitution since September 2005 and the possibility of forming a government by the Supreme Council. Today, polytreform is a way out of this situation. Once again, we remind the authorities that without political and social consolidation, the nation cannot respond to the challenges of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u27	There are unsatisfying answers to parliamentary requests. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u28	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. Since May, I have been dealing with a problem in the village of Kozino in the region of Kyiv. Where local leaders would say so, 150 peasants stole landowners and possessions by stealing their belongings from them. And despite the numerous appeals and the local Moroccan prosecutor’s office, the Kyiv District Attorney’s Office, the villagers cannot find the truth. In June, I went to this village and witnessed what was done there. I made this point to the Attorney General's Office. He went out the second time and had a conversation with the prosecutor of the Mironovo district. For four of my letters to the MPs, I received four answers. Last answer from the Attorney General's Office. The situation was this. The following Moroccan prosecutor’s office dismissed the criminal case on the second day. The district attorney's office cancels, we'll say so, the actions of the investigator of the Mirano prosecution are in violation of a criminal case. Four days from now, because there's no pattern of crime, it cancels. The Attorney General's office gives me the answer that the guilty are called to account. The district attorney's office gives me the answer that there's no such situation and everything's fine. The last answer I received from the Attorney General's Office was that there was a criminal case and an investigation is under way. But those who have spoken will not be questioned as witnesses in this matter. I wonder who's lying to the Ukrainian national deputy? The Mirano Procurator, the Kyiv Prosecutor or the Attorney General? Dear Svetoslav Mikhajlovich, the same situation in the Cherkas region, I have been trying for two years to return to the peasants 300 hectares of land, which the village head-chasher, we will speak, hidden from despair. By this time, the Church Prosecutor's Office, there's been a change of three prosecutors, and there's three prosecutors in the pattern that give different, same answer, and a village head prepares them. This is a disgrace to the prosecutor's office, the disgrace of Svetoslav Mikhajlovich and the Attorney General's office, which you run and treat the peasants that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u29	Mikhail Vasilovich, is that a con man's name? Or your grade. Please, George Krutchev. Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! On September 7, our committee accepted such a statement. The situation that took place in the country during and after the presidential elections required radical measures to bring society together, to concentrate on solving the urgent problems in the economy, in the social sphere, and to strengthen the constitutional principles in the work of all public authorities. Strengthening the protection of human rights and of citizens, the decisive eradication of corruption, and the abuse of power. However, the state’s post-election processes have caused deep concern about populist, unwarranted government decisions have led to a significant decline in economic growth, price and tariff growth, creating an unfavourable environment for domestic producers. The absence of real distortions in the fight against corruption, natural reprivatisation processes, which are in fact attempts by clan structures to allocate ownership, mass substitution of personnel that have other political views, unique facts of the promotion of leadership positions of random, incompetent, with great ambitions and appetites of people, a catastrophic decline in the level of professionalism in the administration of all spheres of public life, a lack of proper response to the public in the media to blame the high officials, including the President's environment, in corruption caused serious damage to the authority of the Ukrainian State in the world, posed a real threat to the stability of society and national security of the state. The Committee is deeply concerned that even after the changes in political leadership, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has in fact continued to be removed from the solution to the important issues which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, are its exclusive competence. No proposals have yet been made for the approval of the Supreme Council regarding the structure, number of law enforcement agencies, such as the Ukrainian Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, the Department of State Security. Not by law, but by presidential decrees a new military formation has been created, the External Intelligence Service has confirmed its numbers, and the structure of the Ukrainian Security Service has been changed. This, among other things, makes it impossible to legitimately form the National Budget of Ukraine in part relating to the needs of national security and defence. A sister who has nothing to do with the State’s interests, the struggle to influence the power structures, including those who remove communications from the governing body, leads to brutal violations of citizens’ constitutional rights. In fact, in Ukraine, which has declared itself a democratic, legal state, a person continues to remain unprotected from the vagaries of government, bureaucracy in governance structures, and the pull of the judiciary. In view of this situation as unacceptable, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the President as a guarantor of constitutional observance, requiring full implementation of the powers conferred upon him by the Basic Law of the State, taking urgent effective measures to strengthen the constitutional order in the country, decisive cleansing of the state apparatus, primarily its governing chains.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u31	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u32	Cleansing up the state apparatus, primarily its leading links to criminal and oligarchic clans, corrupters and bribes, to ensure that all chains of economic and social governance are clearly operated. We consider it necessary to immediately organize a review of media charges against high-ranking officials, particularly those close to the head of state for abuse and corruption. To inform the Supreme Council, the people of Ukraine. The citizens of Ukraine need to realize the danger that our nation faces, to prevent it, to uphold the constitutional order — the responsibility of every fellow countryman. I am confident that the European world society will not be indifferent to negative processes in Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u33	Yes, the speeches are over, dear colleagues. There was a request from the people’s representative of Rahansky. In fact, we probably didn't, because we always start by asking the President. I ask his request to the President of Ukraine not to settle for six months by the Government of Ukraine the issues related to the eviction of residents of the villages of Hottnikove and Orlánka Lak region, whose household was sunk in March 2005 as a result of an extraordinary situation. [[Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Please vote. [[11:06:57]] For 207 Supported. We are now voting for a request to the President. It takes 226 votes. Please vote. [[11:07:20]] For 227 Decision taken. And, honourable colleagues, here we have, we have not voted, I have announced, but we have not voted in favour of the President's request to the National MPs of Fix and Shurma to give a proper assessment of the actions of Moskal's Deputy Minister of Interior during his visit to Lvivščina in August 2005. Please vote for support. [[11:08:06]] For a hundred and Supported. Now, if you'd like to vote on the direction. [[11:08:29]] For-167 Not accepted. Yuri Petrovich gave the talk, but I ask her to do what is right. Yeah, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The draft Law on the Staff Nutrition System, registration number 6044, is under consideration. Shevchuk, Sergey Volodymyrovich, reports, prepare Jaroslav Suchem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Before you go to the content of the bill, let me get some statistics. In the past five years, consumption of biologically valuable products has decreased considerably in Ukraine. In particular, consumption, meat and meat products decreased by 37 percent, dairy products by 35 percent, eggs by 37.5, fish by 81 percent, and even fruit and vegetables by 49 percent. The low standard of living of most workers leads to the fact that in many cases they eat dry food in far better and not fresh, but in a better way frozen food. Hence the high disease of organs of digestion, poisoning, and the like. I will remind you, too, that you probably know that a person’s health is more determined by the ecological situation and nutrition than by the effectiveness of the entire health system. The subject of the bill is a worker, a working person, a producer of a national product or service. The tasks of the project’s developers are the following. First. The state must receive its own funded social programme to improve health and the quality of food for the working population, which will create additional jobs in the public food sector and in the real Ukrainian sector of the agro-industry complex. The other one. Employers of all forms of property will be able to gain more productivity, reduce the cost of working days due to illness, some tax incentives, and forms of incentives for hired workers, especially for skilled staff, through the provision of food aid during workdays. Finally, workers will be able to improve working conditions, increase purchasing power, and reduce disease. This bill is based on the rich experience of more than 30 nations in the world. So I'm not deliberately going to call the countries of Western Europe, because I'm going to be denied that we're far from that level. I will mention that such a law is similar in countries such as Romania, the Czech Republic, Argentina, Brazil, and it actually works and helps to increase production and productivity. And in world practice, employers are exempt from taxing the amounts they spend on feeding their staff, just as employees don't pay taxes on product vouchers that are given to them above wage levels. I want to emphasize this position. Food vouchers greatly simplify the solution to both the social and physical needs of workers during working hours. In large businesses, the employer can easily feed the workers on the basis of food shops or cafes. And here I want to mention the experience that was once, it really was the conquest of socialism when workers were able to eat properly. But this conquest today must be transformed into other conditions. In particular, small and medium-sized businesses, for which opening their own dining rooms for workers is an insurmountable task. Thus, the bill provides for free circulation of vouchers. A small business employee may choose a convenient dining room, a cafe, or a restaurant that accepts these food items and, more importantly, has been accredited by the issuer of such coupons, that is, given the opportunity to check for food quality, to use safe food, to process handicrafts, and to feed the workers. It has to be noted that in many countries of the world, the same law has come into force in stages, and obviously in Ukraine, if you accept these ideas, it will be phased out: first, the food stamps would be given to private sector workers, later -- workers who directly create the foundations of national wealth -- is transport, energy, machine building, mining, and budget workers -- I would also like to say that. Last but not least, I would like to thank the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which has generally supported it, has proposed a basis for adopting this bill, but has made very good points, especially with regard to tax problems. These comments can be accepted after the adoption of the bill in the first reading. And the last thing I want to say is that the bill has non-fiscal social significance, and I think that all the national MPs are interested in raising the health of the nation, the health of the workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u35	Thank you. And you need it? Well, sign up for the question. Please, three minutes. Nosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u36	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to give it to my colleague Leschenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u37	Please, it's Lechnik Volodymyr's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, of course, this bill needs to be supported. But you can answer two questions. First, did you study, when drafting a bill, the experience of brotherly Belarus, where the food system of workers is well - established, well - on - a - level? Second, is it possible to repair quality food in such a situation in our country when the Government proposes the export of livestock and other legislation on meat imports, at zero rates of duty? That is, we will export quality products, and we will transport rotten meat. Thank you. Mr Ševčuk C. Thank you for that. Belarus’s experience seems to exist, but in the sense that there was a system of state ownership, a system of state ownership in enterprises. This is the experience of the Soviet system. As you well know, social relations have changed. And that's why we need to adapt the situation today to the needs of humans. And it's suggested that we keep the good system that was before, which is what I emphasized. And at the same time, allow workers working in other areas of the medium-sized business to have a normal diet to work properly. With regard to quality products, this is a very important question. What I'm saying is that releasing food vouchers doesn't mean that these coupons can be used in any dining room, dining room, buffets, whatever. It's only on that network. which is accredited, which is known in advance to have all the standards of quality food that is used by quality foods, mainly domestically produced Ukrainian. So it's not just an incentive for the food grid, it's an incentive for the agro-man of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u39	I don't know, Jaroslav's going to be the Dry One, you want to ask. Well, please, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u40	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the political party “Regions of Ukraine”. I asked this question on purpose, because I can't answer it myself from the committee. Sergei Volodymyrovich, you, as the author, develop the doubts of our parliamentary budgetary and tax “pulls”. Please tell us, if we adopt this Law, whether we will be able at the legislative level to provide such important processes for our society as a more qualitative rendering of labor, which is, in fact, our work here and our content of being lost. If we don't achieve this task, you as a specialist, which doctor, please tell us at the legislative level whether we can achieve this very important task today, and a painful task.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u41	Thank you. You have two questions. First, it's about the tax system. I want to say immediately that our tax system is far from optimal and certainly we need to look for ways to improve it. There are critical remarks that indicate that the budget will not receive a certain amount of money if those coupons are released. What there are, as a minimum, two objections. First of all, we can't account for the damage that doesn't exist. There are no vouchers, so you can't count any losses. And secondly, it's the main thing. Those countries that have introduced, especially Romania, I want to highlight the Romanian example, have convincing data that the first 12-15 months, in fact, some say that there is a non-invention. But later, over this period, the increase in trade, the increase in food and services output has led to an almost double increase in revenue for the next two years from the increase in the turnover of the public food network. So the budget is interested and the taxpayers, if they got a good look at these positions, they would say that yes, that's another additional incentive for the budget to increase. The social direction, I confirm, and this is really going to help increase productivity and, as you asked, build the labour potential of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u42	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee on Social Policy and Work, First Deputy Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. This bill can certainly be seen as part of the legislative provision of strategies for overcoming poverty in the state and especially of such a specific nature for Ukraine as poverty among working people. If this bill had been able to correct some major gaps, even technical standards, it would certainly have played an extremely positive role. Thus, Bill No. 6044 provides for the introduction of employer vouchers for employers to purchase food and food for accredited persons. In order to interest the employer, the drafters propose a tax benefit system. In more detail, this system was reported by a reporter, one of the drafters, our colleague Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, and I will not stop at it. All I'm going to say is that the Committee on Social Policy and Work has been discussing this bill for a long time. We decided to send him back for processing. At the same time, I say my own personal point of view: in the event that the session hall supports this bill, for which I personally advocated the hall, but this is not a committee opinion, my own, then the Committee on Social Policy, along with interested ministries and departments, worked it out in a second reading in such a way as to eliminate all of these inadequacies. In particular, the bill contains standards that conflict with one another. Here's literally article nine. It provides that budget organizations and institutions are given the right to purchase food vouchers at the expense of the State budget. Next thing you know, it's like, The government budget is not obliged to allocate such funds. And the third story is that budgets of different levels are funded by budgets. budget organisations are financed by budgets of different levels. So it's not clear. The other one. I think it's a serious observation or a serious warning. The authors need to take it into account. The introduction of proposed food vouchers will make it necessary to channel to these entire costs, which are allocated to the salaries of all levels of the budget or at the expense of employers, and will also be diverted. Wages. This contradicts our strategic line, the social policy, which aims to raise the cost of national labour, somehow reduce the wages, and we will not be able to develop the purchasing power of our citizens. In general, this bill certainly allows legislation to strengthen existing practices. Because in many industrial enterprises, including my native Zaporozhye, there is this practice already, but these industrial directors and private-owned firms have a constant problem with taxpayers who are trying to make the same money that's going to build the labor force that's involved in the manufacturing process, think of it as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u44	Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Yeah, let's take 12 minutes. Slippery. Suskewicz prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u45	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It is painful to say today that Ukraine has one of the world’s first places of disease and mortality. And special mortality in recent years has been observed in people of working age. One reason for this tragedy is poor nutrition. Today, most of our citizens are fed, not by health benefits, but by things that are cheaper. And cheap products cannot satisfy nearly 68 percent of low - income Ukrainians. Bread is the main food for today. Although bread and bread products decreased by 10 percent. Meat and sausages, dairy products are forgotten because prices do not allow them to be purchased. Prices of vegetables have increased significantly by 56 percent, fish and meat by 45 percent. As a result, most Ukrainians today have benefited greatly from the consumer basket. This is because Ukraine has the most fertile black lands and has not created the right conditions for the full feeding of people. True, it is necessary to create normal conditions for normal nutrition. And the president of Ukraine and his disgraced team went to the smallest point of the resistance. Bring in food, low quality because of the flea and continue to destroy your people. Today, imports of products that are a risk factor continue to be imported from Asian countries. And that's all they say is all right. During the time of the construction, a number of native carnivores, milk factories, farmers, birds, and birds produced high - quality products were destroyed. Children’s kitchen was destroyed in the city of Kirovograd. There is no dairy plant. The list is endless. This is the way they care and work for the benefit of the people and the Qutstenka authorities and the Jewish authorities. Although we Communists did not once warn that a father and his son were unable to rule the state. For the hundredth time, I am convinced of the devastating effect of reforms that have had a negative impact on economic stability, on improving the quality of food and on the lives of the population. All of this does not allow a person to maintain good health and a high level of productivity. Thus, the food system needs to be changed immediately, made modern, accessible, and high - quality foods. And this can only be done when the system of power changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u46	Please, Suškevitch microphone. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, National Deputy Suškević. The bill that we have proposed for consideration has an undeniably social orientation and aims to increase the overall level of working citizens. Because it's not a secret that the problem of managing a balanced diet, especially when it comes to manufacturing, is quite acute and often. Today, the employer is totally concerned about where, how, and how his hired worker will feed. The employer is only interested in his employment. It is possible to remember Soviet times with a mild word. Let's look at the truth in the eye. Then, as we all remember, the system of food production, especially in large businesses, was set up very well. And the dining rooms at the factories, the factories were crawling with professional sources. By the way, in economically developed European countries, in the United States, especially Japan. This experience has been taken, and now, national deputies working on our travels, our foreign colleagues are demonstrating the organization of food for workers in production. The drafters try to mention what is well - earned, but with modern economic realities in mind, with the aim of resuscitation of the food system, they want to introduce essentially economic methods to encourage employers, certain tax preferences for both the food user and the employer, who should be very interested in the health and productivity of their employees. The irrational issue of experts in the World Health Organization is one of the most important risk factors for many diseases. Thus, it is proposed that an organization be established in Ukraine to provide food for workers at their place of employment at the expense of an employer who is quite common in world practice. I want to draw attention to one aspect of the ideology of the bill. It links and harmonizes the interests of the State, the interests of the manufacturer, the employer, and the interests of the working citizen. And most of all, health, and respectable colleagues. I'm talking about it. I was also a little surprised by our faction’s position as our Social Committee on Social Policy and Work, which ruled out rejection. But I would like to pay attention, it's in this bill on health, and the real creation of new jobs. The drafters predict the creation of several tens of thousands of new jobs. Of course, there are some things that need to be worked out that will be removed in the second reading. But this bill certainly needs to be supported as a new word because it touches our working citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u48	Basil Nadrag, a faction of the National Party, to prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u49	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Respected colleagues, the issue of nutrition for workers and employers are more than relevant. I would certainly not share the great euphoria that, by means of this law or this problem, we will solve everything related to poverty and poverty in our country. But I think that a qualitative step towards a normal, civilized approach to a person of work will make it possible to do so. Therefore, our faction will support this bill. We believe that, in addition to fulfilling the social sphere, we are now offered a normal economic stimulus, an economic reality that will enable this law to be worked out. Because the principle, when these costs are not applicable, are not part of the taxable part of the business and are not paid by the employee, there is a normal economic mechanism through which the idea will work. We believe that it is also perfectly proper that budget workers will also be entitled to such meals from the budget, and I think that this will be absolutely correct if it is stated that budgets at all levels, depending on the organization's budget. The only thing I would like to say is a conceptual wish for us to do it on second reading. We think that, as a faction of the People's Party of Lithuania, we think that certain provisions are too cumbersome and engulf the basic idea. In particular, we believe that the main mediocre idea should be that any worker who has worked eight hours has the right to food. If we introduce this rule into the law, then it will be normal, and it will be understandable why we protect the interests and interests of the workers. Next, we believe that it is necessary to exit, and in the light of the modern economic realities of Ukraine, to adopt a rule that either the provision of food to the workers should be carried out or in special circumstances. either in specially trained and licensed food establishments or in the workplace, because it is hard to imagine that in the field it is possible to license or from a small enterprise or even a large one, where there is a food system, you must go into the city and feed a person somewhere on the side. We therefore believe that the alternative should remain. The alternative is that the person who directly cooks food should be either a foreign organization or an organization that is established and existing by an employer where there are employees. If this rule is proved, then everything will be fine. I say again, “Litvina’s People’s Party is ready to support it on first reading.” And we believe that if some superfluous nuisances are removed from the second reading, that law will come and be adopted before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u50	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u51	Yuri Solomatin, faction of the Communist Party Vladimir Ilic Lenin. Dear colleagues, we are considering a bill with you that is trying to resuscitate the Soviet public nutrition system, which has been the best in the world. And replace it with structures that are related to small and medium-sized businesses. Let's agree with one -- where business, there's no income, there's no interest, there's no money in the hidden form for the benefit of this business. And if you look at this law from this point of view, it is said that the white thread is the focus of these interests. In particular, I would like us to consider such a point. It is proposed to include three structures in this public feeding system. This is actually a catering enterprise that is subject to special accreditation from the provision of these services. And second, which issues special food vouchers, which actually serve as a function of money. So let's take a look at it. The bill provides for exemption from tax on the added value of the transaction from the issuance, acquisition, transfer, use, repayment and return of vouchers and the purchase of food vouchers, article 14, paragraph 9, of the draft. And if we are to remember that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted in March 2005 by the Act “To Change the State Budget for Ukraine 2005” and other legislative acts, has imposed a five-year moratorium on the granting of new and expanding existing benefits from the value added tax. Thus, there is some imbalance between the State budget and the legislative innovations proposed by the authors of the bill. In addition, I would like this bill to be sent to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to provide us with an expert opinion that we are acquiring and losing. According to the drafters, it seems that there is a balance between workers and workers. But it would be interesting to know the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this issue. But it would be even more interesting to know, from my point of view, the expert opinion of trade unions, which I have unfortunately not seen, although perhaps they are the same as a class committee. The proposed bill therefore was of interest. It can be accepted on first reading, taking into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u52	Yes, with the motives of the Noshchenko vote, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u53	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Deafness, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Not for the reasons of the vote, I'm on record. One minute, please. Not sincere speakers who say that this project will address the quality of the food for the workers. Because this bill is designed to make the system of issuing coupons parallel to that of a issuer with a statutory fund of 500,000. That means everyone. Including the tractor food, they will go to Kiev for the coupons. I'm making an offer, first of all, to lower this requirement. Secondly, we will vote and support the bill on the condition that the thesis will be added to the body of the law, oblige the operators to provide food for the amount of tax benefits defined by law. This will be right, and it will contribute to the quality of nutrition for those working in businesses, institutions, and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u54	Question completed. We'll vote. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Workers' Food System Act. Registration number 6044. Please be supportive. Until the second reading, everything is settled, the committee promised. [[11:37:41]] For 215 Dear colleagues! Get out of here. Let us move on to the active stage of work. Ready? We can do it again. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Workers' Food System Act. Registration number 6044, first reading. Vote. [[11:38:30.]] For 301 Thank you. In the first, because the committee agrees, and you speakers say that there's just some things that need to be cleaned up. By factions, let's do factions. Communists – 56, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 39, “Ukraine” – 18, People’s Party – 34, Block Timoshenko – 38, Socialists – 24. Ukrainian People's Party - 10, Ukraine - 14, Social Democrats - 0, “Forward Ukraine” - 18, Reforms and Orders - 12, Industrial and Business Party - 15, Ukrainian People's Movement - 6, non-fractional - 12. [[United]] Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Act “On Ukraine’s participation in international peacekeeping operations”, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers reports annually to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine’s participation in activities to maintain or restore international peace and security. That's why we're doing the law. We will now consider the annual report of the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine's participation in activities to maintain or restore international security. Deputy Foreign Minister Shamshur Oleg Vladislavovich has the floor for the report. Ten minutes, please. Get ready for the Committee's hamster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u55	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act “On Ukraine’s participation in international peace operations” and to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Hearing the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine’s participation in the maintenance or restoration of peace and security activities since 7 April 2005 and the corresponding mandate of the government, I have the honour to present the government’s report to the present meeting of the Supreme Council. In addition to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Department of Finance, the Department of the Cabinet of Ministers, to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is deeply grateful. The report in concise form sets out the main aspects of Ukraine’s participation in the maintenance or restoration of international peace and security. A few words about the structure of the report. The document consists of six separate sections. The first chapter highlights the tasks and political aspects of Ukraine’s participation in peacemaking, stressing that Ukraine’s active peacekeeping activity is a real testimony to the state’s consistency in fulfilling its international commitments. The second chapter deals with the formation, preparation and deployment of peacekeeping contingents and personnel. Accordingly, chapter three covers the issue of the withdrawal and reduction of peacekeeping contingents and personnel. Chapter 4 provides answers to the legal and material and technical issues of staff involved in international peacekeeping operations. The fifth highlights the financial aspects of the activity. The last, chapter six, contains general conclusions. I would also like to remind you that on April 30, 2005, the government sent an annual report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u56	Yes, thank you. Please, can I ask you a question? Sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Matthew Valentine. Thank you. There's no Matthew? Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u57	Please give the floor to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, Ukrainian Comparty faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u58	Solomon’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u59	Thank you. The essence of my question is as follows. Under the beautiful title “peacemaking operations”, it seems that our troops abroad are performing some other functions. And this side is in the shadows, it's under the carpet, under the blanket. This is evidenced by the unpleasant experiences of our troops in Iraq, as in the case of the State, I mean the episode of the return of part of the contingent and what I would not like to call, well, money issues. The second is recent developments with our peacekeepers in Lebanon. Please tell me if it makes sense in this case if the State does.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. I would like to emphasize, I think that the report proves sufficiently the importance of the involvement of Ukrainian military personnel, members of the IMF, peacekeeping organizations, above all from the point of view of enhancing Ukraine's international authority. At the same time, we certainly pay very much attention to the distressing experiences that you have mentioned. Of course, they deserve to be condemned. And on the other hand, we are convinced that this cannot be a reason to question the importance of the participation of Ukrainians in peacekeeping operations, including the fact that the work of our peacekeepers is always highly valued. Another point to be drawn is that such conclusions are made, particularly with regard to the selection of people to participate in peacekeeping contingents and the monitoring of the activity and conduct of the service. I think that the case that you're talking about in Iraq and the situation in Lebanon that's being investigated right now is going to come to the right conclusions and it's going to be done all the way so that it doesn't happen again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u61	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the first thesis, I would like to say that it is very difficult to discuss information that I did not hold in hand, because unfortunately, this report has not been given to us, it is the first. Let's get this straight. Second moment. Accordingly, I expected that there would be a report and that information would not be the structure of the document we saw, but would tell us. Therefore, on a large scale, I do not know who to turn to, perhaps, the Cabinet of Ministers, if we are to say that the deputies should discuss, they should have a document in their hands. But still returning to a more specific question, please tell me what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done: I am here! - what did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do to minimize this negative attitude towards us as a State through our peacekeepers and the unseemly incident that took place in Lebanon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u63	Thank you for asking, distinguished national MP. As far as reporting is concerned. Like I said, she was already there. The first time it was passed on in March. This report covers 2, 4 blocks last year, 1 quarter of 2005 on the measures being taken. As soon as we received reports from the relevant United Nations inspection bodies regarding allegations of abuse of our peacekeepers, an appropriate inspection team of the Ministry of Defense was sent to Lebanon, where the facts were verified, an investigation was under way. At the same time, according to our reports, the Ministry of Defense has already imposed certain disciplinary charges on some military personnel and a criminal case has been violated. At the same time, I stress once again that the investigation is ongoing, we are certainly working in contact with the relevant United Nations bodies and in this situation, and we are also taking steps to ensure that this situation does not affect our peacemakers and our participation in peacekeeping operations in the future. So we're in constant contact with the relevant UN bodies and we're conducting a permanent dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich, the thing is, on May 6th she came to us, and apparently she was handed out, but it was a long time ago. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u65	Please give the floor to the deputy of Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u66	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u67	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Oleg Vladislavovich, I believe that Ukraine should participate in missions where we can have political or economic dividends, and that there are our national interests. Please tell me, what is the national interest of Ukraine in Sierra Leone, except that two-thirds of the contingent has contracted severe tropical diseases? What is the national interest of Ukraine in Liberia, where the same is true of more than half of our peacekeepers? In addition, the proper conditions for our contingent to stay in Liberia have not been created. To date, adequate facilities have not been built to accommodate our peacemakers. So what are our national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u68	Thank you. First of all, I would like to emphasize that the decision on the deployment of peacekeepers is, I would say, the result of the joint work of the Supreme Council and the executive bodies, i.e. the relevant laws of the Supreme Council are being adopted. Secondly, I would like to emphasize that by making this decision, we are certainly coming out of this set of issues. That is, the notion of national interests certainly includes the international image and authority of Ukraine. In such cases as Sierra Leone, Liberia, where it was very complex, I would say, such a complex situation that threatened and committed human rights violations were acts of genocide. Of course, I think it would be wrong for Ukraine to stand outside and not respond positively to the Secretary-General's request, the international community. At the same time, we understood that both the secretary-general and the international community came out of the efficiency, efficiency of our peacemakers. Secondly, a very important aspect of our peacekeepers' lack of coverage. Of course, with such facts that can hardly be reconciled, I think it should be a subject of constant attention and by the Ministry of Defence, all those organizations that touch upon the direction of our peacekeepers and their vitality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u69	Thank you, Oleg Vladislavovich, sit down, please. From the Committee, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Kručkov K. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u70	Honorable colleagues, as Adam Ivanovich has already said, should report on such matters to the Supreme Council each year, according to the Law. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Kuchma Presidency did so only after repeated reminders from our committee. The new, true, already retired government, did so only after the approval of the Supreme Council, a special decision that we adopted on April 7th this year. Members of the Committee view this as an expression of disrespect for the Supreme Council and the Law. Just like the fact that the Supreme Council does not approve the proposals for the approval of the structure, the number of force structures, as stated in the Committee's statement earlier. As far as participation in international peacemaking is concerned. It is, as has already been rightly said here, one of the components of Ukraine's foreign policy course. A testimony that our nation is responsible for fulfilling its obligations as a founding member of the United Nations and as a founding member of the United Nations. Participation in peacekeeping operations contributes to the experience of our military cooperation in the military sphere with other nations. During my stay in Iraq, I was pleasantly impressed by the frank statement made by one of the high - ranking leaders of Vasi Province, where our brigade was stationed. He said that Ukrainian military are truly peacekeepers, unlike invaders from other countries in the so-called coalition. True, by thanking our peacemakers, he said, as he resembles those from the East, a very serious phrase: “We want them to come home as soon as possible and come to us as tourists.” Sadly, we have lost more than forty military personnel and one hundred wounded in the image of our peacekeepers who are at risk of life. In Iraq, 17 soldiers were killed. Think about it, your honorary colleagues, relative to the number, compared to the American, our losses are greater than those of the Americans. Thus, a positive image, in general, of the peacemakers, of Ukraine’s authority in the world, is greatly damaged by the negative facts that have already been mentioned here and that have triggered a reaction from the UN. An assessment of what has happened will certainly be given to the law enforcement authorities. But we cannot help but see that on the part of the Ministry of Defence, whose leadership is changing almost every year, there is no such thing as a weakening of control over the situation in peacekeeping contingents and, above all, the actions of the command force assume serious weaknesses in the assembly. Such a question is legitimate, too, fellow believers. The violations and abuses that have become known highlight this. They were done for a long time. How our services work there are called not only to investigate but also to warn such undesirable events, to take action and to inform them at the right time. An analysis of the experience gained, both positive and negative, leads to the conclusions that I have to report. First. There is a need to make substantial adjustments regarding our participation in peacemaking. Ukraine now responds with zeal to little of any proposal, as a well-known character in the film “Operation I” when a trained person jumped on every proposal and said “it is”. This is sometimes done in the interests of other nations or in support of the image of the bankrupt ones, as was the case with our continent heading to Iraq. Some of our government officials simply insist on engaging in peacemaking, for perhaps there is nothing more to offer. For example, the proposals for the deployment of peacekeepers to Nagorny Karabakh, which the speaker of the Azerbaijan Parliament frankly said, we do not need services from other states here. We will solve the problem of Nagorny Karabakh ourselves. However, ours then sang “Lazarus”. We need to respect our country and address such issues, taking into account the national interests of Ukraine. The other one. We need to improve our laws. And one more thing. We need to look at how to use peacekeeping operations not only to engage in peacemaking but to strengthen our strategic interests in the regions concerned. And the government's report is to be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I think that after hearing the report, there is no telling that we should listen to it. The minister's office should be served, we could get to know each other, but really, because the problem is quite acute, because the problem is affecting the interests of our country, we have responded correctly that we have not only met but also heard. I propose to support the committee's proposal and to take this report to the public. I am voting on the Supreme Council's ruling on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine's participation in the maintenance of international peace and security, registration number 7492. Please vote. [[11:56:58]] For 172 Mobilize, please. We need to keep them from dying. I'll say it again. This information was found in the committee’s reports. All these facts, all these facts were called and justly the deputy minister told you: “What we are adopting with you is the law of direction.” We're with you, I mean, enacting laws, let's talk about them in a way that's not on anybody's fault, the arrows, because the arrows on our side are unfortunately on our side. We agree with you. Please vote. Please vote on the annual report. [[11:57:54]] For 201 I don't see much trouble if we don't take it, because it's nothing. But let's still make a decision. Let's vote more friendlyly. Vote, support, please. Support the image of the Supreme Council. [[11:58:35]] For 237 Thank you, the decision is made. For this kind of friendly work, we're going to call it a two-minute break. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, there will be “Victory” all of you will make a statement. In half an hour, it'll be possible. The Rules state that the chairman may or may not announce. Take half an hour, take it. Igor, you'll speak in half an hour. A draft Law on Municipal Property is under consideration, two registration numbers: 6042, 6042-1. They're reporting to Moroz Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. I can't see. King Oleg Anatolyovich. Same thing. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u73	Adam Ivanovich, you're actually responsible for the communists for the undisciplined socialists, and I don't know where Oleg Tsarov is. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Our committee, defined as professional, on property, including utilities, had to date three bills on the issue of settlement of the legal aspects of communal property. The third bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at a time when the Government was headed by Yanukovic and was, of course, withdrawn by the new Cabinet of Ministers. The second bill was submitted by the People's Deputies of Moroz and Semenyuk, but we propose not to consider it today because of the lack of authors. All the bills have been carefully examined by our committee. Unfortunately, they all have their shortcomings and none of them have been positively assessed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. All three conclusions, apart from the mass of comments, have another general proposal: not to enact a separate law, but to amend the Local Self-Government Act accordingly, i.e. to supplement it with a new section entitled, for example, the rights of communal property and common property of the territorial communities and the administration of these facilities. Of course, the problem exists and needs to be addressed. It appears that today, when communal property at the constitutional level is recognized as self-sustaining, its legal regulation has the full right to exist. The existence of three projects at the same time only once again confirms that, at the legislative level, the problems of the management of municipal property facilities by the territorial communities and local authorities are long overdue. This is what the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property, Investment was guided by when it gave green light to the problem. Naturally, the future fate of the bills will be determined by the working group established by our committee from the experts on property and local self-government. Thank you for your attention. Please support the Committee's views and endorse the draft of the people's deputies of Tsarev, Kruglov and the Final on first reading. And the most constructive proposals present in alternative projects, regardless of the current status of deputies and projects, will be included as necessary in the final drafting of the law. With regard to the comments of the Supreme Council's Chief Expert Office, it should be recalled that the section of the five appendices and transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in the year 97 specifically stated that the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Ukrainian State Property Fund, submitted a draft law on municipal property within two months of the date of entry into force of the Act for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So a separate utility property law has the full right to exist. Thanks again for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u74	Thank you. Is there a question? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, what will we discuss? Come on, let's talk for 12 minutes. Onopenko. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u75	Basil Onopenko, head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, unlike Vladimir Josephovich, with all due respect for the drafters, I must say that such a bill is not needed by Ukraine at all. The point is that the issues of municipal property are settled in the Constitution of Ukraine, the Property Law, the Transfer of Objects of State and Communal Property, and the Civil Code and the Master Code of Ukraine. Some questions are settled two times, three times. If we're going to write the fourth time, I don't think the situation is going to get any better. We need to regulate those relationships, those gaps that are not regulated by legislation. In addition, the bill itself has many flaws. First of all, if only for a little while. Article 140 of the Constitution defines the notion of “territorial communities” as “rural residents or voluntary unification into the rural community of several villages, villages and cities”. In draft article 4 of the bill, it is quite different from the Constitution of Ukraine. Next. Article 7 of the project lists property rights. The designated list is narrower than the list established today in existing legislation. There are no such facilities as catering facilities, commerce, local energy systems, communication systems, information, and so on. Articles 10, 11 of the bill deal with the grounds for the creation and termination of municipal property rights. First of all, the Civil Code of Ukraine operates in terms of ownership and not creation. [[Article 10 of the Code]] This, they say in Odessa, is two big differences. Secondly, the grounds for the creation and termination of property rights are not limited to 3-4 reasons, as stated in the bill, and the Civil Code itself provides for more than 10 reasons. For example, there is no mention at all of the transfer of the immovable property to municipal property, or of the recognition of an inheritance from the deceased as important and new to the public. On the basis of the new Civil Code. Articles 12 and 12 strengthen the authority of local governments. But here it is, it should be in the law of self-government. The content of corporate rights, their management is in chapters 7 and 8, but this is provided for in the Master's Procedural Code. The indecisiveness of the bill itself. Chapter 9 consists of only one article. Where'd you see that? I mean, this bill didn't go through the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u76	Well, if the faction's hurt, let's give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u77	I didn't go through our committee, and that's very important. That's why I think it needs to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u78	Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Vasil Nadraga is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today’s letters from residents tell you that there are still thieving facts when the funds available in their accounts had to be set up as loans to make loans payable to the State. But in many cases this is not done. And the question is, where do these funds go and how many people can be robbed? In the end, the basic principles and procedures for the exercise of municipal property rights and the legal basis for the administration of municipal property rights and the administration of common property facilities of territorial communities, villages, villages, and cities must be defined. I also received a letter from the students of commercial technology and the right of name in Kirovograd. They're worried about what's left of the dorm because some oligarch bought it. And what rights have students been left homeless? Who asked them, ‘ Would they agree to stay in the hostel? ’ The same fate awaits the family dormitory, which is located in the 101st microregion of the city of Kirovgrad. Who granted the right to evict people from their homes in Soviet times, and they lived there for more than a decade? These are the investors who, by “investing” in our economy, are also doing “good” for our people. [[in quotes]] [[in quotes]] The mass of public property embezzlement, participation in the “admission” of senior officials, indicates that Ukraine has been robbed of space money, since the hammer has sold and continues to sell state property. Individual managers increase the debt of their businesses, and the assets on the balance sheet are accounted for. It comes to cynicism: they sell dormitories with residents even two or three times. People are being evicted. What, then, is being done in the state, the honourable colleagues. And since the government that's been hanging noodles on all the people of Ukraine for seven months today has no ears, please tell me, Mr. President, when this chaos is over? We Communists have always spoken and we will act at all levels against the thievery of anti-national authorities. And local community services should take their functions seriously and refrain from allowing the local authorities to abuse and abuse people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u80	Please, Vasil Nadraga, faction of the People's Party. Solomon will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u81	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the treatment of the Law on Communal Property should, in my view, not be based on any global assessments there, but on the usual question. If we recognize that there is a State, if we recognize that a State, a State governance system is a sufficiently specific area of social activity, the property of that State should accordingly be regulated accordingly. Because today, for example, as a senior deputy, I am constantly addressed with a number of questions. For example, what are the properties of urban communities? This can be discussed today, but there is a problem, and it must be addressed. What is the question of what is regional communal property? Because the sources of financing, the possibility of using this property and everything else are also not regulated by the general property law. Therefore, when we speak today: whether or not we should adopt the Law, I believe that for first reading more than we have, there is more than just reason to adopt the Law and then to refine it. Because I can say that, for example, we need to resolve the situation and what co-financing is from different budgets of individual property objects, depending on the level and the community they belong to. For example, what is a district hospital today? How other budgets or other sources of funding can enable the establishment of a normal regional health facility in a given territory. Therefore, I believe that this must be done. It is also deeply convinced that there must be a separate law, in this case, a law on communal property, which should be separate from the general property law, that issues of property ownership, namely communal property, must be written because, today, by covering up some kind of conversation, that our common property is created with this property and what colleagues have already called it on the stand and what has not yet been heard from this rostrum. [[rentals]] Therefore, the rental, terms of the lease, control, transfer of ownership and everything else when we talk about utilities should be regulated by separate legislation. Finally, I believe that, of course, this law should address the issue of communal property in terms of sources of financing for the maintenance, operation and use of these facilities. Today we must accept and write separately what communal property is when it comes to the means that are earned by the so-called owner. We need to understand today, as I have already said, what such co-financing from different budgets, budgets from different levels of the utilities should be resolved or not addressed. Finally, how can foreign funds be used to maintain the proper form and, respectively, for the operation of utilities. Thus, based on this logic, I believe that for first reading we must vote in favour and then work together, because communal property is a specific property.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u82	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u83	Yuri Solomatin, faction of the Communist Party Vladimir Ilic Lenin. Respectable comrades! We are now proposing a draft Law on Communal Property. Let us remember that we have only recently had one common property and we have lived beautifully, and now that it has been placed, and especially in private hands, and a veiled form of such theft, in my view, is also communal property. That is exactly what will happen if the political system in Ukraine continues to exist. Only if the political system was fundamentally changed would the power be restored to the hands of the workers, would it be a socialist way of production. Only in these political and socio-economic conditions can communal property find a decent place. And under the capitalist mode of production and domination of the bourgeoisie in Ukraine, this will be another way of being veiled: to steal from people what they own. Many can tell us that there are certain levers and balances that would prevent us from stealing what belongs to the entire nation. I think these stories are for the naive. And we are witnessing with you what is happening right now when in Ukraine there is a political crisis, when those who have shrunk from every Ukrainian Mayan about pure hands, transparent authority, about honesty and truth have once again shown the dirty and vile nature of their political nature. I think that we, the Ukrainian people's deputies, should clearly place political emphasis on the social and class position when considering such drafts. I think it is not only because there are many legal and legal issues in this bill, as one of our colleagues spoke of, speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but, above all, from a socio-classical point of view, that bill is one that is not in time. And, I think you could send him back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u84	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's demonstrate Parliament's work. And with that number of deputies in the room, we'll support the decision. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the Municipal Property Act, registration number 6042. Author of Frost. Please vote. [[12:48:09]] For 116 Not supported. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 6042-1, author of Kings and others. Please vote. [[12:48:39]] For 105 Please, Matthew Volodymira microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u85	Matveev, faction of the Ukrainian company. In general, I do not understand the position of the factions of the regions. Their comrade in the Kruglov faction submits a draft law on communal property. In the Hall, the Party of the Regions does not vote in favour. Is it disrespect for Kruglov, disrespect for the law, disrespect for municipal property or disrespect for the Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u86	Yes, dear fellows, raise your hands against this law. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party You know, my friends, we have once adopted a very good Property Law. He was accepted long enough, and all the conditions, including municipal property, were written down there. It would be much better to work on it today than to stretch out legislation on particles. The particle is communal property, the particle is corporate property. Then perhaps the Civil Code was adopted. Let's go through the codification of legislation, not the stretching of it in parts, because then it's very hard to work with. I mean, from this point of view, I don't see the subject of adopting such a separate law, but of redrafting the Property Act, I think it's already urgent and it's on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u88	Thank you. I'm completely in solidarity with my colleague Assadchev, which, in fact, we have laws, I've once analyzed the situation probably in no state of the world as many laws as we don't have, and the meaning of that. Please, Onesuchk, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u89	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues! I would like to speak in support of our colleague Assadchev, who rightly noted that all fundamental property issues should be governed by the Constitution and the Civil Code. I want to draw your attention to the fact that when we adopted the Civil Code, Ukraine's Property Act has been repealed, and now we want to go back to the old practice in order to pass the law on every kind or form of property. We're just going to destroy the legal system. I also want to draw attention to the fact that in professional, legal circles, I mean scientists, first of all, this topic, as it wasn't urgently discussed, is not in the order of the day, like this. So I'd like to listen to Vassil Onopenko's speech, the honorary of our MPs, the drafters of the bill, but obviously it's not a scientific idea yet, and it's conceptually justified. Hence, the law is likely to have to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u90	Yes, respectable colleagues, indeed, the problem of ownership is the basic issue of the life of every society so that it needs to be settled. They talk about it or they don't talk about it, but it needs to be settled, because it's essential. What's more, we've got a pretty big gap in the Constitution. We only recorded government, municipal, and private property there. And collective property, like rudimentary property, was thought to be, as it were, forgotten in the past. And collective ownership is real, because political party ownership, what form? State? No, it's not. Communicated? No, private? No, it's not. It's collective property. What is the property of religious communities? Collective. A creative community, what? That's the head of the National Writer Association, what does he own? Creation? Do you understand? So that's a problem enough, and it's serious enough. And it's too bad that scientists don't discuss it. They talk about everything else, and they don't go back. Yes, I understand we don't have enough votes to adopt this bill. So let's give a protocol commission to the profile committee and the drafters of the bill what colleagues Assadchev and Onischuk have suggested that, really, let's recommend that they make appropriate changes to the Property Act and try, even if they do, to add collective property. Because it really exists. Yes, well-respected colleagues, if only. Replica Oneichuk, please. He's going to justify it for the scientists right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I support your point of view that it is necessary to improve the legal regulation of property relations, but I want to make it clear that changes should be made to the Civil Code or to the Constitution when it affects the forms of property that it defines. Adam Ivanovich, taking this opportunity, I draw your attention to the faction that two factions, such as the faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the “Trubic Ukraine”, are asking you to give an opportunity to make a brief statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u92	In a few minutes, you'll have that opportunity. Now we're settling things peacefully, don't worry. Dear colleagues, I'd like your permission. The Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons is very much asking if you would accept the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the creation of workplaces for persons with disabilities]] Shall we take a look at it? I ask you to vote. I think it's clear. Let us vote on the adoption in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the creation of workplaces for persons with disabilities]] Registration number 6433. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:55:33]] For 177 Yes. There's been a gap. Oh, come on, please, there's so little in the hall. Do your job. Well, the law that you all understand is all the more the first time you read it. Show me through the factions, please. Well, I see all the factions to support this bill. I am voting once again in the first reading on the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the Creation of Workplaces for Persons with Disabilities, 6433. Please vote. Vote. First reading, we'll work it out. Vote. [[12:56:32]] For 267 Thank you. The law is passed. So what else do we have here that burns? Well, it's like everything else. Dear colleagues, well, as you will respond, this is about the general principles of further exploitation of the exploitation of the Chernobyl AES and the transformation of the damaged fourth energy cloud of this AES into an environmentally sound system. Can we vote on this law in the first reading? Oh, no? No, so no. Please sign up for different things. Given what has been insisted upon taking a break from the four factions, we will begin with them. Please, from the faction “Go ahead, Ukraine”, “Industrials and Entrepreneurs”, who? That's it. Please prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u93	Honorable National MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine. Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political party “Industries and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine”. Declaration by the faction “Industrials and entrepreneurs of Ukraine” in Parliament, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear friends! On September 8, 2005, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine signed decrees on the resignation of the government and the resignation of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. This decision, in our view, has resulted from misunderstandings by high officials of the importance of public interest, the inability to work exclusively for a citizen and a state that is the highest preference for a civil servant. The “Industrials and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” party and the faction in parliament agree with the position of the President of Ukraine that the events of the last days are a necessary but necessary stage for the establishment of new power, its renewal and the movement to a quality state. We are not inclined to dramatize events, to resort to apocalyptic assessments, as is the case in the media, and to see in the actions of the President of Ukraine a testimony, not of weakness, but of strength and maturity, to the political will of the head of state as a guarantor of the Constitution. The “Industrials and Entrepreneurs” party and its faction in Parliament have consistently drawn attention to the need for substantial adjustments in socio-economic policy, still being conducted by the government of the country, and warned that the examination of power is no less serious and responsible than a test of revolution. We are ready to continue to act as a stabilizing factor in society by making every effort to put confidence in society and society in power and to ensure that reforms are irreversible. Small and medium-sized businesses will always support efforts aimed at building a powerful state with a competitive economy to secure high moral principles of public authority. The “Industrials and Entrepreneurs” party and its faction emphasize that politicians in their relations should be guided, not by their own, fractional or bureaucratic corporate interests, but by the fact that all their activities must be subordinated to the interests of the Ukrainian people, to the growth of their prosperity and to the prosperity of our Ukraine. We call on all the political forces that are represented in society and in Parliament to help restore the effective cooperation of all branches of government, the consolidation of the entire Ukrainian society. Only by understanding the responsibility of the people, highly professional cooperation, constructive dialogue, and teamwork can the desired results be achieved. The faction of the political party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the fourth call. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u94	Yes, from the faction “Ukraine” and the Social Democratic Party Storm Games, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u95	The Shurma faction, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The MP’s faction of SDPU(O) draws the attention of the MP factions and groups, the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, in particular the Head of the Supreme Council of Mr. Lithuania, to blocking the debate in the Parliament of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is known that the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act of 28 November 2002 was passed by the Supreme Council. In December of that year, the President returned the law to Parliament with proposals for reconsideration. But until now, the President's proposals remain pending in plenary. In turn, failure to complete the legislative procedure under the preliminary bill deprives legislators of the right to go to parliament with a new bill. That is how the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, developed by Ukrainian National Deputy Kravczuk, was rejected. At the same time, the body of the Supreme Council, which is responsible for preparing for the review of the Ukrainian Act on Cabinet of Ministers, has been removed from its responsibilities. And that's how the faction of SDPU evaluates the situation. Bill 0893 is not stubbornly introduced into the session room because of the unwillingness to consider, and our proposals for a constructive solution to the problem are ignored. A red - language example. A draft decree by the Supreme Council on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council on the adoption of the Kabmin Act has been returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registered again at the seventh session, remains out of the Parliament's attention. In the latter, we apologize for trying to deliberately obstruct the subject of the legislative initiative to exercise our rights, and we pay attention to this leadership of Parliament and of the committee. The adoption of the Ukrainian Cabinet Act today is an urgent necessity. Since January of the following year, the changes voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitution have come into force, under which the role of the Cabinet of Ministers, as the principal executive body, has changed significantly. Legislative uncertainty about the Cabinet of Ministers in the new circumstances is of particular importance. The faction states that Ukraine's Cabinet of Ministers Act unfortunately becomes the subject of political trade before the parliamentary elections. They are convinced that this is precisely the main reason for its blocking in Parliament. The faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine of the United States is protesting Parliament's introduction beyond regulatory working methods and demanding that the Supreme Council's work be unlocked over the Cabinet of Ministers Act by putting forward a draft order for us to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council, which was returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine for reconsideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! By supporting the substance of the statement, I strongly protest against its content. No one's delaying anything. I just want to remind you of a well-known constitutional standard: everything should be consistent with the Constitution. What law on the Cabinet of Ministers can we today adopt, on the basis of the actual position of the Constitution or on the basis of those changes that may or may not exist? I'm also saying it will, but let's wait for January 1st and take it according to the current Constitution change or, more faithfully, the Cabinet of Ministers Act. No one's blocking, I repeat, baseless accusations. It's an objective reality, I'm not taking anything from anyone. I'll give it to you. Don't rehearse, they can't hear you. Please, Vernigor, follow him, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u97	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Kyiv says he listens to the whole of Ukraine. So often these words on the radio are so common that we are used to them. And so it must be: Kiev is the capital, so who else should we listen to or listen to, or repeat what Kyiv does, such as for all of us? Let's say they're selling out, selling out the best deals, parks and sanatoriums in Desert Water. And the same resorts and sanitariums. And really, he listens to all of Ukraine, and he does it in capital. What's worse is we're thinking in the famous city of Mirgorod? What are the smaller ones, but we are further away from the capital, and who do we have here? A decision was made and taken at the Peacetown City Council meeting to transfer the resort’s recreational zone to the construction of private cottages, as now known, to the capital builders. They're running out of deserts. Maybe the same thing, who was set up by the new authority for the legitimate assignments in the Vodica Desert? This is evidence of work related to the construction of the Mirrod resort, according to the master plan. For 70-85 years, in the resort area, hydrotechnical works were carried out, aimed at deepening and clearing the Horol River's rudder, the development of pain, melioration, and the construction of sanatoriums. Today this area, as I said, is being allocated to ActiveInvest for the construction of private cottages by the City Council. So they do what they do in Desert Water. For me, there are healthy forces in the Supreme Council, especially the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which consistently elects and protects the social guarantees of the workers of Ukraine. It's not a faction on the outside and it's a matter of property that's in the knowledge of trade unions. Some faction deputies, when they learned about the crime, the embezzlement of sanatoriums, passed bills on the alienation of property to the trade union and the transfer of property to its state. On these issues, Alexander Moroz, the head of the faction, held business meetings with the leaders of trade unions, does not stand outside the State Property Fund, which is headed by a member of the Semenyuk faction. Socialists for the preservation of sanatoriums in public property for the benefit of the people. People are the only ones who dare not use their property against themselves. It is hoped that other healthful forces in the Supreme Council will support the proposals made by the LSP factions regarding the adoption of the Law on Property of Ukrainian Social Organizations, by which the assets used by trade unions today are strengthened in their knowledge without the right to alienate, distribute, and redistribute for other purposes. By the same law, the State determines the form of ownership handed over to the knowledge professions and leaves the right of control over compliance with the law. So we do not delay, and it is not too late to correct the mistakes made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u98	Thank you. A little clarification. Semenyuk is not a member of your faction. She's not a deputy anymore. She's a member of your party. Please, Orzhachowski. Get ready for Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u99	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear colleagues, voters! The deaf corner where the village and the peasant poor reformers were brought is now obvious. Instead of strengthening the state, looking for a so - called effective host, they brought the country back to live transportation, soaps, and shovels. Similarly, the destruction of collective property, the adoption of the antinational land code, under which land is covered, has resulted in the destruction of largely commercial and highly productive agriculture. Today, preparations are being made for the capture of 30-trillion-dollar wealth in which the Ukrainian land is valued. It seems that after the breakup, it would be worth stopping, but Mr. Yushchenko and his team continue to experiment with tariffs, personnel, credits, currency depreciation instead of tranquillity, and the restoration of manufacturing complexes in villages and villages. A new affair called “administrative-territorial reform” has also come with orange authority, which envisions the mapping of Ukraine under NATO military standards, new electoral technologies, the sale of land to foreign and rich people after the recognition of its goods and the redistribution of community property. The turmoil surrounding the planned reforms of the European strategy for joining the WTO is nothing less than the beginning of preparations for Ukraine’s complete submission by external forces. That's why confirmation is an effort by the government to adopt the land trade law and auction activity on the land market or websites, the United States, where Ukrainian land is called no different than my land, probably theirs. Ukraine is already struggling to meet its own needs for basic agricultural products. The situation can become much more dangerous if the earth, as a nation’s wealth, is sold. It's going to be an object of speculation, because Ukrainian Blacklands are a national strategic resource, mostly environmentally pure. As a basis for the stability of the state and society, conservation of the land fund should be seen as a component of national security. The movement of the earth will inevitably lead to the transformation of Ukraine into a Third World State. It is easy to know that the Baltica is virtually deprived of its land — it has been adopted by the countries of the European Union. There are two concepts in the world of modern land relations: the concept of land tenure, when it is passed on to the earth, but the right to use it. Ukraine, on the other hand, had a model of relations with increasing private property. The realities of modern - day Ukrainian reality show that today’s corrupt and unprofessional authorities, which the Supreme Council does not accept, will not allow the land, as well as factories, to work for the peasants. We need to remember that land is Ukraine's food security, efficient production, employment, social well-being. In another case, it's poverty, mass discontent. The Communist leader Simonenko said that the land is a peasant capital, without protecting the Ukrainian field as the property of the people, it is preserved by foreign owners, thereby finally consolidating our food dependence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Uncle, pass the word to Victor Taran. Get ready to pull the trigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u101	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends, respectable citizens of Ukraine! Victor Terrence, the Motherland Party. Dear friends, there are two character figures in Ukraine, two character figures that Ukraine knows, it knows the world, it's Victor Yushchenko, it's Julia Timoshenko. And it was in that they were together, together in the presidential election and together in power, that people associated their hopes and expectations for a better life. Betraying this unity means betraying Ukraine in large numbers, betraying this unity means betraying millions of those with bronchitis and pneumonia who advocated our "orange revolution". And that's why people are so confused and anxious today, because the President himself has caused such a severe blow to the Ukrainian nation. And I'm going to talk again today about what I've been talking about here, this is about a government resignation order. The official basis for such an order is the absence of a single government team, but dear friends, the same team was brought into government by the President himself. There is no minister in the government, I would stress, of such political power as the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc. Moreover, the President has made 56 human resources assignments. These appointments were carried out without agreement with the Prime Minister. This was done in the wake of the Constitution. Again, no one else, like Viktor Andriyovich, appreciated the government's work at 12 points. He said that he was proud of this government because it was young and promising. He spoke of him with beautiful, well - deserved words, and two weeks later he resigns. But, dear friends, I am deeply convinced that in the new government there will be very many ministers of the old government, all but Timoshenko. I mean, giving up the government is just a mechanism, it's just a way to get rid of it. This is the revenge of the oligarchs, which they carried out and carried out, unfortunately, with the hands of the President. And once again, unfortunately, the President actually put those who stole and those who embodied the idea of an "orange revolution" on one board. Today, dear friends, unfortunately, “excited joy all the way across the country”, as Rotaru sings, in the camp of Medvedchuk and others. The joy of the Pro-Moscow “fifth column”, but I want to say again about what I was talking about today: we will never be together with the anti-Ukrainian forces, either in Parliament or in elections. Don't get your hopes up. We will seek the unification of all the patriotic forces in Ukraine, because Julia Timoshenko has no injustice, and all of us who have the privilege of joining her faction, her party, not a deep human offense, nor injustice will ever replace what is most holy among us – Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u102	Please, Oleg Pullibok. Get ready for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u103	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, Head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the issue I would like to talk about is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it is we, as representatives of the highest legislative body, that we can directly change the state of things. This question concerns the return of the “nationality” count in the passport of a Ukrainian citizen. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has developed a programme to protect Ukrainians, which is now being presented in Ukraine. And I want to tell you that among the Ukrainian community, the problem of the return of the count in passports is that “nationality” gets huge support. We all remember very well the old Soviet passports that contained such an earl. And each of us was Ukrainian, Polish, Belarusian, Lithuanian. Unfortunately, after Ukraine gained its independence, this chart of new passports disappeared. In fact, we stole our nationality. The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the approval of the passport of a Ukrainian citizen and the birth certificate”, I recall, was adopted on June 27, 1992, and we all remember very well that there was a large proportion of Ukrainians in Ukraine who sabotaged the replacement of passports only because of the lack of “nationality” in the new passport. After all, this is explained by a simple philosophical statement: there is no term. Today we can't ask questions about Ukrainians, about protecting Ukrainians, because they're talking about a political nation, they're talking about national minorities, but they're not actually talking about protecting the nation. According to the last population census, we Ukrainians have over 78% in Ukraine, but we actually don't have the right definition. In fact, such a graph and such a designation are not found in the birth certificate or in other documents. By the way, the count in the passport “nationality” was taken from us without asking permission from the Ukrainians themselves. It was just a political decision. And the return of this graph will definitely contribute to the preservation and prosperity of the Ukrainian nation. In fact, if we continue to take the count away from the passport of nationality, we can expect what's called the celebration of globalism. After the count, our nationality can be taken from us by name, may be taken from our father, and will remain the same identification code. Dear society, we are not America to glue everyone to a pile. The Ukrainian must remain Ukrainian, the Polish Pole, the Hague, the Hague, the Uzbek. The U.S. Freedom Force insists on returning to passports and other documents of the Count of Nationality. And if we have to hold a proper All-Ukrainian referendum, we all have the right to feel proud of our nation, pride for being Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u104	Oleg, it's much easier and cheaper to change the law, why do we need referendums. Please, Mikola Shershun. But it's absolutely the right idea that we should all feel like being a citizen of the nationality that we are. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Get Puck ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u105	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Sadly, only a few years after the collapse of the Soviet Union, we in Ukraine noticed that from the point of view of the new state, an important line of work with young people fell. The government came to the fore when young people began to undergo mass training by street and prison, while the word racketeers, or drug addicts, became commonplace. Since then, in a decade, a new system of youth work has been completed in Ukraine. Through the family department and the young, through social services, young people. Two years ago, these experts were practically the first to come to work in the village. In December of last year, the government adopted a decision that it had foreseen to introduce, on a paid basis, youth specialists in every rural council. And that's right, because working with young people is a job on the ground floor, not in high-level offices, even if these offices are in the area. Regrettably, today it has been noted that the new direction of the Ministry of Youth and Family, which now combines with sports, has virtually destroyed the network of youth work. For example, there were over 300 rural social services centers for families of children and young people working on a permanent basis. They were people who received their wages, who were conscientious about their duties. Now they are not financed in Ukraine. In three areas, profile offices have become sectors of one performer, who also lost about 200 dollars in salary, but they also have to take care of sports. So we can say with concern that no one in the area or in the village today, I emphasize, is working with young people. In the background of the government's Homelessness and Carelessness Programme, on which we put 70 million dollars, it looks like a social diversion. And the question is, where will this money go? And most importantly, who's going to deal with these kids? I think he's disoriented in this problem and the President of Ukraine. After all, it may provide objective information to the minister about family and youth and sports, who has not met for a nine - month period of his work at any time with the participation of the supervisors of the district authorities, so that he can be familiar with the problems on the spot. I believe that the unification of the Ministry of Family and Youth and the Ministry of Sport has been profoundly flawed and pointless. The new composition of the government should be studied by the error of the predecessors and, in the shortest term, give the order in the field of responsibility. Because of the fact that a bracelet invested in young people returns by a thousand years of age, the moral principles established in childhood make it a state or a strong one, and the authority is patriotic or weak, and the authority is immoral. Please consider my speech an official request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Park, the faction “Our Ukraine”. Get ready. Novak gives the word to Lechchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u107	Vladimir Park, faction of the People's Union “Our Ukraine”. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues on the radio! I want to draw your attention again to the situation around the military town of Makarov-1. In the spring, I was forced to appeal repeatedly to the government of Ukraine, the executive authorities, about the difficult situation in which the people of the military town also found themselves. It's been a long summer. The paper mass used to answer my queries and queries. And the situation in the town is the same: in the school and in the nursery, the roofs are still unrepaired. Indeed, the small cost of repairing the shelters of these schools has never been allocated. Understand that children do not care what state institution it is: The Ministry of Defence, Finance, or Education Administration will allocate funds so that schoolchildren can learn under normal conditions. Therefore, I cannot be satisfied with the ministry’s explanations of how and when I could set aside funds, budget lines, school balance, or kindergarten. The same situation with the repair of the boiler and heating of a military town. Dear government officials, in response to my appeal to the town’s residents in the winter, will not warm themselves, and the situation is catastrophic and the town is not ready for winter. Once again, the situation is worsened by the fact that the military town has no administrative and territorial status and correspondingly local self-government, local budget and other mechanisms, and the resolution of urgent social issues. All the powers of the executive branch have been realized by the visiting working council of several ministries and departments and representatives of the administration and local self - government of the Kyiv and Žitomir regions on 13 July 2005. However, further discussions and adopted drafts on paper and decisions on the matter did not go away. So I am specifically addressing the leadership of the regional governments of Kyiv and Žitomirsk, district councils, the leadership and deputies of the Makarov and Radomisl district councils: return to the people of Makarov-1, give people the opportunity to create a self-government body because they are tired of asking for charity from your resources. The people of the town have been waiting for more than two years for your decisions to be made on the basis of an administrative and territorial unit. I urge the President of Ukraine to intervene in the situation and to give appropriate instructions for the immediate allocation of funds from the State budget for the repair of schools and kindergartens and the establishment of a local self-government body. Noticed that we will try to solve the situation by way of bureaucracy by type, quote: “Your proposals.”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u108	Thank you. You said the main thing. Novak gives the word to Lechchenk, to prepare for Dashutin, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u109	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In my speech, I want to raise two questions: First. It's about crises in agriculture. Today we should hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the situation in the agri-industrial complex. But this did not happen because of the well - known designs of the clans on the official olympics. The situation in the whole field of the domestic economy is terrible. The free agrarian policy of all the temporary bourgeois governments and presidents of Ukraine, including Timoshenko and Yushchenka, has recently led to a systemic crisis in agriculture, destroyed materials and technical bases, more than 10 million hectares of relays are not being processed, agriculture has largely become a part of the world's eye, in the vast majority of farms have forgotten about all the changes in fertilizers, and crops are mainly grown under the conditions of residual natural fertility. Compared to 1990, cattle were reduced by 3-5 times. The government of socialists and nationalists, who resigned with their conscious actions to undermine agriculture, gave him an additional blow. His crime-tariff policy is for a domestic worker. The budgetary funding of the APC programmes is limited in terms of the residual principle. Ukraine has been disgraced by the shortage of about half a million tons of meat for internal needs in the current year. The oligarchs provoked the sugar crisis, and the government decided to overcome it by smuggling cane hearts. So the sugar branch is destroyed. Lack of government, at least a primitive forecast of the need for grain production, led to its reproducing, depreciating, and depreciating holdings in the current year. In many regions, under the conditions of intense fuel exploration, they are now refusing to sow osmium. If so, Ukraine will lose its food security completely. An immediate and effective intervention by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed. The other one. It's about a sharp rise in housing-communal tariffs. The government of nationalists and socialists in retirement, the treaty of oligarchic clans was not controlled or controlled by the price of energy and material and technical resources. Under such conditions, suppliers of traders make them redundant, have unlimited profits, and are profited. This has caused a significant increase in local tariff authorities for residential services in all regions of Ukraine. In many cities, many protests are taking place at the initiative of the Communists, and they will be held in several regions of Ukraine tomorrow. In the city of Priluka, Chernigiv district, for example, more than 10,000 signatures have been collected by the Communists, requiring the Mesquikkonka to stop it. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., there'll be a protest at the mayor's house. I turn to the attachments: don't sit at home, come to the protest, tell your 'no' to such actions of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u110	Mikola Melnik, a faction of socialists. Get ready for Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u111	Mikola Melnik, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Finally, Ukraine talked about what I was talking about from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at a previous session. Peter Prashenko is now the ex-head of the Council on National Security and Defence of Ukraine, an official who, by virtue of his official duties to take care of the security of the state, has used his office cynically and criminally for useful purposes. But the facts I was talking about included even more terrible ones on the table at Shevchenkov’s court when I was being questioned by the judge in the examination of Peter Prashenko’s case. Yes, according to the president of the “PRO-Europe” association, Boris Assadova, Peter Poroshenko has an interest in illegal arms transfers through the Illichev port, which was one of the groups. In addition, Poroshenko used his service position to pressure the judicial system not only of Ukraine but also of Moldova. Now, Moldovan firms, controlled by the stocks he owns, are transferring money to offshore areas. There's a lot to put together. So Dustenko is robbing not only Ukraine but also the neighboring state. And there is no guarantee that his interests at this end. Perhaps another country will experience the concern of Peter Alexiovich. As a result of these facts, I have made a parliamentary request to the relevant law enforcement authorities. In addition, new data have emerged in recent times. During the days of the head of the Supreme Court of Commerce, Dmitry Popretika stated that the Ukrainian Judicial Reform Commission, headed by Peter Poroshenko, had eliminated appeals courts that did not comply with orders from above. It is the liquidation of Zaporzik, Žitomirski, Luhansk’s Court of Appeal, as well as the unification of the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal and Kyiv’s Court of Appeal in the sole Kyiv Regional Court of Appeal. He also added that the liquidation of the said courts involved several cases where decisions were not handed down as Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko had intended. That is what his companions call him. Friends on the team. Dmitry Pritica reported that he had documents bearing witness to such pressure. The head of the Luhansk Appellate Court of Commerce, Paramonov, reported that the talks had raised questions about the bankruptcy of the NZO. Thus, the existence of the Luhansk Court of Appeal was dependent on the proper solution. And now that Dustenko has left not only his farming position but also his parliamentary integrity, I hope that the law enforcement authorities will carry out an objective investigation, he will find himself where he needs to be. And me. Let's see what happens to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u112	You have a touch. Puzakov Vladimir, Communist faction. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u113	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, we are witnessing more and more voters losing an orange log. In front of the eyes, making sure that they were wrong the next time they voted for the crane in heaven, which proved to be a predatory crumb for Ukraine. As we have witnessed, today’s political team has been raking up to state weights against the background of the weak social policy of its predecessors, promising every electorate what he wanted to hear. There were also promises by the President, exclusively social ones, promises to protect the pensioners and the disabled whom they had been waiting for, but not as they thought. Where, then, is the “Meet People” program? If, in the end, any of the new powers will meet them. That's all, good people, as you can see today, was an orange lie. Why all three documents are extremely relevant, which are expected by pensioners and disabled persons, the President of Ukraine vetoed, because they are intended for the implementation of the People's Programme. So it turns out that this program is no longer functional. And how can it be estimated that the 16,000 officials who have been led to the power trough, the so - called, orange revolution, are stealing even more intensely, with almost 10 times the wages being raised for all of them? It is not clear to the people how it happened that the lack of income and pensions, as a sin, coincided with the acquisition of a large group of prestigious - class cars for the same officials. And that, as you can see, was enough budget. In turn, the pensioners in those miserable coins are taking everything away from them, deceiving them a hundred times. For example, the city of Alexandria of pensioners, who were members of the commission and observers at the polling stations in the presidential pension campaign, counted 39 dollars, and was motivated by the fact that they received money for participating in the election. What can this action be called? And who gave the right to do so? What are the tenets that I follow from the health minister’s orders to take only prescriptions? Perhaps they plan to reduce the number of drug addicts? No, not the way the government and the ministry went, for which he was justly retired. We need to create first of all jobs for young people, ensure normal living conditions for young people. Tramadol junkies will buy the most from employees who seem to be struggling with it elsewhere. And here for the hundredth time, they didn't think of what it meant for a pensioner or a disabled person to go to the clinic every week and try to get a prescription. In such daily “troubles” pensioner disabled and all Ukrainians received from the anti-national government. And we've long since found out that there's nothing to expect from the President of Ukraine himself except sweet promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u114	The word is Basil Nadrag, a faction of the People's Party. Get ready. Masurenko gives Shurmi the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Today, as our distinguished Chairman's requests were read out from this morning, a parliamentary request was also read out, which I, along with my colleague and fellow countryman from Lugansk. Alexander Ivanovich. This request was sent to the Minister of the Interior and therefore concerns the situation surrounding the Luhana Academy of Internal Affairs on behalf of the 10th Year of Independence of Ukraine. What's the problem? Let me remind myself and make a sound about it. Regrettably, in the east of Ukraine, there were no special institutions to train domestic workers in any case in the Lugansk region. At the same time, at the initiative of the former Chief of the Regional Office of the Interior, who subsequently became the Rector, who is now irreplaceablely the head of the Office and now is Colonel-General of the Interior, Didoenko Edouard Alekseevich, from nothing, I stress, from nothing in enthusiasm, the experience of internal affairs authorities, through the help of internal affairs experts in Luhansk, an academy was established, which is rightly considered one of the best, one of the best educational institutions in the system of internal affairs in our country. I have to tell you, the amazing thing is, someone probably didn't like it here. Here, I mean, in Kiev, because for several years this educational institution has been targeted. I must tell you that, with former Minister Bilokon, the team has only endured 14 audits last year, including financial activities. To what extent questions had not been asked, what questions had not been asked, what had not been done. The issues were both at the Academy itself and at the Charity Fund, which was established at the Academy and helped to resolve financial issues. Let me put it this way: last year this financial activity was checked. Minfina in Lugansk, Ministry of the Interior, Court of Auditors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, in a large way, everything is designed to determine whether or not there are violations. There are no violations. But the situation is not changing. Claims are being filed, and I must tell you that after the Orange Revolution, there has been a new wave, the essence of which is that three court hearings have already been denied by the court three times the claims submitted to both the academy and the fund and its manager. This raises the question, and we ask the Minister that “a respected fellow minister, you will understand, please”. If someone doesn't like the existence of the Academy of Internal Affairs in Luhansk, let them go out and explain publicly why they don't like it. But you can't treat it. Today's work force, the platoon students, because everyone's waiting for another one, I'm sorry, well. another horse will be thrown out by some of the verifiers, which paper is removed and which claims are filed, despite the fact that, I emphasize, all the claims that are being filed by the court are withdrawn. I mean, the point is one thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u116	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Teeth will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u117	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today, there is one valid question — whether the orange authority has a human face. Does she realize that civil society is shaped by the principles of law and morals in civilized relations between citizens and the state? I wanted to appeal to representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, particularly the Minister, so that now that he has the opportunity to think about his past actions and his plans for the future, he could analyze what was going on. I wanted to appeal to the government in bed to the people whom the President first described as varnishes, and after 3-4 months he resigned. What is happening today, in particular in Lviv? Today, there are no limits to the way things are done. I'd like to ask Mr. Moskal that his best man Maximov, the head of the Internal Affairs Department of the Lviv region, before he shows you the reports he's done and how much he's discovered criminal matters along with his colleagues he's crossing the line. I understand that the decision of the Pecher Court, one of which is here, is the entire product of the activities of the former corrupt Secretary of the National Security Council of Dustenka, because they allow for the search and search of circuses on people's apartments in 2002 cases. Isn't it funny to have a court decision when they say to check out a suspect's room, come 50 people, and turn the house upside down, looking for a suspect. And the reason is very simple: one of the suspects is former customs chief Kozak. He's told by the search party: “Just give a witness to Medvedchuk – and we will stop all these things.” Regarding the former head of the Home Office of Sal. That's where they went further. Without seeing that he has no family for more than a year now, his former children are coming, serving, thinking about it, young children are being searched, and Burkovsky of Kiev is allowing himself to say that “you, the Donetsk gangs, voted for Yanukovic, and we will put you all in prison.” I'd like to say to the Minister: think about what your people are doing, it's the face of the Ukrainian militia. You'd be better off directing your views to Borislav, where there's no water for two months, where there'll be an event like that in Sudólsk, like in the Kivertsi district, where people will have to be held accountable. Look there, for where there is no water, there is death and health, not what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u118	Valentin Zubov, faction of Block Tymoshenko. To prepare Mary Marcus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u119	Valentin Zubov, Yulia Timoshenko Block, All-Ukrainian Association of Batkivščina. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios! Today, from this rostrum, I want to turn to all those who, day and night, in hunger and cold, in the freezing cold and in the rains of Independence, have defended their right to human life for themselves, their children and their many-suffering country. With deep sorrow, I must tell the participants in the orange revolution that the events of the last days, which have in direct terms shaken Ukraine. The only conclusion is that dear friends, our common hopes for the new President have not been met. President Yushchenko has failed to fulfil his communication with millions of Ukrainians in Majdan: to establish a new system of power based on morality, honesty, transparency and decency. He has betrayed our hopes for a new, civilized path for Ukraine's development. Let's remember the chronology. On Monday, associate Yushchenko, head of his electoral headquarters, Alexander Zinchenko, makes a sensational statement about total corruption in the President's environment. Note that corruption is not in the Government but in the context of the President. Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister Tomenko not only confirmed Zinchenko's statement but also significantly strengthened it. Specific names, posts, offices of the Prosecutor's Office and the BSS have been transferred to the Office of the Prosecutor. Under these circumstances, it would appear that the President would have to order immediately: to initiate an investigation by removing the figures during the investigation from duty. However, that is not the case. Rather, the main figures are holding press conferences, giving interviews, conducting a banal tender. As a result, the most unexpected and, frankly, the most stupid step in this situation of the President, is being taken by the Government of Yulia Timoshenko, who is only to blame for his unprecedented efforts under the leadership of Yulia Timoshenko to address the most complex social problems, to resign. Deeply convinced that this has been done for one purpose: to divert public attention from corruption in the immediate vicinity of the President by creating an artificial government crisis. Conclusion: We have a weak, unwitting President who is unable to make his own decisions, whose actions today, I stress, and today leads everyone's known immediate environment. In such circumstances, I declare that, as an active participant in the orange revolution from this point forward, as a man, as a politician, as a Ukrainian citizen, I see my main task only in all my actions to bring this President's removal from power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u120	Maria Marcus, Communist faction, to prepare Alexei, conveys the word Anisimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u121	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! More than seven months have passed since other individuals were at the control of Ukraine’s administration. As Yushchenko said, the face of power has changed, but the face of power has not changed at all. “The government with clean hands” actively participates in the partition of already looted property to pass on to others, even richer investors, to organize all kinds of difficulties that then successfully overcomes the wallets of ordinary people and creates various crises. The slogans “Wealth will share with the poor” in summer, the bandits will sit in jail, and now it becomes clear to everyone that they were needed only as a call phrase that should have led voters to the urns with a ready decision for whom to vote. In fact, in order to organize a showy investigation, no one is actually put in jail for serious criminals, only a lot of noise. All remember the sad decrees that were printed in the press and that the new president was to sign immediately, and ten steps to meet people. The first step is to create five million jobs and, in fact, 855,000 unemployed are officially registered in Ukraine as of July 5, 2005, and the unemployment rate is 40 percent. Step two, give priority to financing social programs. As of July 1, 2005, Ukraine’s wages amounted to about one and a half billion dollars. Food prices rose by 20 to 30 percent, heat tariffs by 10.5 percent, housing prices by 33 percent. And that's not all. Step three is to increase the budget by reducing taxes. The value added tax continues to be the main lever that drains money from our citizens' wallets beyond any economic law. Step four is to force the power to work for people, to fight corruption decisively. We have become an example of an unprecedented scandal in a government where nothing has changed, where the Secretary of State has observed unprecedented bribery and corruption in the higher echelons of power. Step five is to create safe conditions for people's lives. From the beginning of the year alone, the disease and social causes of the population of Ukraine have reduced by 209,000. Protect the value of the family, respect for parents, and the rights of children. From 5 to 8 million Ukrainians are forced to hump outside Ukraine, 12 thousand children have not sat down for parties in Ukraine. Another million men and women living outside the family are almost half of them already broken up and so on and so forth. I mean, none of those ten steps have been taken. To pursue foreign policy in the interests of the people. The policy of the National Socialist Government is aimed at a complete break-up of relations with the countries of SND, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan against the will and desire of the Ukrainians. Dear voters, make your conclusions. The only political force capable of getting the country out of this crisis is the Communist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u122	Thank you. Yes, Viacheslav Anisimov is speaking in place of Alexeieva. Loboda gives Chicanov the word to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u123	Anisimov, 30 constituency, town of Dneprodžinsk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich, respected radio listeners, are no longer a secret, that in the so-called socialist party there is one name left for socialism. Since the socialists reached power, their main activities have been the primitive charging of their own pockets with money belonging to the people. I have already spoken from the rostrum of the Supreme Council as the city of Dneprodžinsk was, in fact, destroyed by the city socialist organization, and a commercial structure has come into place. Today, we see these processes not only in the Dnepropetrov region but also throughout Ukraine. This suggests that the party, which calls itself socialist, has already become a bench for senior party officials. The so-called socialists were actively involved in the transfer of property stolen from the people. Despite attempts to obscure the obvious facts, the friendship of socialists with oligarchs is widely known. So he was with Mr. Lazarenko at the time, so now he's with Mr. Colomaysky. The slowness of the household fund in the so-called reprivatization is also understandable. After all, even the oligarchic rod with which the socialists are associated today is unable to quickly digest the fat pieces that they are pleasing to him. Nicopolski Ferrospoline and Krivorostal. The socialists and themselves do not forget, they have already created several commercial structures on the Krivorostala alone, which have up to $50 of each tonne of steel sold. Gentlemen of socialists are preparing for the so-called fair elections. We have a socialist in Dneprodj yinsk who chaired the District Electoral Commission, which in the presidential election made Yanukovic receive about 80 per cent of the vote. There was a direct bribery of the chairpersons and the members of the commission, and all of this took place with the direct participation of the Chairman of the District Commission. This is the kind of talent that the socialists have had for themselves, no doubt for the production of fair elections. Dear colleagues! In our eyes, a very good process is taking place as a ship's own, leaving high-ranking officials like the famous tailing animals. Gentlemen of socialists have chosen a different tactic, they are more loudly all to hold a thief, as if they are not in power today, and as if they are not responsible for the crisis in which the public car is being stormed today. Gentlemen, pseudosocialists, repent, repent of those whom you have betrayed once more, while they are still alive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u124	Unclean Sergei’s word is to be prepared?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u125	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. There is a city in Ukraine that has experienced many difficulties in its more than 220 years of history, military tests, several revolutions, changes in public order. He stood up, stood up, built up, and developed. This is the great Sevastopol in his folk heroism. It is difficult for him and his people in the new century to overcome deprivation, harassment, not respect and the use of the city's special situation for the political playgrounds of people whose understanding of the dignity and respect for the history of ancestors apparently did not come from childhood, but the mental development of the money they owe directly to them. I am forced to speak of this by the recent actions of the regime and the statement of individual colleagues on the MPs. It is not the first time this year that the issue of the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Sevastopol is being put into the public consciousness. Officials and politicians who date this issue periodically do not seem to understand such definitions as international treaties, inter-State relations, the rule of law, the rule of law and, ultimately, civilisation and the European standard for the State of which the current leaders, former rural accountants, are speaking to the place and place from television screens and when visiting European capitals. On one occasion, an invasion of the city began after the removal of the Zacional masters. In an attempt to hide the shame of the apparent sale of their policies, the authorities have in fact unleashed little guerrilla action aimed at creating tensions in the city and the fleet. In the course of the battles of the import students, the fleet's infrastructure, the operational storms of these facilities, the petty acquittals about the inclusion of water in the Russian fleet, so to speak, for the untimely payment, and tell me when Ukraine was on time paying for its contracts, it is doubtful. More vicious attempts to increase public service tariffs have been made for the residents of the city, who are already living in their homes during the winter. The President's veto for the multi-tempered City-Herore Sevastopol Act, which was promised by the same President by September, was the peak of this vakhanalia. Why is this happening? Why is there no desire to solve existing problems in a normal diplomatic way? Yes, because the Sevastopol coves need Americans to strengthen their positions in the Black Sea region. Three Sevastopol defenses coming up. From the defenses of their Government, the President, who are changing Ukraine's national interests and are on the path of destabilizing the South. I can assure anyone who intends to use the situation in Sevastopol and the fleet. You will not be able to earn political dividends and separate the people of Ukraine and Russia from Sevastopol. And I will tell the political robbers, the fleet and Sevastopol lived, and they shall live, but without you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u126	The word is the Holy One. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u127	Thank you. Mikhail Sithina, National Party, Lithuanian Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Dear voters! The Subcommittee I lead has a large number of referrals from doctors, pharmacists, and private citizens in response to the order of the minister of health since 1907.2005 at number 360, which introduces new prescriptions and leave of medical supplies and medical supplies in pharmacies. As a result of statements by Polish Health Minister Polishchuk, other Ministry officials in the media about the introduction of a special order of prescriptions and the release of medicines from pharmacies, many citizens have been apprehensive of the inability to obtain even the simplest medical treatments without prescriptions. These statements were essentially triggered by an unwarranted search for drugs in pharmacies. Citizens are deeply concerned about the difficulty of obtaining prescriptions because they know the lines in their clinics and often missing prescription forms. In society, there is actually sown and caused sadness. Against the backdrop of acute health problems that have not been solved for a long time, there was no objective need to create another problem. The Ministry of Health’s current order of 30.06.94, number 117, clearly stated these rules, is clear and clear. So why aren't they now? The minister’s loud statements remind him of his previous statements on how to order the prices of medicine. What, now you can say that the prices for drugs have dropped? On the contrary, they have grown. A new command prepared at a low professional level, a number of standards do not conform to each other. Some positions conflict with existing legislation. Let me give you an example. In case of an overdose in a single-dose prescription, the pharmacy is stamped “Spended” and the prescription is returned to the patient. It is easy to model the situation when the patient endures long hours before the doctor, and the patient makes a mistake. The pharmacy sends her back to the doctor. What, though, if the dose is too high for emergency medications, such as insulin, analgine in ampoules, or some heart medication? Let man die? It was previously made clear that in such cases, a wire was previously used on the telephone to identify such an incident with a doctor. And what's extremely important is that he had the right to release half a dose higher than once. It should be noted that many errors have been made in terminology and in the Latin names of medical devices. In other parts of the command, there are also many contradictions, mistakes, and inadequacies that can lead to fatal health and life - related accidents. I believe that the order should be complemented by the involvement of scientists and practitioners, prepared and approved in the new edition. I call on Prime Minister Yehanurov to take the necessary steps. And I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries with a professional holiday -- the day of a pharmaceutical worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Chubarov passes the word to Alexander Tkalenka. I can't see the bull. Rosicko's handing over to Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u129	Deputies! Dear voters! Today's theme, which was spoken by many deputies in the “Variance”, reminds me of the story of Kipling “Mowgli”. Remember when a famous character shouted: “Attila missed!” Let's still be more tolerant. Our nation is in a difficult situation today, so let us not build up what we already know. Deputies! Dear Adam Ivanovich! We often complain in our session room that there is often a formal attitude of central authorities toward parliamentary inquiries and appeals. I'd like to say that we don't have everything smoothly in the higher legislature. So I registered the 21st June draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to study the implementation of basic agreements on the status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine since 21 June 2006. [[Registration number 7696]] According to the procedure, the Regulatory Committee considered the issue, made its comments and identified the main consideration of the draft National Security and Defence Committee. I was working on a project and was placed in the registration sector according to the procedure. And on July 6th, the Head of the Supreme Council issued an appropriate resolution. It's been two months. But the service sector has so far not been able to transmit these documents to the National Security and Defence Committee. As a result, the last meeting of the committee did not even include the matter in the agenda. Although this question has an extremely serious weight. Today, as you know, with the aim of resolving the issue of the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, a joint decision by the Presidents of Ukraine and the Russian Federation has formed the Ukrainian-Russian Interstate Commission "Jushchenko-Putin" to resolve and address these issues. And the creation of the Supreme Council commission is certainly extremely relevant right now, because the price of the issue today is determined by a few billion dollars. I'll give you a few digits, for example. Today, the Tatnafta company, renting two docks in Sevastopol and a little more than a hectare of land, is paying into the budget, in the city budget of about a million dollars. At the same time, the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation rents 127 docks in Sevastopol, six in Feodosia, and along with the coastline and hydrographic sites, and so on, where the troops are stationed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u130	Thank you. I've already given the task of dealing with the facts. It's hard to believe. Well, they'll figure out what you said about not being sent to the committee. Please, Tommy, get Solomon ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The socio-economic situation in the Ukrainian village is extremely difficult. That's what your mouth is talking about today, that's what they're talking about in virtually every Ukrainian village. Prior to the eighth session of the Supreme Council, the Association of Farmers, Private Landowners in all regions held direct congregations of Ukrainian farmers and not only Ukrainian farmers but also peasants. As a result of this situation, Ukrainian farming offers 5 steps to stabilize the situation in the Agro-industry complex in the Ukrainian village. That's the first one. According to the grain and grain market law, it is urgent to settle the situation in the grain market, where the price of food wheat should be not less than 650 dollars. The other one. In line with the parliamentary hearings held in this room, settle the situation in the sugar market, where the purchase price for sugar should be no more. Not less than 220 bucks. Third. Today, it is essential for the Ministry of Finance to review the funding schedule of the Agro-industry complex programmes and to make adjustments for the acceleration of funding during September-June. Four. It is in the correction of the funding schedule that adjustments should be made in respect of the articles being financed. Agro-industrial complex. This is primarily direct support for a hectare of crops of winter wheat, which is a dangerous situation for the 2006 crop. Fifth. This is a partial compensation for fuel-oil materials, where prices are today disproportionate, and where this price situation, where there is a tendency to increase, not in agriculture, but in physical persons, is unable to see and harvest in 2005. With this situation, the Association of Farmers of Private Landowners refers to the Head of the Supreme Council, the executive responsibility of the Prime Minister to hold a meeting within a few days with the participation of the government, faction leaders and committees of the Supreme Council on the implementation of the same priority measures for the further development of the Agro-industry complex and the exit from the crisis, we propose to conduct in September Government Day, where it is clear how the Ukrainian village will develop in 2006 and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u132	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u133	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, many of the speakers refer either to the party of Lithuania or to the party of Frost, or to the party of Yushchenka. Once again, I reiterate, the Communist Party of Ukraine has a hundred-year lineage and is Lenin's party. Dear compatriots! I turn, first of all, to those of you who are writing to me, saying thank you for the principle of position, as a Soviet man and a Soviet communist, and a follower of the great Bolshevik-Lenish cohort. Such letters in my mail are one third only, unfortunately. I also express my gratitude to those who have harshly criticized or disagreed with the position of us Communists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Such letters are, unfortunately, two thirds of them today. “You will not take the people to the populace,” said the modern Ukrainian classic. I personally think that he is cruelly mistaken, just as our people are wrong. Not only a single person, even a group, or a political party, but also a nation, may be wrong. And there are many examples of this in history. We will only remember Christ, who bore faith to his people Israel, and the people cried out to him: “Osanna!” And then, when the ambassadors of the Roman prosecutor came and attracted this people with something, he shouted to Christ, who was led to Golgophe, “Smack him! ” When the political “briefs” lied to the entire Soviet people, including the people of Ukraine, at the All-Ukrainian referendum on December 1, 1991, our party, which was then banned, warned of all the possible means that it had about this mistake of our people. We have to pay for everything. We were 52 million — 47. Seven million of our fellow countrymen are moving in search of work abroad. Now the purchasing power of the average wage and pension is only half of what we had in the 91st year. Whether we've eaten our independence or not, we've eaten our market relations. I believe the people in the eyes are having an orange illusion. Workers, join us around the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Lenin Party, together we will send an antihuman, capitalist regime of Kravczuk, Kuchma, Yushchenka, and others to the wastebasket of history. Long live the Soviet authorities, the power of the workers, let socialism live. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-09-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, listen to the announcement, please. I am informing you about the creation of the People's Democratic Party faction and the political party “Trudova Ukraine” composed of 14 people's deputies. Headquarters, well, we don't have those positions, and I'm not gonna read, and the authorized representatives are the deputies of Desertac, Konovaluka, Demjochina, Jonya, Suprun and Swedenko. Yes, dear colleagues, next week we should be working with you on committees, factions and groups. I remind you that on September 13th, the morning session is held "On the state of implementation of legislation in the field of waste management in Ukraine and ways of improving it". At 3 p.m. parliamentary hearings will be held on "Contemporary state and prospects for land relations in Ukraine". It's a pretty important problem. I invite the deputies to take an active part in these hearings. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on September 20th. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
