ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:09]] There were 427 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, today the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputies, Budagyan Mikli Abramovich, was 70 years old. Let us welcome our colleague, and we wish him good health and success. [[Applause]] And also Polančich Mikhail Mikhailovich. Let us also welcome our colleague and wish us success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and paragraph 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the exit from the MP's Socialist Party of Ukraine, Igor Franchuk. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes to present authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, allow me to announce the questions that have come. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Oleg Gracheva to the President of Ukraine regarding the signed joint statement with President George Bush of the United States. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:01]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the President of Ukraine on a gross violation by individual officials of the executive authorities of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:37]] For 181 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:00]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Alexander PECLUCHENKA to the President of Ukraine for a crisis situation in the agricultural and industrial complex and its impact on the prices of strategic types of agriculture. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Request supported. [[10:06:33]] For 211 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:06:56]] For 257 Decision taken. JOURIA KOSTENKA and Valerija ASADČEVA to the President of Ukraine on urgent arrangements for the functioning and development of the National Museum of Architecture and Life. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:26]] For 199 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:47]] For 248 Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine regarding the granting of Ukrainian citizenship and security assurances to the native of the Cherkas region of Volodymyr Rezun. [[Victor Suvorov]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:18]] For 118 The decision is not taken. Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on provocations aimed at discrediting the opposition forces and biased attitude of the Ministry of Internal Affairs officials towards the head of the Donetsk District Council, the head of the Regional Party of the Ukraine's Boris Koleznikov and its supporters. [[STOPPING, CRONOVIL, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:57]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the violation of the rule of law when appointed by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Peter Poroshenko. [[COMAR, SLAUTA, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:25]] For-125 The decision is not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the non-compliance of the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine, separate provisions of the Presidential Decree “On the Approval of the Status of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine” and decrees on the appointment of Mikolia Catherineczuk as First Deputy, Revuna W.I., Operative G.M., Gorbanski B.M. Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration. [[SAMOFALOV, MAKEENKO, CRONOVIL]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:13]] For-125 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation at the Borispil State International Airport. [[HISTORY, STAY, AND OTHERS]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:40]] For 115 Request not supported. Groups of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the fact that Svetlana Gudkovy, a member of the Party of Regions, the Director of the Starobel City Building for Children's Creativity and Youth, was subjected to political pressure from the local prosecutor's office. [[KYRIČENKO, HARA and others]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:22]] For-161 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:11:44]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Vasil BARTKIVA to the Prime Minister for the construction of the gas pipeline in the village of Guriyev, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Victor OF THE DIVORCE to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the construction of the Babichivka-Red Army gas pipeline and the gasification of the villages of Vilha and Mala Tokarovka of the Romanov region of the Žitomir region. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of gas pipelines – the drains in the Velikobraznian and Tachiv regions of the Zakarpat region. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Prime Minister for compensation from the State Budget for the added value of the Eastern Mining and Enriching Unit. Ms Alexandre MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the support of the Poltava State Enterprise Znamija. Vassila BARTKIVA to the Prime Minister on the telephoneization of the village of Lipovice in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Igora SHAROVA to the Prime Minister on political persecution by the leadership of the Petrov Region State Administration of the Kirovograd Region of the Election Commissions. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister for the protest of the Shaka National Park collective of the Volin Region and its inhabitants against the appointment of the Director of the National Park of the former head of the District State Administration of Finda. Oleg PETROVA to the Prime Minister about the government's debt to the Budmeister construction company. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister for the annulment of Cabinet Order No. 1783 of 20 November 2003 on measures to improve the pension security of citizens. John TOMIĆA to the Prime Minister on the absence of allocations from the State Budget for financial support to farmers. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister for non-response to the MP's request for the status and prospects of the use of A1515 military property and infrastructure as a base for the storage of fuel-oil materials in the Velikiobagacan region. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister for inclusion in the 2005 State Budget for the financing of the construction of a secondary school in the village of Vronjaka Zoločov district of Lviv. Valentina MATWEJEVA to the Prime Minister on the gross violation by individual officials of the State authorities of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. YAROSLAV TO THE Prime Minister regarding the order of the acquisition and payment of pensions to the aviation fleet. Michael BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on abuses in the process of privatizing the Youth Food Union of the region of Czernovetsec. Vadima GUROVA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of production on the Iron Mine “Provrovroveva” in the city of Krivomí Rozí. Mr DEMOJINA to the Prime Minister on the official position of the Cabinet of Ministers on tariff policy in all areas of the national economy. KIORIAN to Prime Minister to create an effective system for the prevention and treatment of AIDS in Ukraine. Paul SILLY to the Prime Minister regarding the completion of the school in Jasenice-Silna, the home of John Frank. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the elimination of the consequences of the fire in Kamyanec-Podil City Archives. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the inadequacy of the price of solid fuel and the need for review of Cabinet Order No. 41 of 15 January 2005. Vassila NADRAGUA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work on the disposal of groundwater submerged areas of the Kamyanobrid district of Lugansk. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the prevention of a new environmental disaster in the construction of an industrial complex for the treatment of solid radioactive wastes of the Chernobyl AES. Vassila NADRAGA to the Prime Minister on the liquidation of the debt owed to the pensioners of the Ministry of Defence in the Luhansk region. Anatolia PALIGARY to the Prime Minister for the allocation of the K. Marks mine in the city of Jenakiyev for the purchase of compressor equipment. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Prime Minister for the development of the genealogies of magnetic quartzite in Guliapilsk, Novomikolyevsk, Pologovsk district of Zaporozhi region. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the formation of the price of the carbon unit and part of the quota of Ukraine, which can be separated without prejudice to the development of the industry and the economy of Ukraine in accordance with the commitments provided for in the Kyoto Protocol. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister regarding the construction of the trolleybus line of Kiev-Brovara. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of funds for the continuation of the construction of the district oncodipspanser in the city of Raven and the completion of the reconstruction of the military barracks under the therapeutic corps in the city of Sarna. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Prime Minister for the extension of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 674 of 02.12.92 for employees of the uranium production of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant. HOMUTINICA's Vitaly to the Prime Minister for the approval of the implementation of the Government Youth Support Programme 2004-2008. Victor ZAIČKO to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the “On Added Cost Tax” Act of article 6, paragraph 6.2.2, on the value added tax for services and repairs of ships. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of funds for the continuation of work with the restoration of the Holy Trinity Council in the city of Yagotin Kyiv district. Gennady ASTROVA-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister on the repayment of debts to teachers on payments provided for in article 57 of the Education Act. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the non-reorganization of the Ukrainian State Hydrometeorological Service. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister for unlawful fines for five times the amount of electricity used for more than a contractual amount for agricultural enterprises in Ukraine. John YVANCHO to the Prime Minister for the regulation of rail tariffs for the carriage of goods of the Beregian pearly career in the Zakarpat region. Vyacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of the car to the disabled of the Great Native War of Kasyan. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Prime Minister on the deliberate violation of the Ukrainian Advertising Act by the Tumen Oil Company. valentine SAVIC to the Prime Minister for receiving agricultural products from the Novograd Wallin region of the Žitomir Region funds provided by the State budget to partially compensate for the cost of complex agricultural production. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for the abuse of the service position of the previous management of the University in applying the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on tariffs and freight transport by rail. Anatoly OF ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General on the negative consequences of the reform of the “Ukraine” CSPs of the Goloprist region of the Hersson region and the illegal actions of officials of the newly established private enterprises regarding the rights of citizens. Vladimir JAVORISKI to the Prime Minister, head of the State Property Fund, to try to lead the National Coal Company of Ukraine to transfer the best coal layers of the Donetsk region to limited liability companies controlled by the criminal groups of Donetsk. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, to bring to justice the responsibility of the leaders of the Open Shareholders Association Poltawaz for the theft of state property and funds, the illegal activity during the election of the Supreme Council Deputy in June 2004 and the presidential election. [[QUICHAN, WAR, HUDIMA]] Vasil BARTKIV to the Prime Minister, head of the State Committee of Ukraine from the State Material Reserve on optimizing the purchase of imported meat and not allowing for significant loss of public funds due to imperfection and inadequacy of State standards and technical conditions to world standards. Vladimir ÍŠENKA and Alexia BABURIN to the First Deputy Prime Minister to address the socio-economic problems of the villages of the Armed Forces, Kalinjka of the Soloan district of Dnipropetrov. Vladimir ÄŠENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the appeal of the veterans of the Open Shareholders’ Association “Temp” to transfer the enterprise to the property of the State. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to Deputy Prime Minister Roman Immortal on the return of property to the performance of the Kirov District Council of the city of Kirovgrad of the premises. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities by the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, Atrochenko. Mr. Aleksandra KARENKA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the ban on the reconciliation of services and parliamentary activities by the Minister of Health, Polishchuk. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the ban on the reconciliation of office and parliamentary activities by the head of the Ternopil district administration of Stoyk. Mr Vojša to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities by the head of the Volin district administration Bondarem. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of the Minister of Education and Science of the Ministry of Education and Science. Mr. Alexander Kiselova to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of office and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Poltava District Administration of Bulbo. Mr. Vladimir MAZURENKA to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration of the Baloja State. Mr Vojša to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities by the Head of the district administration of Artemenkom. Mr. Alexander Kiselova to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the ban on the reconciliation of the service and the parliamentary activities of the Minister of Finance, Pinzenik. Valery BORZOVA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Johno-Frankow District Administration of Tkach. FIXA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Lviv District Authority of Olijnik. Mr. Nestor SHUFRICH to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Sevastopol City Administration of Ivanov. Anatolya LISTARENKA to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of service and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Žitomir District Administration of Žebrovski. The Minister-General, Prime Minister for the Elimination of Violations of the Requirements of Article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of office and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Odessa District Administration of Tsushkom. FIXA to the Attorney General, Prime Minister for the Elimination of Violations of the requirements of Article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in part of the prohibition on the reconciliation of office and parliamentary activities of the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Terioquinim. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General, Prime Minister, for the removal of violations of the requirements of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration of Yehanur. The Minister-General, Prime Minister for the Elimination of Violations of the Requirements of Article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of office and parliamentary activities by the Head of the Kyiv District Administration, Jovtak. Eugena LAPINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Environmental Protection for the violation of current legislation in the field of environmental use by a closed company called Titano-Apathic Company. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney-General for the elimination of violations of article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the prohibition of the reconciliation of official and parliamentary activities by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Dustenkom. PAUL QUICHANA to the Attorney General for investigating the implementation of coal echelon for the purpose of bribing voters by officials in the Karlovy Vulnerable region of Poltava. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Attorney General for the Legality of Construction in the City of Gadic of the Gas Condensate Processing Plant. SERGY RATIZNIKA to the Attorney General about the criminalization of the inaction of those responsible for the explosion that took place in a residential building in the town of Vynograd Zacarpatsk. Istwana HYDOSH to the Attorney General on customs, environmental and epidemiological legislation in the import of goods through the Chopper Customs. Stepan HMARI to the Attorney General for the groundless closure of a criminal case against a criminal group operating in the Kremenac district of Ternopil and for the involvement of district attorneys in the abuse of duty. Mr. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the gross violation of the rights and freedoms of employees of the Luhansk People's Republic of the Constitution of Ukraine, criminal and procedural legislation and the rights and freedoms of citizens. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Attorney General, Minister of Environmental Protection, on the verification of the legality of imports and the storage of foreign wastes of unknown poisons in the Mid-Bud district of Sumsk. JOHN PLUTE to the Attorney General, a minister of internal affairs on the rightfulness of taking possession of the premises of the city council and beating up the city’s head. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Education and Science, regarding the political pressure and forced writing of applications for exemption from the work of medical and educational personnel in the village of Deražne Kostopil region of the Plain region by the head of the Kostopilian regime, Jaroslav Bilik. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General on the examination of the facts set out in the address of the congregations of the closed association “Corostensk Farfor” on violations of labour law and the legality of the privatization of the enterprise. Katerina FOMENKO to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of officials of the financial administration of the Cerka district administration when removed from Maximov’s apartment. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General for improper review by the Prosecutor's Office of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of the violation of legislation when registering the release of shares of the closed stock company “Dopsok”. VALERIA LEBEDIOVSKO to the Attorney General for the improper investigation by the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev of a criminal case for the illegal involvement of senior officials of the Shevchenk district government office during the presidential elections. SLABENKA to the Attorney General for press reports of the illegal actions of individual officials of the trade unions in the Volinsk region. Leonidas ISAYEVA and Taras ČERNOVILA to the Attorney General on the criminal offence against President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine in connection with the bankruptcy of the Stock Exchange Agro-industry Bank “Ukraine”, the relevant statements made by the Minister of the Interior. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney-General on the verification of the facts set out in the address of the collective agricultural enterprise Agrofirma Kyivska on the deliberate conduct of the enterprise into bankruptcy through the corrupt actions of former managers of the enterprise, officials of local self-government and the Kyivo-Svetoshin District Court. Mr. Juriya CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of the Interior for the conduct of an illegal examination of Ukrainian citizenship, the election of a deputy and secretary of the Yagotin City Council of Russian citizen Chabanov. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General for forcing the employees of the residential and maintenance offices of Vinnici to take care of the city council during the working hours, requiring an increase in rent. Jury KARMAZIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General, the Minister of the Interior for the Abolition of the Decision on the Closure of the Criminal Case and the Criminal Responsibility of the Deputy Head of the Ternopil District Council of Kravec V.P., who worked as the head of the collective agricultural enterprise of the Javira agribusiness in an organized criminal group stole 5 million dollars from the state execution. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Legality of the Decision of the Winnitsk City Council of April 12, 2005 on the raising of rent. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service on provocations in order to discredit the representatives of the opposition forces and the biased attitude of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the head of the Donetsk District Council, the head of the Donetsk District Department of the Boris Koleznikov Region Party and its supporters. [[SAFIULLIN, CERNOVIL, AND OTHERS]] Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA and Mr. Taras CRONOVOL to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General to investigate the circumstances of the assassination and the life of the candidate to the Presidents of Ukraine, Victor Yashchenk, and the Deputy Head of the State Committee for the Religions of Mikola Malomazh. Mr Kostenka and Ms Valerija Asadcheva to the Head of the Security Service on the rightfulness of the actions of the employees of the Department of Security in the Vinicki region in the conduct of an examination of the activities of the Open Share Association “Terminal Factory” and inaction in the examination of the Ombudsman’s appeal. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney-General for the Investigation of the Offences of Officials of State Authorities. [[SAMOFALOV, MAKEENKO, CRONOVIL]] HOMUTINICA’S Vitaly to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights regarding the inadmissibility of interfaith conflict around the temple of the Holy Trinity in the village of Romanov. MICHAEL MELNIKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to determine the circumstances of the humiliation of service in the internal affairs of Glimbovicky. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for illegal activities by members of the District Department of Internal Affairs in the city of Novokrainka Kirovograd. Group of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Attorney General, on the investigation of the criminal activities of employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. [[SAMOFAL, MAKEENKO, AND OTHERS]] Stepan Cloud to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the provision of information on the status of the “Dynamo” physical and sports society. Katerina FOMENKO to the Minister of Education and Science on the delay in the implementation of the State Programme “School Bus”. John YVANCHO to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for delaying the search for the missing citizen, Michael Falesa, of the Provincial district of Zacarpathia. Oleg TGAGNIBOKA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the appeal to the official Poland for the immediate cessation of the anti-Ukrainian exhibition “East Ceilings Drowning in Polish Blood” as a brutal démarche of Polish chauvinists the day before and during the opening of the Year of Ukraine in Poland. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the law when appointed by the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Peter Poroshenko. [[COMAR, CORSACOV, SLAUTA]] Vladimir MATVIEVA to the Ministry of Health regarding the purchase of medical equipment for the district ophthalmology clinic. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Ministry of Health for nonprofessional treatment of his duties as physicians of the Poltava TB dispenser and the Mirgorod district hospital. Viacheslav KOVALJA to the Ministry of Health regarding the situation surrounding the reform of the medical sector in the city of Priluka in the Chernigiv region. MIKOLI RUDKOVSKI to the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, for the provision of health equipment for the city of Chernigova. Group of People's Deputies to the Head of the National Bank, Prime Minister, Attorney-General for the verification of the truthfulness of the information on the money issue carried out by the Government of V. Yanukovic. [[HARAH, COMAR, AND OTHERS]] Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the State Road Service regarding the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road in the city of Preyaslavi-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. Jaroslav KENDZORA to the Head of the National Television and Radio Board for the terrible ruse of national television and radio broadcasting. Leonidas GADJECK to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting, the General Prosecutor's Office on the violation by the National Council of Ukraine of television and the broadcasting of the rights of the television company “JETAR” to air. Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the gasification of the villages of the region of Cherniveck. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the establishment of premium tariffs for the transport of uranium from domestic production. Mr. Mikli Tomenka's Vice Prime Minister for the formal response of the First Deputy Minister of Health to the request for the introduction of tramadol to the list of preparations released for special prescription forms. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney-General for exceeding the service authority of the Lviv City Head and for violating the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine in connection with the establishment of pensions for members of the UPA fighting activities. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General for the criminal offence against election forgers in election district No. 165 of Suma. Boris SLEEP to the Attorney General on the violation of the rights and interests of the joint owners of the Obolon-6 apartment buildings. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the rightfulness of arrest and investigation of the situation of further criminal action against the resident of the town of Ostrig, in the province of Oleg Basilishin. Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the verification of fraud with apartments in Kiev. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Health for the inefficiency of the examination of illegal beatings from patients in the Hersonian District Hospital through the so - called Yurženka Charity Fund, the failure to provide medical care to the sick, and the obstruction of the activities of the National Deputy for the Ministry of Health of Hanenkom. Alexia LELJAK to the Attorney General on the persecution of employees of the Open Shareholders Association Poltawaz. Jury SOLOMATANA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, regarding the inaction of law enforcement and environmental authorities with regard to the cessation of unsanctioned amber production in the Plains region. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General regarding the actions of the Deputy Minister of Transport and Liaison, Leonid Netudihati, which contain signs of crime. [[LUKYANKA, MATVIENKO, KOREZ]] Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the State Property Fund, on the violation of the rights of the labour force, on the inaction of the prosecutor's organs and on the non-performance of investment obligations during the privatisation of the Czernigiv Stock Exchange experimental plant “EXCOM”. MICHAEL VOLINZA to the Attorney General on unlawful interference in the activities of the Free Trade Union of the National Film Studio of the name Length “The Turn of Truth”. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for Political Disposal, led by the Provincial Regional Administration of the Provincial Electoral Commission No. 168 of Electoral District No. 104. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVSKO to the Attorney General for an unsatisfactory answer to a question regarding the negative situation at the State Defence Ministry of Ukraine’s “Kremenec Career Management Quartz”. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for Information Review on the Collection and Further Use of the Funds by the Head of the Electoral Headquarters of the President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenka in the Mosty Region of Lviv Region by John Davidjak during the third round of the election of the President of Ukraine. Mr. Michael POLANCHIĆA to the Attorney General on the legality of the actions of the law enforcement agencies of the Crimson City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Minister of Finance for increasing funding for the purchase of fire and special equipment for the Department of Emergency Affairs. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Secretary of Defense about the state of affairs concerning the transfer of military towns to municipal property. Vladimir PETRENCA to the Minister of Defense for the promotion of a medical examination of a disabled Armed Forces resident in Suma. VICTOR OF DIVORCE to the Minister of Health regarding the provision of hearing aids for disabled persons living in the territory of the Zitomir region. Ms. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Minister of Health regarding the rehabilitation of the hospital in the village of Zagatí, in the district of Zakarpatá. Oleg BILORUS to Minister of Interior, Head of the Security Service, Attorney-General for the Investigation of Crimes by Law Enforcement Authorities against employees of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine “Solidarity” and the family of Pivovarov. Victor CAPUSTIN to the Minister of Internal Affairs, acting as Prosecutor of Kyiv-Svetoshin district of Kiev, in connection with the investigation of the road accident, which took place on 17 March 2005 in the city of Vishneve. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the foreign minister for financial losses in connection with the Ukrainian President’s plans to cancel travel visas to Ukraine. Mikhail DOBKINA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics for blocking the work of the state agrarian and commercial enterprise “Radgosp-Profession “Mukacijski”. Anatolya KUKOBI to Minister for Emergency Situations in Acquisition of Special Fire Technology for Poltava’s Units Mr. Alexander CRONOVOLENKA to the Minister of Justice, Minister of Interior, Head of the State Tax Administration for the Enforcement of Judgments, the failure of the Courts of the Hersonian Region by the Deputy Hersonian City Council of Lukyanek, the investigation of criminal cases committed by the fraud of officials of the firm “Biologist”. Alexander MASSENKA to the Minister of Defense regarding the personal admission of a former military officer, a reserve colonel, a resident of the city of Poltava. Michael Kosiva to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist in the search for Klimczuk’s burial site, which died in 1945 in Poland. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Justice regarding the failure to execute the decision of the Galician District Court in Lviv. YOURIA BOYKA to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the problem of feeding students and repairing the roof of the Barish district’s Barish district’s Barish public education school. Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the purpose of examining the criminal acts of the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, as a follow-up to the methods of “Qummism” in the new government. Igora SHAROVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation by the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area of the Ukrainian "Pro corruption" Act. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy for the benefit of the pensioners of the village of Kozyrk Oczaków district of Mikolaiiv region when gasification was carried out. Sergei MATWEIENKOVA to the Minister for Emergency Situations regarding the critical situation in the market of fire extinguishers for domestic production. Leonida GRAČ to the head of the Constitutional Court for failure to comply with the decisions and conclusions of the Constitutional Court on the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crime as of 16 January 2003. Alexander KEMENYASA to the head of the State Property Fund for the determination of the position of the Fund in relation to the privatization of the property complex of the former open stock company, Kiev’s “Electric” plant. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Market for the conduct of a review of the process of reorganizing the inter-compartmental sanatorium “Department” in the Vinnitsky region. BORISS OF THE State Tax Administration regarding the illegal actions of officials of the State Tax Administration in Zaporozhye. Oleg BILORUS to the head of the Supreme Court to ensure that the case of a citizen of Sidorenka is tried. LeonidaS CERNOVECH to the city of Kiev on the problems of decorating the village of Bortnić. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the head of the State Property Fund, Attorney General for the Protection of the Rights of Shareholders of the Closed Shareholders Associations “Lvivski Mesocombinat”, “Lvivska Air Conditioning Factory “Svetoch”, “Terg-Services-Ukraine”, the legality of privatization and the sale of these enterprises. Mr. Leonida GRAČ to the Head of the Constitutional Court for failure to comply with the decisions and conclusions of the Constitutional Court regarding the compatibility of the positions of the rural, rural, urban head with the mandate of the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on 20 May 2004. Mr. Vladimir LÄCHENKA to the Head of the State Judicial Administration on the system of payment for the work of the officers of the courts. Mr. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Czernigian district government regarding the reform of the housing and utility system of the city of Priluka. Petra TLOČKA to the prosecutor of the Chernig region for the arbitrary conduct of search and land-related work in violation of the cultural layer in the memory of archaeology — the settlement of the X - 13th century of the Stygenka district of Chernigiv region and the violation of legislation on the protection of an archaeological heritage. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for a conflict situation around the central market of the city of Pritika. valentine SAVIC to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the allocation of funds for the implementation of land-supply measures in accordance with the State’s “Integral Improvement of Grounds” programme in Novograd Wallinsk and Olevsk region of the Žitomir region. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Ministry of Health regarding the implementation of citizens’ constitutional rights for quality medical care in the Hersonian region. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Emergency Situations for the Recognition of the Resident of the City of Six as a Participant in the Elimination of the Chernobyl AES Accident. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Defence for the implementation of a comprehensive programme for the housing of military personnel, including those released from the reserve or resignation and their families until 2009, without any additional funds from the Ukraine budget. Vladimir NOVACA to the Minister of Justice on the clarification of article 72 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005 concerning the payment of municipal services to members of the family of veterans of the military service. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to bring the Ministry's decisions into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection. Paul MATVIENKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure the implementation of article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, concerning the increase in salaries and payments to medical personnel employed in the provision of medical care to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the possibility of constructing and operating new energy clouds at the Charitable TES. Michaela Kosova to the Minister of Education and Science in support of the state-wide education and information network science and technology project. JOURIA ARTEMENKA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the calculation of pensions for the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. SERGEANT SERGEANT TO THE Minister of Education and Science on the ground of misappropriation of the scientific title of the Rector of the Mučaków Humanities and Pedagogical Institute of Rosul. Paul MATWEIENKA to the Minister of Transport and the relationship with regard to compensation for expenses lost in connection with the establishment of State aid in the taxation of transport equipment owners in the city of Korstoń, U.S.A. Vladimir DEMOCHINE to the head of the State Customs Service for the provision of information and statistics on export-import operations with goods from 1 to 24 groups and the state of compliance with legislation in carrying out these operations. Igora NASALICA to the head of the General Audit Authority on the abuse and purposeless use of urban budget funds in the municipal sphere of the city of Kallus Ivano-Frankiv region. Groups of national deputies to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the financing of the treatment of patients with multiple sclerosis. [[NON - CHILDING, DEMOHINE, HOLIDAY]] Vassila BARTKIVA to the head of the Suma District State Administration regarding the violation of the rights of teaching workers in connection with the impossibility of privatizing housing by teachers of a town hall such as Yellow Bilopopolis. Groups of national deputies to the head of the Dnipropetrov district administration, the Dnipropetrov City Head for the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage, the memorial garden of the Kosač family in Dnipropetrovsk. [[GRIGOROVIC, CATERINCHUK, ASADEV, AND OTHERS]] Andrija POLIETA to the head of Odessa’s district government regarding the abuse of the authority of the city of Odessa over the light of the memory of those who died during the Great Homeland War. Leonidas KRAVČUKA and Igor ŠURMI and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Health of Ukraine, on changing the time limit for boarding, creating the right conditions for the training of highly qualified medical professionals and replacing the order of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine No. 81 of February 23, 2005. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General, Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, on the payment of debts on wages and on the addition of mines to the Solotvinian minekeeper of the Zakarpatsk region, on the elimination of discrimination in the size of the wages of miners and on the cessation of abuse by the administration of the mine. Mr. Jaroslav KENJORA and Mr. Dawimuki to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the possible involvement of ex-Prime Minister Yanukovic, ex-Prime Minister of Tobacco and ex-Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine, Tolstouchov, in the theft of the Central State Historical Archive of the city of Lviv. Michael RADIO to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation and the results of the privatization of municipal property in Poltava. Sergey ŽIZKA to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the establishment of victims of political repression killed in the NCDVD 2 prison in Curtkova Ternopil district during 1709. 1939 - 5.07.1941 Oleg TJAGNIBOKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office and falsification, the official basis for the decision of the Brodov District Council of the Lviv Region by the head of the Brodov District Council of Kotishin. Thus, honourable colleagues, 194 parliamentary inquiries have been made. The factions. Our Ukraine - 34, Communist - 40, Ukraine - 29, Ukrainian Social Democratic Party - 21, Ukraine - 4, People's Party - 5, Ukraine's Socialist Party - 15, Timoshenko - 6, Union - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, Democratic Ukraine - 7, non-fractional - 14. [[united]] Dear colleagues, we have spent 50 minutes asking MPs. Now let's move on to speeches from authorized MP groups and factions with applications, information, messages and queries. Vladimir Plutinski of the People’s Party is invited to the presentation. Stepan Gavrish will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u2	Vladimir Plutinski, People’s Party Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! In the bread the truth is, in its abundance is the power of man and of the state. During his 54 years in the village, there was a lot of judgment, and there were times when bread was an epigraph of party politics. But even in a dream, he could not have imagined that I would live until a Ukrainian peasant was placed in conditions that would make him not sow bread. Unfortunately, it's cruel, but it's reality. Durum wheat has already been refused to grow on the taurian black soils, which are made of macaroni, has not been sown in central areas since this spring. And the same reason is the priced “screw”. Today, the tannery, the minabreva, the herbicides cost so much that any economic sense of farming is lost. Today, tons of diesel are more expensive than tons of selected grains, at least five times the cost of wheat. It's a similar painting with minions. But even at such an excessively high price, you will not find them. The paradox, on the edge of the field, which belongs to the "Zorya" agro-firm, which is on the Plains, is the housing of the "Early Nitrogen" production unit, but the minabrál is impossible to take, everything goes abroad. Who will answer for the fact that Ukraine, with six powerful chemicals, will run out of fertilizer? It's a total drawback. did not allow the time to feed the weakened osmium. So far, the backlog of mineral fertilizers is about 40% up to what's claimed for spring-field jobs, and plant protection is only half. So can we expect high yields? The next, equally important problem for farmers is the supply of fuel-oil materials. During the first quarter of the country’s diesel plant, the farm was set to a quarter less than last year. Out of 600,000 tonnes of positive fuels planned by the Government, only 15% were shipped to the peasants at the beginning of April. At which point the $2,400 price agreement is not valid. In no region. It's the same thing with loans, with credit resources. 17% of the loans for many peasants this spring have become just a fairy tale, you can't get them in any of the banks, but you can't afford them. Now, look, the way it used to be is that every farmer in the world used to store resources that went to do spring-field jobs. In many cases, it was sold by spring for grain or livestock. But try to do it now. The grain today is. There's nothing wrong with the corn's summer seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u3	Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, from the Democratic Initiative MP group, is invited to prepare Alexia Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, despite the dramatic changes that have taken place in the era, we leave the social standards of the development of Ukrainian society, the problems of rights and freedoms and the free entrepreneurial initiative at last. which is intended to ensure that Ukrainians move to Europe and build new social standards of life in this country. It seems that between the first and the second, that is, between the social standards of life and the free enterprise initiative of citizens that creates not only jobs, but also the budget, in fact, of today's Europe, we have a new conflict. Attempting to move away from the exemplary positions of the textbook Adam Smith and to begin to manage the Ukrainian economy manually again became new Ukrainian rakes, which unfortunately hit. an iron head that can't hear a thing. According to the State Budget, which was held in this Parliament, which I also enthusiastically supported, led to Ukraine’s small enterprise being at the brink of another historic risk. If in Europe, it actually feeds Europe, accounting for 99 percent of the total production of Europe, and giving almost 70 percent of the gross product, two thirds of the added value, accounting for almost 70 to 80 percent of the citizens in jobs, we could lose those modest 2.5 percent or maybe 5 million jobs in small businesses. It was the practice to produce further legal nihilism, to renounce the main constitutional principles, to ensure democracy through legal standards that led Ukraine, according to the 2005 State Budget, to introduce new non-fiscals, but in fact to say so, not legal and anti-market mechanisms for removing small-scale entrepreneurship taxes for added value, by changing its own rules of the game, which were initiated by the same reformers in 1998, when they introduced the only tax. And that's when the leading Ukrainian economists Teryochin and Pinzenic proposed this single tax, and now they've offered to reverse this policy by introducing it. Mechanisms. Small business is a hope for Ukraine not only in economic terms but also in the sense of building democracy, because it creates the only middle class. Without the middle class, Ukraine will not be able to live without rights and freedoms. The very small enterprise, forming a middle class, can be the cornerstone of Ukraine’s development as a European state. Today, at 13 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Public Expert Council, where I invite you, precisely of these problems, in the 12 audiences of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I missed another MP's request. This is Victor Terrence speaking to the Head of Kiev about the organization of the roads in Kiev. I made a statement. Please, Alexy Korsakov from the faction of "Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Prepare Georgie Büyke.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens. Ukraine faction, 50 constituency, Alexy Korsakov. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction, in which it is forced to draw the public's attention to the liberation of the law enforcement agencies that are ordering a new authority to seek out enemies of the people among those who have dared in the previous election of Heads of State to support not the current President, but the other candidate. We express deep concern over the cynical use of the power of power to seek compromise in the context of the new political situation, the intimidation of the leader of today’s opposition and their sympathizers. Events and personnel are changing, but the story of the unfolded tragic exhibition remains the same. An object, an enterprise, is chosen, as if connected in some way to the election campaign on the side of the candidate for President Yanukovic of Ukraine. And the muscle, when it's ordered for press and intimidation, it's all about knowledge and skill. Sometimes with the crown number of the mask show, the exit of the Special Forces in masks and vests. So last week, VAT "Poltavgas" entered the list of untrustworthy companies, which, among other things, entered 100 of the best businesses in Ukraine in 2004, certified by the Honorary Diploma of the National Leaders of the 21st Century Program, which operates at the International Association of Business Circles. In punishment for the fact that the Ukrainian National Deputy, a member of the faction of the Region, the head of the Poltavgaz District Department of the Region, Alexy Laluk, was in charge of the election to the Parliament of the Watt "Poltavgaz" and is now accepting that an office in the premises of this enterprise is being rented to the electorate. The procurator of the Kyiv district of Poltava has been charged with criminal acts against this shareholder society. Today’s management of the company has been cremated by the fictitious abuse of a position of service. The rapists openly, boldly acted on the above scenario and even without any permission entered the office of the Ukrainian national deputy without noticing the relevant table on the door. In this context, it is not surprising that all the workers of the Constantinen Confederate Factory today are called to questioning, and the employees of the UBZ have removed the documents of this company, one of the shareholders of which is the head of the Donetsk District Department of the Kolesnikov Party, the first political prisoner of the new government. [[Kiev-Conti, Donetsk Region]] In addition, the ruling on the removal of Kiev-Conti documents was made with a clear violation of criminal and procedural legislation. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" expresses outrage at the use of force structures for the persecution and intimidation of opposition representatives and requires immediate investigation into the illegal actions of law enforcement officials who carry out political acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u7	George Buiko is invited from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Lilia Grigorovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u8	George Boiko, Communist faction, the U.S. Intelligence for Socialism. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! It is closer to the ninth of May, which is approved as a national holiday in our country. Most of our citizens are preparing to mark the historic significance of the 60th anniversary of victory over the fascist-German invaders and their textbooks as such a historic event that has had a decisive impact on the entire course of World War II. With this in mind, the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization, the All-U.S. Intelligence for Socialism, the Communist faction is preparing to hold a scientific and practical conference on 27 April on our victory. By the way, Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov is one of the main reporters at the conference. The conference is scheduled to be held on the basis of the National Museum of History of the Great Homeland War for 41-45 years, that is, the institution to which the State has entrusted the necessary scientific and propaganda work for this purpose. All necessary arrangements by the organizers of the conference in my person and colleague Rodionov with the director of the Artomov Museum and the Ministry of Culture and Art have been made accordingly. But someone doesn't like the truth of history. Thus, a sudden refusal by the Director - General of the museum to hold a conference occurs, and the ministry takes a languid stand, even though participants from all areas are already preparing to attend. In this regard, I appeal to Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine, Volodymyrovny, to give a proper assessment to officials who interrupt the conference and provide assistance in accordance with the law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great War of 41-45 years, to hold an appropriate conference for the organizers. I also address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, by the way. You are a member of the Museum's Supervisory Board, overseeing the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council decree of March 15 on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the definition of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great War 41-45 years. Let's lead the state policy on the basis of existing legislation, not politics, the slogan of our people, "Nobody forgets and nothing forgets!" Please include my statement as a question to Prime Minister Timoshenko and the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u9	Yes, thank you. Lilia Grigorovitch from the faction "Our Ukraine" will be invited to the presentation, and Oleg Bielorus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u10	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. The "Our Ukraine" faction is forced to make a statement to protect the humiliated, depraved Ukrainian citizens of Donbas. Recently, this society has witnessed the efforts of the authorities to protect themselves with the help of the people of Donbas. What's the point of one powerful man who said to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, "We're going to get as much biomass in Kiev as we need." This is about you, Donbas. So I'm going to go Russian. The faction "Our Ukraine " respects Donbass, and at this time in the square, the central square of Donetsk stood the exuberant old men and driven young people with posters: "We must respect Donetsk". Donetsk, the faction of "Our Ukraine" respects you, respects you and power. But we, with respect for the land of Stahanov, Beregovov, Stus, Duba and Vadim Pisarev, cannot in any way respect the fact that working people are trying to use criminal "brothers" and "freaks". Donetsk, if you respect yourself, you know that AIDS and tuberculosis are the highest in your region. Donbass, do you know that within 10 years, in one third of the concentration, the population will shrink twice as a result of the AIDS epidemic? Do you know, Donbass employee, that in 2004, ship claims for payback were executed throughout Ukraine in 24 per cent and in the Donetsk region in only 12 per cent? It's all on the conscience of the authority that uses you as cannon meat, like biomass, and that you seem to be protecting. Working Donbass, the faction of our Ukraine not only respects you, but also sympathizes with you. I must note that the President of Ukraine, coming to meet people, including you, the Donbass employee, will raise wages by 57 per cent by the end of this year. This will not only raise the honor and dignity of every working man in Donbass but also protect everyone from crime. The people who came to the Presidential Administration were looking for the truth. Why didn't you, the Donbass employee, with the "We have to respect Donbass" sign to protect the murdered Masha Mikitina, who was crushed a few years ago by the Donbass Labour Union? It could have happened to anyone. Donbass, you didn't say a word. Therefore, with respect to you, the faction of "Our Ukraine" calls, labor Donbass: start to respect yourself, begin with everyone, rise up in your soul against crime. Laboury Donbass, "Our Ukraine" with you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u11	Oleg Belarus, head of the MP’s Timoshenko Block, is invited to the presentation. John Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u12	I'm going to be a national language. Dear Head, national MPs, respected citizens! Today, the whole world, Europe and mankind from Canada to China, look forward to Ukraine as a potential center for new progressive development. But recent developments in political events in Ukraine show that there are great problems, hardships, and threats alongside our achievements. The anti-nationalist forces have launched a large-scale border-based campaign aimed at undermining the results of the Ukrainian Democratic Revolution and preserving the old system, the old clan-oligarchy regime. The government of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who received national support and support for Parliament, is subject to mass bombing. Using the approach of the parliamentary electoral campaign and the false slogans of opposition, these forces are doing everything they can to destabilize the economy, the oppression of political hysteria, they are hampering the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers at the direction of order in the economy, trade, customs, on borders, in the system of government. Ukrainian citizens see that the old clans, under the form of opposition, undermine the economic security of the state, the welfare of citizens. The artificial rise in oil prices is a collective of monopolists who, under the Kuchma regime, have been hit by Ukrainian oil-processing devices. By overthrowing the sower’s campaign, stripping off agricultural fertilizers, they want to put the entire nation of Ukraine to their knees. It won't work, gentlemen, it's not the time. There will not be an hysterical campaign that is now being launched in parliament by the bankrupt political forces, who have lost the trust of the people and play a map of the defenders. The rule of law is the only justice for all citizens. Ukrainian citizens demand a fair trial of criminals who have been looting the country for years. We urge all the patriots of Ukraine to gather around the People’s President Yushchenk and the government of Timoshenko, the government of the people’s trust. We believe that no economic hardships, no threats, will stop our people from moving to sovereignty, greatness, good.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u13	Ivan Sidorovich Boki is invited to speak from the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. to prepare Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u14	I would like to read instead of the faction's statement one of the voters' statements from a question that's been repeatedly raised here, but which we haven't come close to. The resident of the village of Popovka in the Poltava region of the Poltava region of Catherine Grigorovna Stampel, responding to a statement by the Socialist Party faction about the tax collector. "I want to complement what is happening in the village with the adoption of the Supreme Council of barbaric law for poor peasants. On July 5, 2004, a soldier’s widow died, our mother, and my brother and I, from January 5, 5 years ago, decided to form an inheritance for a piece of land that we had paid for two years to make a national act and by the end of 2004 we had drawn lots of lots where our pie would be. So the tax rate for 3 hectares of 98 hundred pies has to be paid, according to the county's monetary estimate of 4,000 and 65 dollars and more for the land under the garden and for the house -- over 5,000 dollars. Deputies! Go down from heaven to the sinful earth and lift this terrible bandit law for the peasants, or take into account the payment of our savings, which we will never see. Where do we, pensioners, take that kind of money to pay the tax? The old men in the village are dying, and their land rations will grow with weeds, or uncles with money will rent, for the inheritance of neither children nor any living parent for the production of the acts has long been paid. The Balasin Village Council has 3 villages. And more than 37 houses stand empty, or their heirs, because their heirs can't build these gardens with a house, and no pies, because it's all worth more than 10,000 dollars since the fifth year. I want to ask the National Deputies: what was the purpose of the Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax from Natural Persons at number 889 from year 5, since year 3? I think MPs, people, peasants, MPs about the people of peasants don't understand or know how a peasant lives. It's to drive a peasant into a chasm from which it's impossible to get out. Kuchmew’s reforms destroyed the village’s birds, shepherds, and pigs. And the deputies began to destroy the villagers and their dwellings by unwarranted and unwarranted laws. You know, for this year, we've been told to reject the operation of this law. But for the coming years, the government doesn't want anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u15	Anatoly Rahansky is invited to speak from the Democratic Ukraine MP group, to prepare Vadim Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u16	Thank you. The appeal of the Democratic Ukraine MP group, there from the factional union of the Black peoples of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, 26 marks the 19th anniversary of the planetary disaster that took place at the Chernobyl nuclear station. The elimination of its effects today is a source of great concern for the future of Ukraine, Europe, and the whole world. During this time, a number of work has been done by the State and the world society to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The consequences of the accident had a negative impact on the environmental, socio-economic, demographic situation in Ukraine. It is a real threat to the development of the gene pool of the Ukrainian people and the national security of Ukraine. Since 1999, more than 600,000 people have been killed by the Chernobyl disaster. In addition, there are over 2.5 million people living in Ukraine who suffer the consequences of social protection. The UN has identified Chernobyl as a global issue. Despite the measures taken to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, environmental and radiation security in Ukraine remains dangerous and in some places catastrophic. Yes, built in 1986 in extreme conditions, the "Hidden" facility over the fourth reactor, which contains about 200 tons of nuclear fuel, dust, is in an emergency state that poses a threat to a new nuclear explosion. A significant reduction in the danger of the Hidden object could be achieved as a result of the construction of a new protection facility. But its anticipated construction in 2001 did not begin until now, although more than $200 million has been spent on this purpose. Ukraine's nuclear security is also threatened by the three-year delay in the entry into force of Warehouse No. 2 for sent-off nuclear fuel, which prevents the fuel from being released from the overloaded warehouse number one, which contains nuclear fuel with a total activity of about 1 billion Curie. Such a condition on Warehouse 1 could lead to a new unprecedented nuclear accident. The threats listed are the result of disagreements between public authorities, the absence of a single authority to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the failure to comply with current legislation on these issues. In relation to the above, we feel that it is necessary. First. To restore the Ministry of Disaster Management. The other one. Consider, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Security Council of Ukraine, the critical state of affairs in dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The address is supported by scientists at the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u17	Thank you. Vadim Gurov is invited from the "One Ukraine" faction. Next is Michaela Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u18	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, colleagues. Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. The solution that I have been trying to resolve for the past two years is a classic example, and I would say a training tool for those who have words that differ with the case. The essence of the question. In Krivbass, a decision of 2.03.1998 by the Cabinet of Ministers decided to transfer the Gigant Mines, Preshrotrava to hydroprotection, as well as the closure of the Saxagan and Kirov mines. Where did the funding come from? Of course it's the budget. Thus, every year the country's budget has a separate line of funding for this worrying economy. That poor money's enough for the workers to pay. Gradually, these objects become dying swans. After all, I managed to stand by and suspend the closure of the "Artem" mine of the Kirov Red Government and pass it on to the "Criminals". Now, I'm not afraid of that word, it's a flourishing and better facility of Krivbass. And here's First-Maj and Giant with two billion tons of magnetic quartz, think about it. Two billion tons lie unnecessary. At that time, many are trying to open new deposits. I believe that there is money, investment, and, of course, Ukraine is not to be conquered at this time. They must work in a different direction. Who wanted to take the first one and rebuild the First Mother mine? That's two years ago, Poltavski Gok. At present, there are several applicants. This is both the Poltava GoK and the Metallurgical Combined Ilicha and the North Mountain Enrichment. What prevents us from doing something useful? I want to tell you. Months went by, years changed, ministers, leaders changed, but all that matter remained the same. What did I accomplish? Only it could be that he's got the resonances of the sound. Now I've told you who wants to take part in this tender. The main thing, as they say now, is to be honest, open and fair. And I think it should happen soon. In two years, I made four parliamentary requests, three letters to the Cabinet of Ministers. The result is as long as this problem is still in place. It seems to me that this is my last statement on this issue, because our budget needs very much money. Dear Yulia Vladimirovna, there's a lot of money buried in the First-Major mine, take it and fill the budget. I look forward to your public approach, determination and speed. Your MP's request is in order of ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u19	Yes, Michaelo Ratushny of the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party is invited to the presentation. Igor Šurm will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u20	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. Last year, Ukraine was hit by events that rocked the world. Citizens who were fed up with the lies of power, abuse, bribery, political persecution, murder, and forging elections came to Midan. It seemed that Maidan should be a good lesson for the leaders of both the state and the capital. But what a disappointment the Chinese received after the orange revolution in Kiev’s first election of 60 constituencies! The Kyiv city authorities used the entire arsenal of the old regime to ensure the victory of the clan group. Regardless of that, the coalition's representative, "The power of the people!", a member of the Ukrainian People's Party, Peter Golovatenko, having held five court sessions in the Podil region on March 27, won the victory over the clan of the Kiev authorities. After losing, the city’s Kiev authorities did not settle down. The pressure on TVC is considered to be invalid. Four times the Shevchenkovsky District Court confirms the victory of Golovatenko in the 60th constituency of Kiev. But despite this, TVC, breaking the law, is doing everything possible to reverse the election results. So we call on the Attorney General to intervene immediately in the 60th constituency situation and to bring to justice the members of the District Electoral Commission for a cynical violation of the law. We call on President Victor Yushchenk of Ukraine: Cleanse the executive power in Kiev from the colored corrupts. We turn to Kiev’s leadership: get back! In its time, the democratic forces of the capital as a whole and the Ukrainian People's Party in particular supported Alexander Omelchenk in the fight against the representative of the oligarchy, but this does not mean that the Chinese gave the capital leadership eternal indulgence to abuse of land under construction, the thoughtless destruction of the historic part of Kiev, the embezzlement of protected lands in Vodice, Vosei and Phoophania, the ignoring of China's interests in Obolon, Darnica and Troischen. The Chinese did not give the right to grossly violate their right to elect local authority by falsifying elections in the best traditions of Kuchma and Yanuković. We will not allow Kyiv to remain in the heart of the orange Ukraine as a preserve of the Qusmism era. If the interests of the capital’s people continue to be ignored, the Ukrainian People’s Party, along with other democratic forces of Kiev, will call the Chinese to the new court against the vagaries of the capital mayors. And then the first spike in the tent in the newly paved Hristtica will be the beginning of the purely Kiev field and the last nail in the home of corruption and bushmism in our capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u21	This is how Igor Shurma is invited from the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Prepare Michael Kosiwa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u22	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] We are concerned about the health - care situation. Undoubtedly, the least perfect in the legislative and regulatory field needs profound changes. The development or reform of health care, which should be discussed and approved by the College of the Ministry of Health at the Cabinet of Ministers, was a logical step for the new government. The Faction SDPU(o) clearly supports all government and ministry innovations, provided they are implemented within the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, which will certainly benefit both the patient and the medical and medical staff. Unfortunately, we don't see, at least on the part of the Ministry's leadership, systematic efforts and actions. Having a sincere desire, the minister of health endeavors to bring about a personnel revolution in the health system. We warn against the negative consequences that can result from one - person orders of 81,31,098. Their implementation not only violates the human right to work, the freedom to choose a profession, but also includes articles 19, 22, 43 of the Constitution, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the current orders of the Ministry of Health. In order to provide personnel, young professionals should not be banned. This can be balanced by the system itself, by the training of medical personnel, by the provision of medical care, including specialized care, since after the approval of the list of specialities and courses in the field of education, there will be a reduction in the number of faculty members working in colleges and, as a result, a reduction in the position of doctors in health institutions. We are convinced that the increase in the number of doctors in general health practices in the nation does not increase. The adoption of a series of anticonstitutional orders is, in our view, the result of the staff clearance that took place in the Ministry. Sixty experts have been released from work in connection with the abolition of jobs. And by the way, before the President's proper decree came out without warning, many of them were on vacation. Social Democrats do not share leadership approaches to choosing priorities. In our view, the Ministry is primarily obliged to address the issue of social security for young professionals, to give the graduate the right to choose a profession, to provide housing, to pay for the work of the interns, and to realize that additional financial flows can ensure the implementation of the Law on Stately Compulsory Health Insurance. The faction asks the President of Ukraine to explain whether the so - called reforms are the implementation of his health reform program, whether it is the minister’s vision. Does the president share the authoritarian method of managing the Ministry? The faction asks the Prime Minister to cancel Order 81. We need to consider the reform of the staff ideology of the ILO in college, the adoption of the Health Development Program by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, statements from MPs and factions have ended and factions have been completed. We have 3 petitions from members of the people who demand that they be given the opportunity to speak in connection with their discontent with the answers they have received for their parliamentary requests. In accordance with the Rules, Michael Kosev is given the floor. Prepare Petrova, Victor Petrova.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u24	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! Last year's presidential election, as I've seen and many of you, I've had to go to many regions of Ukraine. When I met with miners, formerly, the Novomirgorodska mines in the Kirovograd region, I was approached by the workers of this mine with the question that in previous years they had huge debts of providing them with adequate coal. I spoke twice to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I must say that today's government has taken a significant step towards resolving this problem, and part of the debt has been repaid, but far from complete. So in response to my parliamentary request in this Chamber on February 28, 2005, Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Ukraine of Plačkov Ivan Vasilović said that it is impossible to fully repay the debt in this matter because there is no adequate funds available for this year. I also want to address you, Mr. Minister, and also Deputy Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. You know, you're doing a huge job, I know your workload and even overload, but ignoring even local minor issues in the life of the state is totally inappropriate. I very much ask you to go back to this particular question and solve it positively. The other one. What did the veterans of this mine, experienced workers, tell me? They think it's theirs. The Novomirgorodska mine was closed without sufficient scientific and technical reasoning. They think that this mine can still be open today, it allows both carbon layer laying down, and there's technology, and it can give, provide and give coal to the country, and give jobs to workers. So I'm addressing you, Reverend Julius Volodymyrically, especially with this problem, whether you want to take care of yourself or not, because I think it's totally worth it. To these documents that I have handed over to the Head of the Supreme Council, I add my additional parliamentary request to you on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u25	Victor Petrov is invited to the presentation. Prepare Vladimir Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u26	Victor Petrov, Communist faction, Vinni district. Respectable voters! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 2 February and 2 March this year, I sent two requests to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, for the prevention of the destruction and resumption of the work of the Berszewski and Moev sugar factories in the Vinnitsk region. The replies received from the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kinah are considered to be a mere write-off that does not contain specific measures. Anatoly Kinakh refers to the loss of sugar plants in the drilling zone. The mother - in - law zone has not disappeared in itself; it can and must be restored. Yushchenko has promised us 5 million new jobs and that the rich will help the poor. It turns out that the new power is destroying existing jobs, and the rich are helping the poor to become even poorer. That's what the sugar factory workers told me. Indeed, the new authority in Bershad, head of the Svetlan Shus Rajad administration of the Sobor Party, proposed re-profession of the Berszew sugar plant, leaving 72 jobs instead of 800. Moreover, Kabmin had introduced a bill to significantly reduce import duties on sugar, which would lead to the definitive destruction of the sugar-sugar industry and the loss of 600,000 jobs. As long as I've been in touch with the Government. To the sugar factories, the new old power has placed the destruction of the Vladov sugar plant of the Litinal region of our region on the verge of being destroyed. His workers picked up the district administration under slogans, "Dombrovsky is destroying the sugar industry!" "The new power is the new woes of sugar factories." The same applies to the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Two times as many sugar factories were destroyed as in the years of the fascist occupation. Not one so-called, effective owner, nor one official was brought to justice. The logic of our law enforcement agencies is that the destruction of factories, the reduction of jobs, are legitimate acts. Given that I have not received satisfactory replies to the parliamentary requests, I again ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, to take concrete measures to save Moevsky, Berszewski and now the Vladov sugar factories, to preserve jobs and resume their work. Do not go back to a bill to reduce customs duties on sugar imports. The Attorney General of Ukraine is to criminalize the perpetrators of the destruction of a number of sugar factories, leading them to bankruptcy. Moreover, the distinguished Yulia Vladimirovna, a few months ago, you were in this room and were justly indignant when your requests were answered, not by those to whom you addressed them, but by the replies. You have now successfully adopted this practice. I've asked you about the conservation of the three sugar mills that were working, just recently, of 1,000 people. Instead of taking specific measures, you do not even consider it necessary to respond as provided for in article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u27	Vladimir Novak is inundated, for the same reason that he was dissatisfied with the reply to the MP’s request to Ukraine’s Defence Minister, Anatolia Griesenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u28	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin As a national MP, I was approached by voters and residents of the closed military town of HH A3013. The point is that 25 families, some of them with underage children, live in the area of aviation storage depots belonging to the Ministry of Defense. There's also the production capacity of Haleville Ltd and the state-owned firm Ucrobronservis, which is involved in the disposal of ammunition and in the effusion of trotile. Houses are located more than 150 meters [150 m] from this explosion and fire - resistant production. And the inhabitants of these buildings are constantly influenced by harmful trotile fumes. Given the fact that there are freight terminals near the Greeks train station and the huge oil base, it's clear that this situation is causing some social tension in the 260th district center. Repeated calls by citizens on this subject to various agencies remain inadequate. Under the terms of the Convention on Disarmament, the superior authorities did not take care of people. Many commissions of various ranks came to the military, but no one asked, and why people live on the dusty side, and some even wondered how that was possible. People rightly ask, did the government not draw any conclusions from the events in Artemis and Melitopolis? People stayed on top of each other with their problems. It is necessary to give to the correspondents of the newspaper Podilski Courier, who have courageously defended the interests of the people, but they are also unable to have an interview today with the leaders of the military, with the managers of the ammunition processing companies. On this point, I asked the Ukrainian Defence Minister, Mr. Grizzenck, for a simple letter in which the responsibility for everything was transferred to the local authorities. The answer was just a few questions. First. When will the people of dangerous territory be displaced? And who is going to deal with this? After all, explosive production is made near residential buildings, not residential buildings next to it. The other one. Whether it is normal to pour trots out of the airbomb 150 meters [150 m] from the dwellings, a few tens of feet [10 m] from the iron. This is Lviv-Kiev, by the side of the oil base and assembly terminals of the Greek station? Third. Who and on what grounds has entrusted the processing of ammunition to the joint Ukrainian-Canada enterprise Gale LTD? I think that these questions should be given a concrete answer by the Secretary of Defense and a new government that talks so much about caring for people. Please consider this as a question of parliament, a re-deputy request to the Ukrainian Defence Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we have spent an hour of thirty - five minutes making inquiries, making speeches by authorized representatives of MPs and factions. At the same time, two factions -- the factions of the Ukraine and the Democratic Ukraine -- require a 30-minute break. Dear colleagues, I have come to understand that some of us are ready for early parliamentary elections. So let's just say I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes, because I don't think we're going to find any common ground. And then let's get back to work. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes, requiring the MP's faction "Ukraine" and the MP's group "Democratic Ukraine". And I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet on the third floor in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. Please, who should be the initiators of the breakup? Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u31	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! There are discussions about whether to be the investigator of a commission to protect the constitutional rights of our citizens or not, and should we describe the specific names of people who are already behind bars? I would like to remind the Hall of Honor about our colleague Agaphonov, whom we also discussed until, unfortunately, he left us all and died as a result of persecution. By the way. Janukovic was not the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the time, nor was Medvedchuk the Chief of Administration. And the charges are simply not accepted. Today, we are witnessing insolent disregard for the constitutional rights of citizens. But I've witnessed a lot of them saying that, aside from the two names of Kolesnikov and Bodelano, we can't mention anyone else. Yesterday, I read about 10 names of teachers, doctors who were released in the Gitomirsk region. I will now read out the names of the people who are released from school only because they do not hide that they are members of the Social Democrats Party and supported Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic in the previous presidential elections, namely: Oras Carlo Yuliusovich, Director of the Dersin High School of Secondary Education, and he is dismissed; Turtle Vasil Ivanovich, Director of the New David School, released from office; Petah Alexander Viktorovich, Director of the Honduvian School, Released from office; Ivanev Vasil Ivanovich, Director of the Chinese School, Bondar Paul Pavlovich, Director of the Lochiv School, Released from office; Lidovniko Nadija Alexivna, Director of the Ivanovishevishev, Director of the School of Civilization. [[United]] And there's another case: one of the heads of the Reichs administrations just because he's a member of a party of united social democrats, while he was being amputated because of the disease, he just got out of the drug and heard on TV that he was released. This authority has no masculinity if it frees a person under such conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues! During the session of the Conciliation Board, more votes came up with a proposal for a draft decree that is prepared and is now being multiplied. Once it is given to you, we will make the appropriate decision and consider the relevant draft decision. I think it's somewhere between 20 and 30 minutes. And now I suggest we move on to the agenda. A draft law on the administration of public property is being announced for consideration. Well, they're going to hand it over, then we're going to vote. Ukrainian National Rapporteur Seminouk Valentina Petrovna will speak from the committee, Vladimir Josephovich Matviev. These are the rules for consideration of the question, honourable colleagues: for the report, up to five minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, three minutes, for the co-report, within five minutes, for the discussion and for the decision-making process, up to 15 minutes. Is there no objection? None. Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Act of Adolescent Law on the administration of public property objects is a constitutional norm, and according to Article 116 of the Constitution, paragraph 5, is the law that must be adopted in order to clearly determine the legal mechanisms for the administration of public property. Today, we have a 1992 decree, which is imperfect and requires new conditions, especially after the adoption of the Constitution, of rules relating to the administration of public property. Why is this law needed today? First of all, determine the control settings. So far, there is no clear mechanism for the appointment of supervisory boards and audit boards in enterprises with mixed forms of ownership, in closed, in open stock companies, in holding companies, in national stock companies. And that's what we need today. The scientific and expert department's comments are correct. And I want to say that I think that these proposals can be taken into account in the first reading, in particular with regard to the management of the property left on the balance sheet of the objects, in the balance sheet of enterprises that are privatized, which have not entered the statutory funds. I want to say that the register of such property in the Maintenance Fund is now available, and after the parliamentary hearings, the State Property Fund, taking into account our decision in the session hall, has already done so. But there is no mechanism for managing these objects. This is also needed today because all of these objects are largely social objects. These are both pioneer homes, boarding houses, rest and so forth. All of these objects need a settlement mechanism. What I'm saying is that those remarks that relate, in particular, to corporate rights to manage parts of government property today need to be fully addressed. That analysis done by the Special Control Commission and now at the Maintenance Fund says that the representatives who are in the shareholders' associations are mostly not government officials, and according to the Public Service Act, they are not responsible for the efficient use of state property, and therefore the proposal that has been reflected in the Scientific and Experimental Department's observations is correct, and I believe that it can be accepted and that we take that opinion into account in the first reading. It is very appropriate to note that the management of objects that are punitive property is involved. I believe that these objects should do the same. The reflections relating to the management should also be reflected here. And I think we're going to have to do a little bit more here, and this is also a comment by the Scientific and Expert Department, especially with article 4 of the project, where we clearly recognize the form of management of legal persons in unified state enterprises, particularly in holding companies. This is what will make it more transparent, more precise, to define the management parameters, including even the selection of members of the Audit Commission from the State, on the part of those who are in charge of the property today. The Economic Policy Committee, which refers to the selection and competitive principles of managers who will go to the management of public property, particularly the encouragement that is needed, the mechanism of their interest on income must also be ensured, and I think that we will also take this into account when working. When we work on this bill and when we discuss it on the committees, we think that, and I think that in the Economic Policy Committee, we will definitely create a working group, and this bill, which needs adoption today, will be accepted as soon as possible, and we will take into account all the proposals made by the members of the Supreme Council, the factions and groups, in order to put an end to the negative that we have today, particularly in terms of the administration of state property objects. That's what we're actually going to have to do. I think we'll do it all right soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u34	Yes, are there any questions? You don't? Please sign up. Three minutes. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u35	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Mrs. Valentino! Basically, the general approach we're dividing because there's a problem, and it needs, let's say, a settlement. At the same time, agree that the project being prepared is not something that can be accepted immediately and in general. So, from your point of view, like the author, well, if you are, and you are now, I see, you agree that the project has some underwork, then the first question. Why has such reconciliation not been made before? And second of all. In your view, what are the principles of change not only in the work of the fund, but not only in matters of privatization, nationalization, but also in the project in order to become a working document, really, real.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u36	Dear colleague! I want to say that when I registered a bill on 10 August 2004, working on this piece of legislation, there was a different view of that selection of competitions that I was talking about, replacing managers for state-owned enterprises, notarizing the support of business managers. You noticed what I said, I'm paying attention to the scientific expertise department. By then registering this law, the program of the Cabinet of Ministers did not reflect it at the time. Today, this observation, I think, will be taken into account in the work being done, all the more that one more thing needs to be considered, is that by making inventory of public property and, in particular, preserving that property that remains on the balance sheet, it was not to that extent. As head of the Special Commission, I have not seen this register. Today, as fund manager, I can say that there is such a register, and we will write this mechanism together. What's more, we're going to need to adopt the Law on the Rights of Communal Property that regulates both state property and municipal property, because we have a mechanism for transferring state property to a utility, and we don't have a mechanism for preserving and managing it. So today it comes from these programming principles and activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government's action program.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u37	Vladimir Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u38	Petrenko, the Communist faction. Please give the floor to Parubek Emilian Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u39	Please, it's a guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u40	Valentina Petrovna, you refer to the 92nd Law. Under the Law, everything was sold out, all our national wealth. For example, we had six refineries, six refineries. Whose hands are they in? They're strategic objects, they're not in our hands. So they've been handed over, sold out elevators, chemical plants 6, everything's not in our hands. Do you think it's nationalizing or will we force our government to build new elevators, new refineries, oil refineries and chemical plants? You'll see what today, the saltpeter already requires 1,400 dollars. Because not all factories are in Ukrainian power, but outside. How will it be under your law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u41	Dear Omelane Nikonovich, I called it not the Law, but the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the administration of public property objects in 1992. This two-page decree, it didn't give a clear governance mechanism or even a record that says that the state can't intervene in the business activity of state-owned enterprises -- it says that the state gave it to corporate leaders and where they were conscientious, they left them. They're doing a good job today. And most of them went into privatization. As early as 1994, from this rostrum, I told them that before. How to go to mass privatization, we had to at least do inventory, figure out what we had. Look, what to do with privatization, what to do, what to leave to the state, what to turn over to municipal property, is we're just starting to do this whole work right now. And this law allows us to at least preserve what we still have today. To put the question of responsibility to the managers for government property, which is, its efficiency of management, the efficiency of those enterprises, jobs, wages, and so forth. That is what is urgently necessary today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u42	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u43	Respectable voters, respected people's deputies, respected Adam Ivanovich. The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 5 March 2005, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Management of Public Property Objects, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Valentina Semenyuk. The purpose of the bill is to improve legal regulation in the management of public property. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the draft Law on the Management of Public Property Objects can be taken as a basis, taking into account the comments and proposals made. In addition to the proposals made at the Committee's meeting and today in the discussion, it will be necessary to add that the draft does not specify who or how to manage public property that is in the process of privatization or has not entered into the statutory course of an economic society established in the process of privatization or corporateization. There is disagreement with the Economic Code, which should and may be adjusted during the preparation for second reading. There were contradictions in the text itself that had to be addressed by the author. For example, part two of article 1 provides that the law does not regulate the legal relationship in the privatization process, and paragraph three of article 3 of the first stipulates that public property in the privatization process is managed in accordance with the provisions of that law. There is a need for substantial clarification of the list of public property management entities. It is necessary to clarify which body manages other observations by which public property objects. In view of all this and the need for the adoption of a special Act on the Management of Public Property Objects, which follows from article 116, paragraph 5, of the Ukrainian Constitution, under which the Cabinet of Ministers administers public property in accordance with the law, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft Law “On the Management of Public Property Objects”. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u44	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Please, Kosov Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u45	Mikhailo Kosov, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Josephovich, the fact that such a law as would provide for a state as a successful manager in the management of the property that is still in his possession is undeniable. And it's good that the committee supports this law. But you, like Valentina Petrovna, have grown old in this room. So tell me, be good, I remember how in 1994, Valentino Petrovno, Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz, the head of the Supreme Council, and at that time this issue arose in this Hall, and he said that he was obliged to carry out this law through the Supreme Council. Say, be good, why isn't it going so hard? Is this law, like air, necessary for the state economy?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u46	As an old man in this room, I would like to remind you that at the twelfth or first convention, speaking here from the third microphone, I said that Ukraine was not ready to manage the people's holdings that it had acquired. And what then, including Plush Ivan Stepanović, who sits here, then the Council of Ministers, as he was then called Ukraine, acted in general as a great ombudsman. And then to run enterprises, especially nine ministries of federal submission to the so-called military industrial complex, we had no government husbands at all. And we have warned that management of this economy will be almost beyond our control. That's what I'm telling you as an old man. Why was this law not adopted at the time? And I'm just going to say, you know, the state is not, frankly, ready and not ready to manage this economy right now. And now I am not ready to manage this economy. This has not been the case for all this time, and we have tried to place it in private. I don't mean Communists. We are talking about the fact that we have never gained experience in governance at this time, because we have the prime ministers and governments changing at a fast pace, so let us be as quick as the revolutions take place. And I will tell you frankly: today's adoption of this law will not solve all problems of public administration even in the very best form. But it will enable us to start solving these problems, to teach people how to manage public property that we still have. This is one of the tasks. And the second challenge, and I think you'll agree with me, is to return to government property what makes profits, and this profit should be made to the State, not to squander it and not to embezzle it. That is why we have drafted a bill on nationalization, and we believe that “Our Ukraine” in this situation will also support the bill on nationalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u47	Yes, thank you. You broke the record -- you answered one question all the time. Have a seat, please. We've got 15 minutes to talk about this. Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u48	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The state sector continues to take the lead in the economy of Ukraine. Today, companies in the sector are creating, unfortunately, about 30 percent of their gross domestic tax. They use almost a third of the major assets in the economy, but the total value of assets exceeds 250 billion. That's right. The conduct of mass privatization, other processes of alienation of state forms of farming, has led to a significant decrease in the share of the state sector of the Ukrainian economy, and significant changes in its structure have taken place. Economic operators have been deprived of negotiable funds in the majority of their economies during the hyperinflation period and are now overburdened with significant debt obligations, resulting in their activities often being detrimental. So far, no legal basis has been established for the administration of state property or for the mechanisms for its execution. It is really necessary to have some unheard-of legal basis for the administration to solve the crisis that lasts for several years on the VAT "Sodow Plant" in Slovenia, where the share of state ownership is 100 percent. This business has been indebted to workers for 80 months. Why has this factory been turned into ruins whose hands 12,000 inhabitants of Slovenia cannot earn their earnings in a few years? And this is a state-owned enterprise, so what does the state come out to do, especially by destroying such objects? And in Kyrovograd, the government’s destruction program has resulted in the disappearance of the VAT dairy plant and a number of other state objects. And that's why a liter of milk in the city costs two 50-dollar bracelets, because it needs to be taken from another factory. And for this reason, the city’s only child’s kitchen disappeared. Unfortunately, the creation of a single register of state property has not yet been completed. Realized by valid legislation, State property alienation mechanisms are not based on the sole principles of valuation and sales, which create grounds for abuse. So the solution to the above problems should be put on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u49	Victor Mironenko, a faction of Communists, prepare for Michael Chersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u50	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Ukrainian Competitive faction. Respectable compatriots! The law governing the management of households is strictly necessary, but cannot be adopted in the proposed wording, article 7 of the Law on the Powers of the Housing Fund, since privatization is the first place in the bill and last place is the control of the effective management of the person, the acquisition by the State of a package of shares of enterprises of other forms of property. This ultimately leads to the privatization of even strategic sectors of the economy, which is understandable to everyone. In fact, article seven of this form is continuing the predatory privatization course initiated in 1991 by supporters of capitalism, i.e. nationalists, Democrats who cynically, falsely call themselves patriots, although their capitalist, anti-Russian course has resulted in the cruelly, cruelly looted people, Ukraine's economy has been halved, science, culture over socialist periods. The faction of the Compartia of Ukraine requires the adoption of this law to be based on the interests of the people of Ukraine, a State which is obliged not to serve oligarchs as it is now, but workers. The distinguished President, the head of the Government of Ukraine and the author of this bill, please take into account the positive experience of Western States, in particular Italy, where, following the pressure of the Second World War, Italy has expanded its economic sector, many strategic industries have been nationalized, are State property and serve the interests of the entire economy of Italy, the interests of the people. The State employs talented managers, managers, buys private enterprise stock packages, including in energy, sets affordable tariffs for the entire population, for the benefit of the economy as a whole. The entire economy has been established, for example, by Matikatini, ".“a strong association has been established. They are aware that scientific and technological advances have been made by powerful enterprises rather than medium-sized and small-scale enterprises. Ukraine, on the other hand, is being waged primarily for medium and small businesses, large production is being restructured, privatized, destroyed, which deprives investment opportunities, and innovative policies. Who doesn't understand? The bill did not give much attention to the management of State-owned property that was in the process of privatization. It is appropriate to reflect this strictly necessary rule in the bill. It should be reflected in the bill that public enterprises operate either as a state-owned business or as a penal enterprise. I propose to delete from article 11 the rule allowing public funds to be used for non-State investment, since it is clear that the Government will provide corruption and support to its private firms. I propose that the draft law be adopted on first reading, taking into account these observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u51	The word is Michaela Shershun, a faction of the People’s Party. He'll be followed by Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u52	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! It is not a secret that there is complete disorder in the sphere of government. Often, former state-owned enterprises, after corporateization and partial privatization, enter a vacuum when they have left the country and private owners have not yet taken part in the administration. And there are a lot of these examples of 100,000 privatized state enterprises. The situation became even more difficult after the liquidation of a special body dealing with the administration of state corporate rights. It is therefore very important that, in accordance with the bill, the Ukrainian State Property Fund analyzes the effectiveness of the governance functions, checks the performance of management contracts and prepares proposals to improve governance. All of this should put an end to the use of dissuasive schemes, passing the legislative privatization field, to prevent the reduction of the state share of property in statutory stockholding funds by artificially increasing their statutory funds. In support of the adoption of the bill in the first reading, the faction of the People's Party suggests: In the bill under consideration, include in public property objects that are administered according to this law, buildings, and nonresidential premises with the determination of the order of execution of the powers of the State as owner. A separate position to harmonize with the master’s and civil codes of Ukraine. In addition, to speed up the consideration and adoption of laws such as equity companies, reprivatization and nationalization of property, the State Property Fund, and to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Business Act. Amendments to legislation on non-admission of state-owned enterprises that are not subject to privatization and resolution of the issue of the liquidation of state-owned, national-owned holding companies whose activities are detrimental. We also believe that the separate position adopted on 15 December 1992 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Decree on Property Management, which is owned by the State, should be included in the bill currently under consideration, and in the Final Positions it should be noted that the decree has become invalid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u53	Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Behind her is Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u54	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161 Konotapian constituency I, like many of you in this room, must all want the good of our country, we want to be proud of it, and we all know the reasons why it is so difficult for us to live in this country. Here, for example, you're probably thinking the same way that I am, that the jumps we're making right now, we can't solve anything in this state. Well, we're going to solve one problem, another problem is coming up; one hole's been patched up, another one's coming out. We all understand that. We understand with you that there is a Supreme Council, that we have a government, that we have a President, and only together can we all solve the problem of our state. When you talk to your electorate in the district, I brought out one of those problems for myself, and it was the hardest one -- it was a blown-up trust in power. And all of a sudden we have this trust, and we have to keep this trust together somehow. I'll talk a little bit about the law, and then I'll tell you what. The purpose of this law, which we are currently considering with you, is to improve regulation in a series of administrations, regulation in the field of governance of public property. In particular, the realization of the rights of the State, our State, as the owner of the property of the State, is the essence of the bill. When we look at this bill, again for ourselves, the first thing we see in this bill is what we're looking at. First. This is a list of public property administrations and the extent to which they are authorized in the course of the above management, and a list of these projects and objects is provided. These include: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, central and local executive authorities, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, self - control organizations that have been transferred to state property for free use. The other one. And the main thing is that we're getting out of this bill. It is predicted that State corporate rights cannot be passed on to farm societies to form their statutory funds. And the third most important thing to consider is, with the net profit of the state-owned enterprise, the leaders of the state-owned enterprises can be awarded a reward, and this reward is assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is a percentage of the profits. These are very important points that may interest the leaders of our nation, the leaders of our state enterprises: working for their benefit. I want to say one more thing, but the reasons, or the goal that we have to achieve, is this goal that we have to do to make these state-owned enterprises work for our industry, our industry develops? To create auxiliary, new jobs, or new ones, to create viable labour groups that can protect themselves, because our people are used to working in collectives. And so we can have our own production that's being produced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Eugene Gorenik. Eugene Gorenik, please. None. Yuri Carmazin. Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, that's right. Mikola Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party Rightfully, the Supreme Council is concerned about the state’s control, the exercise of its rights and representations in shareholders and companies. In fact, the state budget is completely unprofitable and does not actually control this process and the interests of the state are not protected here. Therefore, the position of the Ukrainian People’s Party that the adoption of the bill will provide a comprehensive legislative basis for the implementation of governance processes will ensure a transparent relationship between the entities and the entities of the administration and the way it is implemented will contribute to effective regulation in the process of using state ownership and increasing the State budget. In view of this, the Ukrainian People's Party and I personally consider it appropriate to support the bill of our colleague Semenyuk, to support in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u57	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u58	Thank you, Mr. Head. John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that for 10 years, state property has only been a source to be privatized. And no one thought at all about how to manage that property. And there are a lot of businesses that are profitable, there are a lot of shares that are found or are working, you could say not for the whole society, not for the whole nation, but for some particular bunch of people. Hence, the need to adopt a law that would allow government property to be managed is very and very important. If we take the revenue we have today from government property, for example, last year, we can call it not more than a few hundred million dollars and that's it. So where did these businesses go? Who, then, are they working for? Why, then, are these enterprises owned by the State? So today there is such a need to improve government management. For about two weeks, I remember Prime Minister Julia Timoshenko holding a meeting with the directors of state-owned enterprises. I was at that meeting, listening very carefully to what was going on. It was about allowing the managers of these companies to have a normal salary. It was also about making extra payments from net profit to the employees who work for this company. It was also about using part of the net profit to develop this business. It seems to me that if you define this bill, it actually regulates the activities of enterprises by the higher authorities of the state. And if we complete this bill in second reading with economic and financial issues, the very questions, we're going to talk about, the management of the technological process of these enterprises, we're going to have another regulated area in the economy of Ukraine. So I'm also joining those who say that this bill should be adopted in the first reading, but I'm working on regulating at the legislative level this particular technological process of this enterprise. And we have to stop looking at state-owned enterprises as enterprises to make a small group of people rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the draft Law on State Property Management has been completed. There is a proposal by the committee that we should adopt as a basis the draft Law on the Administration of State Property Objects. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Concerning the adoption as the basis of the draft Law on the Management of State Property Objects. Registration number 6027. Please vote. [[13:11:00]] For 350. Decision taken. Given the importance of this draft law, I ask the committee to speedily develop it and prepare it for the second reading. People's deputies are requested to make appropriate proposals to the draft law. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? During the Conciliation Council, we agreed that a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of human rights and freedoms and a citizen in law enforcement will be prepared. This is a bill of decree number 7393 prepared and distributed to you. We agreed that we would vote for the inclusion of this document in the agenda. When it is included, the factions and groups will then make proposals to a special interim commission of inquiry. When they prepare such a draft decision on the composition of the interim commission of inquiry, we will confirm it. That would take only 150 votes. In case we don't make a decision with draft regulation 7393, then we'll go back to the question of the return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision, registration number 7376 -- on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelán. So, dear colleagues, we agreed that the draft ruling would be the first to vote, listen carefully, registration number 7393 is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary inquiry commission of 4 Ukraine on the issue of verification of human rights and freedoms and of a citizen in law enforcement. I'm betting on voting the question of inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:13:27]] For 275 Questions are included in the agenda. So, honourable colleagues, we voted and agreed that we voted for inclusion in the agenda. Now we need to prepare a commission, a commission's task is to determine the deadlines for submitting information, and we'll make the right decision. To do that, I remind you, it just takes 150 votes. So I'm asking, Your Honor, your proposals for the composition of the interim commission of inquiry from the MPs and factions to submit to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. We agreed that this would be the proportion: one of the 20 national deputies, but at least one of the factions. We need a personal storage unit. We can now vote for this warehouse and then vote. Dear colleagues, perhaps let's do this, may I have your attention, please? Let's do this this way: since we've already included this issue in the agenda, it takes at least 150 votes to make a decision on the interim commission of inquiry, let's take this decision now. It is decided that the commission's head is Musiak, and let them work, let them make all the proposals. For reasons, please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u60	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Although we believe that the commission of inquiry has deliberately narrowed down and ruled out such aspects of the pressure on our citizens as, unfortunately, illegal court decisions, as well as the pressure of tax administrations and other forms of pressure and other state-owned enterprises, which today can directly affect the lives of our citizens, I appeal to the Chief to vote the order on the basis and to be able to make proposals without interfering with the very name of the ruling. We cannot vote on it in general, but first on the basis. We insist and ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! This could be done in this way: given Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich's remarks, the commission should examine the decisions made in the judicial system by the available parliamentary control methods, write: "To form a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of human and civil rights and freedoms in law enforcement and in judicial practice." And write "in court practice" and make a decision. Please expand the spheres of activity. Do you mind, Nestor Ivanovich? Well, let's do it this way, dear colleagues. What, what? Okay, okay. Dear colleagues. Well, three minutes, with motive, please sign in, three minutes, please. Lilia Grigorovitch, please. Lilia Stepanovna, microphone, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u62	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Boris Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u63	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think we should now go exactly as the Conciliation Council has decided. It was a complicated decision, it was a compromise. And I think it should be kept in this session room. Now they're all convinced that the first decision was made by the parties -- and we've taken it and put it into the agenda. And moving away from the logic of the Conciliation Council, I think, is wrong. So, really, in accordance with the Rules, we can vote on the basis, and here I agree with my colleague Schufferich. We have to vote on the unchanged text, the exact same text of the decree, where it was difficult for us to give each word on the basis. And then separately vote on each amendment. This will be in line with both the Rules and the spirit of the arrangements and the interests of the matter. Any other way of stifling is once again a dead end. Please consider and do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Peter Cibenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u66	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, on the recent Conciliation Council of factions, represented our faction, and our faction supported both approaches, realizing that we were destined to make a decision in the Supreme Council. There's a problem. In her study we have to create a commission and all of these issues we have to settle here in the Supreme Council Hall, because since this is not going to be a decision in the Supreme Council, this problem will be solved in the streets. As for your proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I believe it is correct, and we could add to the title of this ruling, and to the essence of court practice as an integral element of this ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u67	Yes, the Komar faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u68	Please give Sulkov a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u69	Paul Sulkovski, "Ukraine regions", microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is such a proposal that the commission will be created and will conduct a review of the law-enforcement authorities and judicial bodies, and most of all today there is persecution and illegal liberation, a gross violation of the Constitution to the executive authorities, and I think you, as the Head of the Supreme Council, have written many petitions and statements to me personally, and we are informing you of what is being done. For example, I just want to tell you one thing, in the Plains, look, there you've been assigned, you could say, sick people on the head of both the region and the areas. And look at what's going on there. It's just horror one-on-one. So I make this proposal, and it is imperative that I examine it. The executive branch. About their activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Now, if you'll have your attention. Now that we're here, my dear colleagues, in order to maintain a constructive spirit of cooperation and understanding, let's take the project as a basis. I'm asking for your attention! But let's spell out the title of the regulation, so to speak. Boris Jakovitch, please listen. On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, and on the basis of a dot. And then it's in law enforcement, and it's in state institutions. Let the commission study. No warning? I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Registration number 7393. Please vote. [[13:22:09]] For 335 Decision taken. They took it as a foundation. Now, let's do some repairs. We'll vote that, every article. Okay. Please, what are the suggestions? Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki, offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u72	Vladimir Mikhailovich, what do we vote for? There's a mistake in the title here, some citizen goes on and on and on. How can we vote for such things? It's simple. It's not a technical error, it's basic illiteracy, and if it jumps into the documents of the Supreme Council, how can it be voted for?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u73	Ivan Sidorovich, I read it correctly, it's just a fingerprint there. It says "crowd," I read "citizen." Please, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u74	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, we propose that the following point be made in Preamble: "Check the circumstances of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolosnikov Boris, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan Borisovich and other facts of respect for the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens."
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u75	Please give me a chance to put this motion to the vote. It was from the proper determination there that the next one was, wasn't it? Where do we write it down, we write it? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Nestor Ivanovich suggests that in the preamble we have recorded, accentuated, pointed out: entrust the commission to check the circumstances of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik, the removal from office of the Odessa City Head of Bodelan, and other facts of violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. [[13:25:23]] For-187 Decision taken. Yes, Mikhailo Ratushny, please. I beg of you, Your Honor, may I have your attention? I am now asking for an explanation on this matter so that we can take a look. is shown that the decision has been made. That's why I told you. Well, because they're gonna check it out, 150 says so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u76	Vladimir Mikhailovich, add time, please tell them to add time. Dear colleagues, I, Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian National Party. I agree with my colleague Boki, I don't know who drafted this document? Read the first item: To establish a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the observance of human rights and freedoms and of a citizen in law enforcement or the law enforcement authorities and in the name of the person. It's all completely, well, it needs editing. This time. The other one. I would like to take note of the remarks made by the MP of Bespalogo. This motion for determination was, in principle, the result of compromise, to isolate someone, even.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u77	Please let me finish, just calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u78	It is not appropriate to isolate from all the citizens of our nation such important members of the SDPU(o) or the “Regions”. Let's talk about violation or non-violence of the rights of citizens, of all citizens. So I think this Schufferch proposal, it didn't pass and it just shouldn't vote if you want to compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you. Well, one minute, wait. About what? Wait, there's been no motive yet, no vote. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I would ask that we be aware of what we have agreed, and Boris Jakovitch said that he supports Nestor Ivanovich, who should vote on the basis, and then vote on the amendments as they will be. But apparently, it was out of sight that it was necessary when the included issue in the agenda for the adoption of its own decision in accordance with the amendment of 150 votes, the result was obtained. Now let's check, please, I'm asking you to calm down. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u81	What's the line?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u82	Please calm down and take the article. Please take the 89th article of the Constitution, the Basic Law of Ukraine, which says, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conduct of investigations into issues of social interest creates temporary commissions of inquiry, if this has been voted by at least one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." So the question of inclusion in the agenda is to get 226 votes. The very decision to create a temporary special commission and amendments to the decree should be made by 150 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u83	Boris Bespaliy, a replica of Boris Bespalogo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u84	It's not a replica, it's a principled observation. Well, you can have a replica with the rest of it. Dear colleagues, the fact that the commission was created is actually 150 votes. But the documents of the Supreme Council, the rulings are taken by the majority. The clarification that was made does not refer to the fact that a commission was created or not created. Otherwise, if we follow Adam Ivanovich's logic, we can do that by creating a commission of any kind first, and then 150 votes can completely change what we voted for. According to his logic, the text should then be voted on in general and without change. Otherwise, by taking on something as a basis, the minority can turn it upside down. That's why we insist on 226 votes. And finally, the political aspect of the deal. Right on the Conciliation Council, and we went to meet, we warned that there would be an attempt to overwhelm, and now we see an attempt at action. That's why I'm asking for 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down. What's the line? But listen, let's have another name when they call it. Calm down, please. Dear colleagues, one minute, calm down, please. Please read the Rules, there's no word for "party," we're just going to make sure there's no resistance in the room. Calm down, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain again. Boris Yakovitch, distinguished colleagues. May I have your attention, please? We've been asking questions about inclusion in the agenda. It takes 226 votes to put the provisional commission into the agenda of the day. But it takes 150 votes to form a commission on its own and decide on the commission. So you say cancel, let's cancel the Constitution. I agree with you that we have to make arrangements, but there is no one else. One minute, not all of us. Just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. What did they vote for? Yeah. Right, Boris Jakovic, we voted in favour of including this decree in the agenda. What's wrong? I'm telling you in Ukrainian, listen, please, we voted in favour of putting in order the day-to-day question of the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of a citizen. We're on. After that. Listen to me! We put questions in the agenda. After the draft decree itself has been voted on, 150 votes are required by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u86	I want to say again, dear colleagues! I want to say again, there's a Constitution and there's a Rules. In accordance with the Rules. I want to say it again. What? I don't want anything! I want what I have. Dear colleagues, let's face it, we've always had a problem putting the commission into the agenda. We didn't have a problem with forming a commission, because it takes 226 votes to be included. And in order to vote, I stressed this, it's in the transcript, it's in the decision itself -- 150 is required. What is the basis for the commission? A commission is formed by decree. Let's raise your speech now, you said yourself that you support Nestor Ivanovich, one minute to vote on the basis, and then the amendment to vote on the whole. If voted on as a basis, amendments are envisaged, right? Where does it say that? Let me see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u87	Why? Why should I give Chernobyl? That's different. Mikhail Vasilovich, what we haven't done is another question. That's another question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I read, my fellow Members, until the end: "The Supreme Council adopts laws, regulations and other acts by a majority of its constitutional composition, except for the cases provided for in this Constitution." One minute! And the Constitution provides for the creation of a special commission by a third of the votes cast. [[B in m in s a l in]] And it's made by what commission, please tell me? What is the basis for the commission? It's a decision. Yes, please, let's make suggestions. [[B in m in s a l in]] From what? From what? From what? Yes, please log in from the review procedure. Well, let me put it to a vote, let's vote if you do. Let's vote. Three minutes, please. Sign up. Bogdan Costinjuk. Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u88	National movement of Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinyuk. Please pass the word to Boris Bespalam.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u89	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u90	Thank you. And I want to draw everyone's attention to the Constitution. A commission of 150 votes is formed. And the first paragraph of the decision, "Creating a commission of inquiry" is this paragraph: 150 votes. And then there's the other thing that goes on in the decision: pick your head, set your tasks, materially and technically. These paragraphs of the decree have nothing to do with creation, that's 226 votes. This is article 91 of the Constitution. And what's more, we had arrangements then we didn't do that. Otherwise, if there are no 226 votes, I make a proposal on behalf of the faction: in view of the fact that we are in breach of all the arrangements, we put to the vote the question of cancelling and accepting the issue as a basis. Otherwise, if all the arrangements are broken, then we ask that this order be revoked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues! From me. Please, Masenko, Alexander Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Well, in this situation, all I have to say is, Boris, you're wrong. In the sense that everyone only invents in the situation that they're comfortable with. Well, the read norm of the Constitution, we already have a rule. If we follow Boris Bespalogo's path, we would never create or create a commission, but we would probably take into account the situation that is often in Parliament, and we put such a standard in the Constitution, which says that 150 votes are needed to create a commission. And you don't have to come up with anything. That someone might have broken some kind of arrangement -- well, that's different. It's our common misfortune that we have these policies: where the wind blows, where they put their agreements. So that's what we've been seeing for years, and to hope only for that, you'll figure it out somewhere outside the session room. And I think the procedure is right, 150 votes, let's vote and form.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u93	Yes, the Komar faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u95	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! First of all, the creation of a commission is the whole text of a commission decision. Here is the basic norm of the Constitution and the attempt to implement it, it does no good to anyone. The other one. It's the 150-voice rule for creation. It's the norm that protects the rights of opposition, and we're always normal and I, when I was here in the opposition to the previous one against Kuchma, we used this standard all the time, and all the committees that were created, were both in Mukachev and in this way. And a third of what I'd like to point out. I think now without any commission, it's clear that Kolesnik's case is political, because it's so fiercely afraid of creating this commission with literally any involvement. the way the name Kolesnik's supporters Victor Yushchenk is called. What's more, yesterday on television, one of the deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine" directly said that Kolesnikov is a criminality because he broke, you see, electoral. the pre-election meeting in Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u96	Thank you. Exchanged thoughts. Three minutes, we're on. Please, second paragraph. Second item, please. What are some other suggestions? What are you yelling at?Oh, my God! Sign up! What are you yelling at? Proposals for a ruling, please. Please sign up for the motions now, come on. Please sign in. A miner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u97	Eugene Greenick, "Our Ukraine", Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. I see that there are political games going on here, it was practically an agreement to vote and create a commission without any verbal twists. With the lie coming, I propose to vote in favour of this decision and, indeed, it will be different if I vote 150. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u98	Please, I wrote it down. We agreed on three minutes. Vladimir Yeshchenko, please. I'm going to put this proposal to the vote as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u99	Fucking Communist faction. Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask, first of all, that you name the name of the decision again for the radio audience and for the MPs, because there was a comment by a number of deputies on the text. The second question. We've already voted for a number of changes. I propose to put it to a vote because the motors will continue to raise questions, and we should vote on the decision as a whole. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan. None. Alexander Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u101	May I have the floor to the MP Rudzkowski?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u102	Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm going to propose a point that I think will reconcile both the right and the left. If we're in this resolution and we're going to write a paragraph, "Check out the abuses committed by former President Leonid Kuchma and his environment, which have led to severe consequences," we're going to vote 150 votes, then I'm convinced that this decision will then retake 300 votes. Please put this to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! It's a very wise offer, but then I'd like to say that the entire hall will then be surrounded by Kuchma, including the one who made that point. [[Applause]] A very wise offer, if necessary, I can remind you of the details. Dear colleagues! There were three minutes' offers. It was a one-minute offer. Oh, Oleg Belarus, there's still a right to speak, there's still time. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u105	I propose that this decree be lifted, that it be abolished, because we will not come to anything, by 150 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Dear colleagues, one more minute, Silence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u107	Excuse me, pass the word to Mikhail Ratushna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u108	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, since some have gone into such a distant debreath, it is worth reminding us that now so much is the vote for the Commission. Who in their own time is speaking out against the adoption of a special law, about special commissions, this time. Second, so I propose to amend the Shufrich amendment, which was voted 150 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u110	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, to normalize ours, then with the motives they were called, if you please. But wait, well, suggestions, time is up, well, not one of you can make suggestions. Suggestions will go to specific articles. Dear colleagues, three national MPs, two national deputies have proposed that the ruling be revoked, and we can put this motion to the vote if you want. But the proposal was palliative, to exclude the proposal that was made and voted in order to write in the preamble a specific task: to check the circumstances of the detention of the head of the Donetsk district council of Kolesnik, to remove the Odessa city head of Bodelan, and other facts of violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. I'm voting on a motion to exclude this amendment. Which the Supreme Council has accepted before that. [[13:46:09]] For-152. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, in order to preserve our consensus, we accept this document. Dear colleagues, we've cancelled the amendment. Now I'm going to read the draft ruling. What you insist is no longer possible. Then there'll be nothing at all. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. May I have your attention, please? On the Conciliation Council there was an agreement, please note, on the Conciliation Council there was an agreement that we would vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft decision. That's not true, I'm sorry. There was an agreement on the Conciliation Council that we would vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day question of the establishment of the Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The Supreme Council made a decision. On the Conciliation Council, we agreed that if we made a positive decision, we would have a draft decision prepared with the full composition of this committee, then we would make a decision. If you don't want to, please, it'll be a decision. I propose that the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, receive from the MPs and factions proposals on the composition of the commission of one of the 20 national deputies, but at least one of the factions. And when the draft decision is ready, we will vote on it. Please note that 150 votes will be required. Thank you. All of it. No, no more breaks, no more breaks. All right, let's get this over with. The Rules state that a break may take place. Let's not abuse it. A draft law on the order of forced alienation of privately owned property objects is being announced for consideration. [[Nationalization]] Please. All of it. Please, I'm announcing a question. Grill microphone, please. Well, that's absurd. I want to say once again, dear colleagues, it was the agreement of the Conciliation Council, you voted for it. You supported it, all of it. I'm asking you, let's make any decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u111	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to add some time. Dear colleagues, we have now become the creators of a very dangerous precedent when the vote repeals the Commission's already adopted decision. If there is a majority, not only 150 votes, but 250 votes, and then any minority commission will be abolished by a majority. In this case, I am not interested in the question of Bodelan and the Wheeler, not about the content of the Order, but about the principle. We're today. A procedure. Today, by this vote, we have effectively abolished the existing Constitution. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this can't be allowed in the future. We, the Communists, represent a minority in the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u112	That's the thing. Dear colleagues, we have not canceled, we have taken the decision as a basis, but the Supreme Council has the right to vote, it has voted, and it has abolished the amendment that has been voted on. Please, the draft decision was adopted as a basis, we didn't cancel it. They're working on this document, and then we'll take it. What else do I need, I can't understand? Yes. Storm, there was a replica of the Shuma. Igor Mikhailovich, Shurma, you had a line, please use it. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, read the Constitution, you can't trade the Constitution so harshly, read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u113	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I'd like to go to the audience who are looking at the peripeties that are happening in this room. It's a very interesting situation. The people who represent the political power of today, headed by the Honourable Head, the President of Ukraine, the "Our Ukraine" bloc, are opposed to determining whether there are political repressions or not. And I'm also addressing Mr. Ratushny. When you call Kolesnik and you call Bodelano, I would ask you to know who is a member of the party and who is not. Because ignorance is always an unpleasant thing neither for the complicated nor for the other party. So I have to tell you that Social Democrats are speaking and taking part in these processes for one reason, because we are interested in the legitimacy of the actions of that power that you represent. On the Mayan of Independence, you talked about democracy, and today, I'm sorry, three letters from behind are correct, and in front of them are false. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-20-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Regulatory Committee to consider today's question on how many votes are needed -- 150 or 226 -- so that the Regulatory Committee confirms that the Constitution of Ukraine needs to be implemented. We ask that the General Legal Office draw the right conclusions. And we'll give you the relevant information during the meeting tomorrow. Considering that we have parliamentary hearings at 2.30 p.m. and considering that two factions require a recess, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Parliamentary hearings will begin at 2.30 p.m. At the same time, a committee meeting will take place at 15 hours. Thank you.
