ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. There are 409 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. We stopped with you on Bill 5315 on amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption actors]] [[second reading]] Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u2	Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of December 21, last year, the committee was working on a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Complementation of the Law on Combating Corruption on the Definition of Subjects of Corruption and Other Offences involving Corruption of Leaders and Other Officials of the State, I stress, State Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations, by the Ukrainian National Deputy of Moroz. The bill proposes to establish, at the legislative level, corruption and other offences involving corruption of directors and other officials of state enterprises, institutions, organizations that will increase the personal responsibility of the director for the adoption or rejection and implementation of administrative decisions, as well as the responsibility for unlawful service offences of his subordinates. In the drafting of the bill, a proposal by the Ukrainian national deputy Karmazin to disagree with the law was considered, paragraph (d), which was rejected because it was conceptual and was the subject of discussion and consideration of the law on the first reading. In fact, Yuri Anatoliyovich, when discussing the bill, held the opposite view and expressed his support for the bill. After considering the draft draft draft for the second reading, the committee considers it possible to bring it up in second reading and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in second reading and in general as a law. It was the committee's opinion. I want to express my personal opinion. I just think that this addition is inappropriate to the law, because the heads of state enterprises, if they are civil servants and they have to answer as civil servants, and as business managers they are not the bearers of power and they cannot be the subject of corruption. They are the manager of the host entities. So that's why it's such a colossal event. I'm bringing to the attention of the Supreme Council that the committee has supported. I express my position: that it is inappropriate to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u3	Yuri Carmazin, the amendment. And he insists on Yuri Anatolyovich. Microphone. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, Yuri Anatolyovich is filming. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? A committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Combating Corruption. [[on corruption actors]] Registration number 5315. Please vote. [[16:07:11]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communist faction is 51, the Ukrainian People's Party is 1, the People's Party is 24, our Ukraine is 3, the Timoshenko-5, the SPU is 24, the Ukrainian People's Party is 20, the SDPU is 11, the People's Block is 19, the People's Trust is 7, the Reforms and Orders is 9, the One Ukraine is 9, the National Movement of Ukraine is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine is 4 and the Non-Frakational is 11. Who's in charge of re-reading the draft law, registration number 5311. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u4	5315.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u5	Huh? 5315. Excuse me, excuse me. 5315.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u6	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u7	Well, that's fine. For -269. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u9	Yes. Please announce the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. [[on corruption and other offences]] Registration number is 5315-1. Reporter Volodymyr Mikolajovic Stretovic is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u10	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The bill was introduced by the Kosovo People's MP and the decree of December 21, 2004, the Supreme Council commissioned the committee to work on it and make it available for second reading. The bill proposes to include Ukraine's Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers and military officials Armed forces and other military formations. In the drafting of the bill, proposals from Ukrainian national deputies were considered: Stretovich, Karmazin, and Onichuk. The proposal of the Ukrainian national deputy onichuk is not reflected in the table for technical reasons, but the content is similar to the proposal I made and it is taken into account. The proposals of the People’s Deputy Karmazin are partially taken into account. With regard to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it should be noted that, according to the Rules, the question of the unification of draft laws is decided only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since the Chief Legal Authority suggested that we unite them during the preparatory phase for the second reading. In the case of the adoption of the bill as a law, paragraph "g" should be aligned with the numbering of the paragraphs of article 5315 in relation to which I propose that paragraph "g" should be counted as "g" according to the alphabet. After considering the draft draft draft for the second reading, the committee considers it possible to bring it up for consideration in a second reading and recommends that the Supreme Council accept it on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u11	Amendment by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin Please, it's Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Carmazin, the Party of Motherland Defenders. There's no numbered revisions here, I'll call it the first amendment. Paragraph “b” of part 1 of article 2 should be worded as follows: “Prime Minister of Ukraine, other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”. So far it has been written: “Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers”. And the other members that come in are heads of state committees and so on, they don't get covered. Unless you're under government officials, maybe under point one, maybe you're falling for it. That's why I wanted no one to slip away, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, so that no one could slip away, I wanted to expand this circle and so wrote: “other cabinet members.” I mean, those who go in but don't show up like that. Do you understand? They're not ministers. And so you only have ministers written. So I'd like to ask you to agree, because you'll see that there are a lot of people who are compared to a member of the government and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u13	Yuri Anatolyevich, your honor's colleagues, let me give you a hand. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers only consists of the Prime Minister, the First Vice-Prime Minister, the Vice-Prime Minister and the Ministers all. So if you wrote "members of the Cabinet of Ministers," you narrowed down the scope, the field of activity of this law. I may be wrong, but please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u14	I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, support you, and I want to say for those who listen to us, and for this hall which is called the Cabinet of Ministers. This cabinet includes only ministers, as the Latins say, in office, and no one but them can enter. Therefore, the list set out in paragraph “b” is exhaustive: Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministers. And let's put a dot on that. And the hall will decide whether to accept the amendment or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u15	Yuri Anatolyevich agrees, cancels the application. Your second amendment, Yuri Anatolyovich, do you insist on it? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u16	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to remind you that this is an amendment. The first sentence I propose is part two of article seven, which reads: “The act of corruption provided for by this law by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Deputy Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Deputy or Head of the Local Council shall entail administrative responsibility for the decision of the court in the form of a fine of 100 to 150 untaxed minimum citizens’ incomes and the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers or the dismissal of elected members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, deputies and heads of local councils, except in cases where criminal responsibility arises for the conduct of such acts under the law. [[I'll give you an accent!]] So we clearly say that please take all measures to combat corruption, and this does not require an additional decision to remove anything. If this is a decision, it has to be applied. I don't know why I rejected the committee, because the conclusions and the reasons that are provided in the table are somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u17	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. I think the members of the committee have the prognostic gift of foresight, they knew that in September the corresponding law would be signed, and that rule would go against that law. Today, when the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is in force, which is essentially unconstitutional, to my deep conviction, to record such an amendment today, which was done long before, I think, completely inappropriate. Let the Constitutional Court put a dot on parliamentary immunity. On the other hand, let me explain why administrative responsibility depends on the social damage caused by this corruption. If there is a criminal component, a member of the local council, a national deputy, a member of the RC Supreme Council should be criminally responsible, including. And the sooner we put in place this standard in the state, the easier it will be to fight corruption, and society will immediately feel the change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u18	Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on this amendment? It is contrary to valid laws, in principle. All right. I put to the vote the amendment of Yuri Carmazin to this effect: the act of corruption envisaged by this law, the National Deputy of Ukraine, the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Deputy or Head of the City Council, is responsible for administrative responsibility for the decision of the court in the form of a fine of 100 to 150 untaxed minimums of citizens' income and the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers or the dismissal of elected members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Deputies and the heads of local councils, except in cases where such actions under the law are criminally responsible. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u19	Please be supportive. [[16:15:12]] For-73
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u20	The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u21	There's nothing to talk about. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is up to the vote to propose a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a draft law, registration number 5315-1 amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on corruption and other offences. Please be determined. For - 208. The decision is not taken. 208. I'm voting for the second reading of the bill, registration number 5315-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:16:22]] For 273 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to include a number of bills in our agenda, in the agenda. And then. We should now consider the inclusion in the agenda of amendments to the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. The author requests that the draft law be postponed. Is there no objection? Now, the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine relating to the Experiment of Housing Construction on the basis of the Kyivmishkbud Holding Company. Registration number 8386. I'm voting on the inclusion of draft law, registration number 8386, into the agenda. For – 212 The decision is not taken. Who, in order to return to the consideration of the issue of inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8386, please vote. [[16:17:56]] For 268. We went back to considering putting it in the agenda. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of draft law 8386 is put to the vote. Please vote. For 267. Decision taken. The report invites the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Svašaš Dmitro Volodymyrovich. Committee member, excuse me, committee member. The Rules of Procedure are proposed: for a report of up to three minutes, answers to questions, in three minutes, discussion and decision-making, it is written here, 10 minutes. Is there no objection? You don't? So we're working. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u22	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today, I have the honour to report to you a very important and non-average issue, namely the draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine relating to the Experiment of Housing Construction on the basis of the holding company Kyivmiskbud. Now I would like to point out that this bill is not only aimed at improving and disseminating the economic and legal mechanisms and social protection and housing financing tools initiated by the experiment, but also at improving a large number of legislative acts that are directly or indirectly relevant to the solution of this emergency, and, if we say so directly, to provide housing for citizens. Let me remind you briefly about the bill. The experiment was initiated in accordance with the Ukrainian Law of April 20, 2000. Over five years, more than 3.6 million square feet [3.6 million sq m] of housing have been built, and this number of dwellings has increased annually. And this experiment covered not only Kiev, but also a whole range of large cities in Ukraine, particularly: Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa, Poltava, Zaporozhye, Vinnica, Harks, etc. Apart from the legislative strengthening of the improvement and expansion in the region of the positive effects of the housing experiment, as well as the financial and economic mechanisms and tools used in its implementation, this bill is aimed at addressing a wide range of important and urgent issues, namely: strengthening the protection of property rights of minors through the establishment of a mandatory agreement between the guardianship and guardianship bodies for any settlement operation or other right of action regarding their costs or property; expanding the availability of and mortgage lending of housing; removing legislative coalitions that impede the introduction into the circulation of mortgage certificates and the introduction of new types of securities, certificates of the foundation; removing legislative commissions that impede the introduction of transactions into the circulation of cross-border certificates; and the enforcement of certain regulations and regulations that govern the implementation of certain regulations and regulations. It was not the necessary change in the tax system that was mentioned once in the session hall. In general, it is proposed to amend up to 25 legislative acts. You know, these are very big laws, in detail and in detail, these innovations and the justifications for their implementation are set out in an explanatory note to the bill. At the conclusion. The committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this Law in the first reading and to engage in the discussion so that it can be accepted by all together. This is of great benefit to our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u23	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up, three minutes. Please log in. Yes, on the board, please. Anatoly Orzhachowski, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Dear reporter, I understand the experiment is good if there's money in the budget for it, however. I have come to realize that this bill is a prerogative and the best will be for the citizens of the city, and in the villages, the villages, as always, the new construction will not be carried out, and the underdevelopments that we have for many years will be destroyed. Do you think this is in accordance with the Constitution, in general, according to morals and so forth? It suits all of them, so there's no equality in our understanding that we're constantly creating colonies, and so on? And when this is all over, can a little town and all the initiators of this kind of experiment be able to share with the villagers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u25	Thank you for asking. You know, actually. More than 30,000 citizens are now participating in this experiment, not only in cities, but also in rural areas, in small cities. So this experiment is already common in rural areas. Because it was introduced in the Kyiv region, the Poltava region, that is, even though there is a name in the law for an enterprise located in Kiev, but this experiment is already common, so I think that the constitutional standards of the villagers are not violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u26	Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u27	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, no doubt this bill has its own logic, both legal and social. And in this context, I think, for example, it's better to do something real to build housing than just moralize about how hard and difficult it is for us to live, especially in the country. Please tell me, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, to what extent, how will your bill and the dissemination of this experience, Kyivmishkbud, undoubtedly positive, contribute to obtaining housing the most, well, disadvantaged population today, I mean young people? Whether it will contribute to the implementation of those youth housing programs that we've adopted so much, but unfortunately they're not moving out of place. So how will it contribute to the implementation of the youth housing program?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u28	Thank you. Thank you for asking, it's very timely. You know, I want to say that this experiment, it's spreading to all Ukrainians in independence from age, because what is contributing to youth building, it's being put into other legislation, but it's because of these mechanisms that are being incorporated into this law that young people can join them, and it's also going to reduce the cost of housing for them. I mean, I think it's appropriate, and from this point of view, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u29	Yes, thank you. Please have a seat. Time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now on to the discussion. We agreed for 10 minutes. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. And that was from the committee. This was a joint statement aimed at making a decision as quickly as possible. John the Rabbit will speak next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u30	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I like what Kyivmisbud does, and I like that a lot of housing has been introduced, let's say in the first half of 2005, 297,000 square meters. But I don't like the fact that other organisations can't use equal opportunities with Kievbuilding. I don't like this. I also do not like the fact that the Constitution provides for an equal attitude toward all subjects of farming. We immediately determined that there was one thing to do. So in this respect, there are elements to the inadequacy of the Constitution of this law. I wish there was more to be built in Kiev, but I don't want any less to be built in Zitomir or Winnitz or Chernig or Odessa. So I have this misunderstanding about some of my standards. For example, changes to the entire codex are being made without the legal committee’s profile. Because it's a very serious thing: when we change the framework law, which is this law, to such serious laws. That is why I am now afraid to define my unequivocal attitude toward this bill. On the one hand, Kyivmishkbud and colossal gains, starting in 2000, have been growing at about 10 percent annually. But I don't see cheap housing in Kiev today, and I don't see the apartment today that provides for the Chinese themselves. It's all over the place. It's worth it. And I don't take it at all, let's say, what's on the proposal for this company to put in this version of the Privatisation Act: "In relation to this enterprise, the rules of the Ukrainian Master Code are terminated in part and so on." There is no business to stop the operation of any code that exists in our nation. So I think this law needs to be re-readed. And reduce the number of norms that would have to be changed that easily, given that this is necessary for the existence and development of one, even the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u31	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u32	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is not so simple that it can be taken so easily. On the one hand, there are a lot of positive points in this law. This is about regulating the formation of funds that finance housing construction and the management of the resources that are created for housing construction. And there's a big, big positive. On the other hand, as you can see, Karmazin was speaking to me and was talking about some social benefits for a particular subject. Therefore, we need to appreciate how beneficial this subject is to our society. Did he really create such a housing system and, in fact, providing housing that could be supported by these preferences today? Or maybe we're doing these preferences to make it better in terms of other things, like combinations. On the one hand, I'm saying, if you look at it, all of these funds are created, and from these pension funds go this funding. And we have a huge increase in housing construction. But how does this affect, not Kiev, for example, in other cities? How does this relate to the problem of talking about the construction of social housing? Because there are many questions and very few answers. So I think we need to discuss this bill very well. In particular, I'd like to hear the experts who are working on this problem, because the question is very important. In fact, the point is that there was an experiment like this before, and this experiment wants to go on. So what's the summary of this experiment? What's his perspective on this experiment? That's what we're talking about today. How should we act? Because if we don't support it, on the one hand, we can destroy the mechanism that's already working. If we support it, we can raise a monopoly that will smother, for example, other structures and other spheres. So the question is very, very difficult. And I would like us to listen very carefully to those who understand the problem and make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u33	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u34	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The question from the rostrum was, "What did the Kyivmiskbud and Kiev experiment give?" I can say with certainty, I think the audience in the room will agree. This gave rise to only one: the construction of housing in Kiev today accounts for about 95 per cent of all the housing that is being built in Ukraine. That is, in principle, the construction of housing, as an industry, has continued in Kiev. The experiment has continued because the holding company has been operating for several years. What is proposed today? Today it is proposed to amend a number of laws, such as the Civil Code, the Family Code, the Income Tax Act, the Financial and Credit Mechanism and Property Management in Housing and Real Estate Operations, and the Mortgage Act. That is, in principle, it is suggested that the element of the experiment, i.e. how and under what conditions the holding company existed so that it would continue to build housing under the same conditions. Is that right or wrong? The construction of housing must be an important industry. I think you'll agree with me that Ukraine is building a construction boom today because, apparently, construction is the beginning of an economic recovery. Therefore, speaking of whether this bill should be adopted, I can say with certainty that it is necessary, with one small component, to be strongly convinced that in such circumstances other construction organizations should work and build which are willing to build housing. Because otherwise we will have one organization to build in Kiev. Today we know, and have not once been reported in the media, that this holding campaign is already taking place in other, including regional, centres in Ukraine. I mean, she's starting to expand her activities. The representatives of the other Territories will agree with me. There are construction organizations that would also like to build on this topic. And I think that creating a competitive environment would allow a little bit of improvement in construction and, above all, housing pricing. Why? Because according to experts, a square meter, regardless of the construction site, costs $300, up to $400. The cost of housing in Kiev and in the same holding company we're talking about, I don't think there's any point in talking about these prices. It's already measured by thousands of the same dollars. Therefore, based on logic, I think that we should think about it and probably adopt a law that requires that all construction organizations involved in housing should have conditions in which they can benefit from resources and invest in housing. And if there is competition, it will be possible to say that housing will be cheaper than what it is today, when not only the rich can't buy themselves, let alone the middle class, but more so for those with low incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u35	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we've agreed to talk for 10 minutes. If someone insists on signing up for motives, please. Who insists? Yuri Solomatin? You won't? Konovaluk? I won't. The raven? I can't see. Is there a raven? Microphone, please, Yuri Borisovich Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of Julia Timoshenko, People's Deputy Crook. The law that is being considered today in the Supreme Council Hall was adopted in 2000 and the experiment that we are talking about, which was created by Kyivmiskbud, is absolutely evident. These are the figures that were presented today for housing construction not only in Kiev. Yuri Karmazin says that it is very important that this experiment be extended to other regions. And I have to tell you that this experiment is already working successfully in other regions. It should be stressed that the housing that Kyivmiskbud builds is one of the cheapest in the world. And the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u37	Yes, please, the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the expert conclusions of the government on this bill. The general assessment was negative to these proposals, and the government did not support the bill for two reasons. The first is what the bill creates, it bears signs of discrimination. We violate the basic standards provided by the Constitution in relation to the competitive conditions of the various subjects. If a million square meters of housing were built in Kiev, tens of thousands of construction companies in other regions are built. But only one company did we create preferences. We've created attractive investment conditions for this apartment based on sources of construction customers that are not stimulated by other companies. We realize that this is a good idea and that we need to support it. No one's denying it. But we definitely don't support the position where preferences are created, primarily tax preferences. You look at the sources of fund-building proposed in the bill. All of them go in the form of benefits and legal persons and individuals. In doing so, the formation of non-state pension funds, which are on the same terms as the Pension Fund, in Kyivmishkbud, but tax preferences are prescribed in general terms for financing non-State pension funds, are not allowed. So we would ask you, the national MPs, not to support this bill. You can go back to him in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please prepare for the vote. A proposal is put to the vote by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine relating to the conduct of an experiment in housing on the basis of the holding company Kyivmiskbud. Registration number 8386. Please vote. [[16:39:33]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider including in the agenda of the day-to-day draft a decision on measures to improve the system for the provision of public social services to the population at the local level. I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day's draft regulation, registration number 8148. Please vote. For 246. Questions are included in the agenda. Yes, the word for the report is given to National Deputy Fomenko Catherine Alexandrovni. To prepare for the responsibilities of the head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovni Committee. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u40	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The state of funding local budgets from limited budgets is gradually becoming critical, and we all know that. Of the State’s delegated powers, only the full amount of wages is financed, in fact the purchase of medicines and foodstuffs is not financed. The situation requires immediate intervention. Of course, it is a strategic task to finally develop social standards that will form the basis for the development of health, education, and social protection standards. But every year we gave these assignments to Kabmin, and he ignored our suggestions every year. So as early as June, the Head of the Supreme Council created a task force that finally received the task of calculating how much local budgets are needed, depending on the provision of standards, the quality and the provision of social services. I want to say that we've calculated these costs, and according to our calculations, the cost of education has been underestimated by a factor of one and a half times, almost twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice, twice. I mean, local budgets didn't get 10.7 billion budget. I mean, we didn't get any support from the Cabinet of Ministers back then. When the Head of the Supreme Council sent these bills to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, neither in the first reading of the State Budget Act nor in the second reading. I want to say that the budget committee, I'm very grateful to my colleagues, I fully supported the work group's budget, and before the first reading, the Supreme Council voted, a partial amount of $5 billion was made to increase the funding of local budgets. Dear fellows! I ask you very much to support this decision because, first of all, it strongly recommends that the Cabinet take into account the accounts of the working group and the budget committee and increase the funding of local budgets to 5 billion in 2006. The Budget Committee will ensure that the budget conclusions are carried out in 2 and 3 readings, which will increase the substantial funding of the powers delegated by the State. And the third. The working group finally, together with the government, the National Deputies, develop these national social standards, because we don't have them in the state today. And when we went to the ministries of profile, we were given an answer from both the Minosvets and the Health Minochrons, which, "unfortunately, the Honourable Catherine of Alexandria, as the heads of the working group we're responding to, we don't have these standards." So we're going to propose that we vote on this decision, which is finally going to be a strategic task to develop these social standards and, as a task of that sort of thing. the tactical value already in the 2006 budget significantly increases the funding of local budgets. Because it's the worst today, and we all know that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you. We've already taken the first step, we've increased the 2005 budget by half a billion local budget funding, let's take the second step, by 5 billion we'll increase the funding of local budgets in the 2006 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u41	Please ask questions. Dear colleagues, sign up if you have one. Three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u42	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklesenk, who understands this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u43	The distinguished Ekaterina Alexandrovna, first of all, thank you for your patriotic attitude towards the regions, and I am surprised by the Kabmin, who finds money to raise his own wages and does not find money to make the village a little more alive. First of all, I would like this money to be directed to the village, to the village communes. We don't have furloughs, we have entire district centers, large settlements without gas, no water, no roads. Therefore, thank you very much for the draft of this law. And secondly, I would like to look at the deputies who will not vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u44	Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u45	Alexander Bandurka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u46	Catherine Alexandrovna, you have convincingly demonstrated that a decision must be voted on. But I wanted to ask this question: what is the meaning of the concept of "public social services" in the decree for which we should vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u47	Thank you for asking. The point is that four years ago, the Supreme Council Act on State Social Guarantees and State Social Standards was adopted. That's the law that gave our Ministry of Profiles the task of finally developing these standards of socio-cultural services in every field: education, health and so on and so forth. Sadly, these tasks have not yet been accomplished. That is, every Ukrainian citizen should know how much he is entitled to health care, how much he has the right to receive budgetary security, in all budgetary institutions, that is what this is about, and that is what is defined as the standards for the provision of socio-cultural services to Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u48	Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to ask you a very short question. It's an interesting decision, but it's just pressure, political pressure on the government, proper political pressure, when we adopt a budget that's already in our field, we have it now. As you can see the mechanisms for reacting and implementing this decision, if it's actually about the body of the basic law, it's about the budget for the next year, about the paths of development. I totally agree with you, and I say, not even in two or two, you have to increase the sport by ten. And medicine isn't one and eight, and education, and so on, but then we have to predict 10 billion. You know, assuming 10 billion plus, you have to predict where to get it from. I want to ask you what kind of mechanism we're going to continue and why we're going to write that we're still commissioning, we're going to authorize a group.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u50	Thank you for asking, Yuri Anatolyovich. Right now, we have the right to make this decision relevant, because right now, according to the Budget Code, between the first and second readings, the government has given us the opportunity to develop the State Budget Act 2006 for 10 days and we will vote on December 1st in the second reading. And that's when the government finally has to determine whether it will support the proposals of both the budget committee and the Supreme Council, which were adopted in the first reading. And they have the opportunity together to reconcile these positions and December 1st as a joint position of the budgetary committee, the Supreme Council and the government to invest these additional 5 billion to finance local budgets. That's the first part of your question. The second part, where do you get this money? Today, we have the opportunity to take these funds. First, the government is provided by the State Budget for Second Reading Act, that 3 billion will be a transitional surplus of funds, and it is on the basis of this transitional balance that the so-called Strategic Fund of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be formed. We asked questions, please tell me, who has defined the idea that this is a fund, who will manage it, and who will provide the funds from this fund? Unfortunately, we have the answer that this Cabinet of Ministers will only develop a position on how to use the funds of this fund. This is the first one, and I think this is the source that could go to support our local budgets. Second rule. You know that the 2005 budget will be overturned. According to the General Fund of the State Budget, today at a pre-calculation rate of about one and a half billion, maybe a billion and a half billion. I think this could also be a source of funding for local budgets. So, Yuri Anatoliyovich, we have sources today, we only need the political will of our government today to support the proposals of the Budget Committee, the Supreme Council -- and finally to make our hospitals, our schools, our territories, our villages and our villages more secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u51	Thank you. Catherine of Alexandria, time is up. Have a seat, please. The co - report invites the head of the Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna Committee on Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council Regulation on Measures to Improve the System of Provision of State Social Services was launched on September 15, 2005. This was a period that practically coincided with the date of submission of the document to the Government of Ukraine, the draft State Budget Act 2006. So I can say that our budget conclusions contain a rather rigid norm, which does not recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers take into account the proposals of the working group for the determination of the budget resources for the provision of delegated powers, and clearly formulates a more precise proposal: to determine the size of the financial standards of budgetary security on the basis of cost-effective and quality standards for the provision of social services. I mean, it's almost completely taken into account a proposal that was prepared by a working group led by Catherine Alexander Fomenco, who we have on the committee one of the best experts in the field of local budgets. It should also be borne in mind that the draft regulation was considered at a committee meeting before the adoption of the budgetary conclusions and also before the Rules Committee's conclusions were reached, which made several additional proposals to us. The Committee supports the adoption of a decision with a view to prioritizing the adoption of the budget, i.e. the introduction of a system of value and quality standards, to prioritise the activities of central and local authorities. Moreover, since today we have a period between the first and the second readings, the additional commission of the committee – to endure this priority is also correct. The next thing you know, I think Catherine Alexandrovna will agree to this proposal as the author of such a draft decision. To adopt this decision in paragraphs 1, 3 and 5, because the Kabmin recommendations here will be less harsh than our budget conclusions, which we voted in the hall with a total of 270 votes. It is proposed to support this draft decision and to take into account, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, paragraphs 1, 3 and 5. I can say that, unfortunately, the government did not agree with our proposals set out in the budget resolution. Once again, there are schemes for so-called toolboxes, and I'm sure because it doesn't increase the resources of local budgets, we're going to define at least 5 billion as the principle of the position of the entire Supreme Council for the second reading. And I think the hall will agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u53	Yes. Dear colleagues, perhaps we are. Katerina Alexandrovna, do you agree to delete the second item? Please, microphone, then we can vote and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u54	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm still asking that the second point be left behind, and I agree that we can remove four. Because the working group that worked, and these were representatives of local self-government, were 7 cities, areas, and they worked with us in the summer, and they insisted on the text of this decree. And that's only why I'm going to ask you to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! Please, Sophia Pavlovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u56	Dear Catherine of Alexandria! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I can tell you that the position of Catherine Alexandrovna Fomenko is crucial when we make decisions about local budgets. But when the law is already in our possession, there is nothing we can recommend to them in this case. They've already passed the law in a second reading. If this were to happen in a few days before the law was passed in the second reading, it's the right position, and now it's going to mean that we have to get it back to the Kabmin. You know, we made a decision to look at and prepare for the second reading without going back to the Cabinet, at least on the committee. So if we take the second paragraph now, we're just going to write it to the Cabinet of Ministers, who doesn't have any authority over this law anymore and can't influence this law. And you and I will certainly consider this position when we accept the document in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We may write: “Recommend not the Cabinet of Ministers” and continue by text, but “to entrust the Committee on Budget Issues” because we have a budget to take into account accordingly. No warning? With that in mind, dear colleagues, let's make a decision. I am voting on the proposal: “With the second paragraph being clarified, to entrust the Committee on Budget Issues” and to continue to adopt the draft as a whole as a decision. Please vote. [[16:55:40]] For 278 Decision adopted by the Decree. Dear colleagues! We need to include in the agenda a bill amending the Law on Telecommunications, registration number 8255 for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:56:32]] For 295 Decision taken. Rapporteur, Ukrainian National Deputy Viktor Gorbachev. Please. Is there a Victor Gorbachev? Yeah. Get Mikoli Kuharczuk ready from the committee. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u58	Respectable colleagues, the President-in-Office, in accordance with article 5 of article 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution, are solely determined by the laws of Ukraine on the basis of the organization, the exploitation of communications. Draft Ukrainian Law amending the Telecommunications Act concerning the free receipt of invoices for telecommunications services provided, aimed primarily at protecting the rights of consumers. It is necessary to prohibit the payment for the decryption of the service by an operator, a telecommunications provider, as part of the protection of consumer rights. This is the protection of almost all users of services. The users of Skretelecom are now receiving a receipt for the payment of services, where the same services are not sufficiently described. There's only the city and the number of calls in this town and the amount to be paid. And the exact date of the call, the place, the number of minutes and the payment for the same minutes can be obtained only for an additional fee. If "Smarthead" is a rather small amount, other telephone operators, both stationary and mobile, have to pay about a hundred bracelets to get the decryption for the services provided. That is, not all consumers have the opportunity to verify the correctness of payment for the services provided. A new version of article 32, paragraph 16, of the Telecommunications Act is proposed. In particular, a grant is offered from the operator, the provider of the telecommunication service accounts. At the request of the consumer, the accrued amount for the services provided should be deciphered. According to article 18, paragraph 1, of the Consumer Protection Act, the consumer is entitled to receive the necessary accessible and reliable and timely information on goods, services and services, which will enable them to be selected knowingly and competently. The same article provides that information on goods, jobs, services should include, inter alia, price data, conditions and rules for the acquisition of goods, works performed, services provided. [[paragraph six, paragraph one]] The adoption of the Law amending the Law on Telecommunications will allow consumers to verify that payment for telecommunications services provided is correct. This will strengthen the real protection of the rights of consumers — millions of our fellow countrymen. The Profile Committee and the Scientific and Expert Management believe that the draft law can be taken as a basis as a result of the first reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u59	Thank you. From the committee, please. Who will report? Mikola Kuharczuk has gone somewhere. But there is a committee decision to take as a basis. Shall we discuss this bill? Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Ten minutes. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u60	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National MPs. This is an extremely important bill that applies to everyone today. I'd like to support this bill. I think that the protection of consumers is exactly what the Constitution of Ukraine is in this case. And what's happening right now is a violation of the rights of every Ukrainian citizen. So I would ask and propose at the end of the second sentence, article 32, paragraph 16, of the draft law after the words "at the request of the consumer, the amount paid for the services provided should be deciphered" to add the words "with a description of the address of the telecommunications service of the date of the start and end of the communication session, the amount of money to be paid." And there's more. We have now consulted with the National Deputy Nadrag. And we see that a lot of questions arise in people who talk, we make advances, and then this advance, if we don't use it this month, it just burns up, it just robs people. So we offer this proposal to article 68, which will sound so. The order of accounts for telecommunication services. Add a paragraph to article 68, paragraph 1. "In the event of a failure to use the advance during one accounting period, the balance shall be transferred to the next accounting period, unless otherwise provided by the contract. It is forbidden for the operator or provider to sign off on the remainder of the amount of the subscriber's costs." The introduction of such a rule would make it impossible to continue to abuse, and more specifically to rob the operators of their subscribers. You know, we've been holding back competition on this market the whole time. Absolutely artificial. And today we pay for a lot of services at about the same level as they pay in Central European countries without having that level of service without having those competitors. When I am a small Bulgarian, I have 11 mobile operators. We held back all of this just to keep the oligarchic clans from defending our interests. So the adoption of such a law with such additions as I just said would be in the interest of the Ukrainian people. And each of you, when you come home, will say, “I did not just sit in the Supreme Council today.” Thank you for your attention and for your support. And the committee then I'm asking you to take into account the amendments that I just said, consider them already submitted to the second reading, because I'm convinced that we're going to accept these amendments now, they're aimed at protecting the rights of our citizens. And thank Gorbachev for making the right law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u61	Thank you. Ivan Hare, please. Yes, there is no John the Hare. Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u62	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I thank you so much for giving me your word and for giving me the national MPs and those who listen to our broadcast. For me, by the way, the bill itself has such meaning. Well, first of all, I don't think that's the main problem -- finding out how much we pay on mobile phones, because mobile phones are used by people who have money. I mean the phones that most Ukrainian citizens use are ordinary phones, and really, this is Mr. Desertenk's noble bill, the leader of the faction, that Skretelek should be able to decipher who pays for what. But the main problem, the well-respected national electorate and those who listen to us, is not that. I think that we should urgently, Vladimir Mihajlovich, submit a bill immediately so that all the town hall services will necessarily decipher it for ordinary people who live on wages and pensions for which they pay public services in general. I have information mostly on Kiev. And people don't get hot water, do they? — a. or per year. I have cases where the elevators don't work, right? – and the special organizations that own these houses are on Obolona, I have this case, 8 elevators don't work. Yeah? They use this situation to make people die. Three days of grave lies with Grandma's body, right? - The neighbors can't take it because the elevator doesn't work. At the same time, these unfortunate people pay for community services on time. This is outrageous! It's a betrayal of the people. And I believe that the leader of the NDP can request an immediate bill so that he doesn't lose his initiative, that every rogue from the JECAC will decipher what a simple person is paying for. Finally, I was given such interesting advice today. Every time I speak as the leader of the Christian Liberal Party to those who listen to our speeches, that is, the majority of the population of Ukraine. Call your loved ones! But I've been tipped off by a lot of important things, and I don't have a phone. Write them a letter at least, because it's very important and important what we can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u63	Ivan Hare, please. John the Rabbit takes it off. Yuri Solomatin. He's taking it off. Valérie Konovaluk. He's taking off his speech. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A proposal is made for a committee to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications for free receipt of invoices for the provision of telecommunications services. Registration number 8255. Please vote. [[17:06:55]] For 342 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda a draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on the chief editor of the newspaper "Communist Donbas" Georgi Popov, damage by the arson of foreign citizen Valiz Arfus and other facts of pressure on media agents. There are two numbers here, but I'm asking this as one question. What? But I'm asking you one question about getting into the day-to-day register. What? No, it's just one minute. I'll take care of it, dear colleagues. And, honourable colleagues, since this is about two different, two different documents, I'm going to put it separately on the vote for inclusion. The vote on the inclusion of the daily draft decision, registration number 8450, on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on the chief editor of the newspaper "Communist of Ukraine" George Popov, by the incineration of the property of a foreign citizen, Valíz Arfus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u64	"Communist Donbas," I said. And other facts of pressure on media outlets. There are two documents: 8450 and 8450-1, which were filed by Pravdenko. So, with three minutes of motivation, please sign in. Three minutes of motive. If we take the first one, then we will, absorb it, and there will be no need to consider it. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u65	Please give Simonenko the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u66	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. Further escalation of tension from the point of view of political persecution and abuse continues, and in this case, the physical beating of our comrades, members of our party, in this case, is the second secretary of the party's district committee, our colleague of the past vocation, and he is the editor of the newspaper, which is the official in Donbas newspaper "Communist Donbasa" Georgi Popo. And also everything that happened to a citizen of foreign Wallis Arfus. We've proposed a bill, one draft regulation 8450, to create a commission to investigate what's going on in our country right now. So, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I ask you to put in the way that we, the drafters of the bill, have made this decision, to put the vote to the vote before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u68	Kirilo Polishchuk, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u69	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u70	Alexander Pecklushenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, everything related to the media must be under the special control of Parliament, so if our Communist colleagues, who have always been trusted and trusted by our faction, speak and ask this question, then it is. It is necessary to consider carefully, and if this is true, to make it clear in Ukraine that it is impossible to beat anyone and journalists first. And I want to look at those who don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u72	Alexander Bandurka, please, the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u73	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the Volodymyr Litvin People's Party Dear colleagues, it's about two different things. The issue of the attack on the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "Communist Dobasa" Georgi Popova is a political issue and needs to be supported. Mr. Valiz Arfush writes about the royal son's backgrounds and that's quite different things, so let's take the first part, this is the investigation into the beating of George Popov, and the second part is the burning of the car and the clarification of Arfush's relationship with the President's son, whether he's investigating a criminal case in the prosecutor's office or where it's there, the militia will be dragged into custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u74	Yuri Klukkowski, please “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, please. stick to it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u75	Thank you very much. I may have developed an opinion just expressed by our colleague Alexander Markovich Bandurka. I agree, and I support the establishment of a commission to investigate the beating of a Communist newspaper editor on Donbas. This is a matter that requires social attention. But I can't understand why every paparazzi has to be included in political casualties if they're just doing half-criminal or all-criminal activity. And most of all, my warning to the name of question and determination. The title of the decree states that there are already facts of political persecution. I want to ask the project’s authors: Who set these facts? If you want to consider something, let us talk not about facts that can only be established by the court but about cases that raise some doubts. And let's call these cases directly, not investigate everything that's going on in the state. It's a little too much for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let's do this: I'll put these arrivals and registrations to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. No warning? Is on the vote: on the inclusion before. What? What? Well, the thing is, there's a draft regulation one in which. Yuri Bogdanovich! There's a draft decision -- there's two facts there and there's a second draft decision, where there's one fact. But in order of registration, I'm going to put them to the vote. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision No. 8450: on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the attack on the chief editor of the newspaper "Communist Donbas" George Popov, the damage by the burning of property of foreign national Valiz Arfus and other facts of the pressure on members of the media. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:14:22]] For 256 They've been placed in the agenda so that political passions won't be stirred up here right now. I'm voting for this ruling, registration number 8450. Please vote. [[17:14:49]] For 260 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Dear colleagues, it took 150 votes to make a decision here. I think it's a technical problem here. The Communist faction – 56, “Ukraine” – 52, “Ukraine’s People’s Party” – 22, “Ukraine” – 4, “Timoshenko Block – 24, “SPU” – 25, “Ukrainian People’s Party” – 7, “SDPU” – 19, “National Block – 19, “Trust of the People” – 3, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 14, “National Movement of Ukraine – 1, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 1, “non-fractional” –13. Yes. What? And the second we can't, then she's the first. Please, Sergey Pravdenko microphone as the author of the draft decision. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u77	Thank you. We're a profile committee, and there's a committee position, and I have to report it. We believe in the committee that paparazzi is not journalistic, it has to do with freedom of speech of no one, it is looking into the castle well, as said Comrade Majakowski: “To look into the well at a third of the saliva glotya el, without end, at other people’s affairs and beds.” Thus, the committee was almost unanimously opposed. But we read that Georgia Popova and other facts of pressure on media outlets and continue to believe that this is correct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. Boris Ilchi Olinik, please microphone. Now let's move on to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u79	Already? Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend! I would like to remind you that the Children's Library of Panas Mirny was burned in Poltava. Maybe there's something to hold on to, because we need to find out who did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u80	Thank you. I think we will now prepare on the basis of your signature a request to the relevant law enforcement structures to pay attention to this issue and provide relevant information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! It is up to the vote to include in the agenda a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of control over the execution of Mittal Steel, the owner of the metal combination “Cruvoristal” of the terms of the agreement with the State Property Fund of Ukraine. For inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:17:47]] For-195 The decision is not taken. Please state your motives for three minutes. Please, Peter Simonenko, then Vadim Gurov, then Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u81	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable comrades! First. The faction will vote to create this commission, although I would like to ask you to consider the following. According to the facts of the investigation, it looks like a simulation of activity. Because, apart from the communists of the city party organization, no one has raised the workers' factory Krivorozstal to fight against this plant and not to betray national interests. I want to warn the factory workers, none of you are going to get an increase in wages. Inevitably reducing the workforce, and inevitably lowering the social infrastructure in the local budget, would destroy the social infrastructure. Inevitably, the same owner is now being tried to sell HOCOR, and then all other metalworking combinations will be affected. To that end, we now have the Property Fund, and let it be held personally and criminally responsible for not meeting the conditions of privatization today. Just like we have a Privatization Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u82	Yes, Vadim Gurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, in order for this not to happen, Simonenko only said, and this commission must be established. Yes, we have a privatization commission, but you'll take into account that it's well overburdened, and those issues, which were with the treaty, there's pay, there's a question of reduction, there's social issues, there's environmental issues, there's production issues. That is why I believe that Parliament must take this issue under strict control, and thus, what we have just talked about and what Simonenko has said, we must set a screen rather than quietly observe what will happen. The power of Parliament is to ensure that any investor we have in Ukraine is subject to the laws of Ukraine. This is stated in the additional privatization requirements for Krivorostali. The issue of wages will be resolved soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u84	Lilia Grigorovitch, please. I'm on the list. I'm on the list. Well, I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u85	Please pass the word to Alexander Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u86	Alexander Tkalenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u87	Tuckenko, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have a policy of double standards. On the Conciliation Board a few weeks ago, it was decided to organize the number of temporary investigation committees. I think there were 42 of them back then. We don't know whether we've arranged them or not. Today we are looking at two committees. Instead, the faction of "Our Ukraine", the People's Movement, made repeated statements about the day-to-day issue of the establishment of a temporary commission on the Black Sea fleet. We're looking for funds in salaries, pensions, social contributions, and in eight years of unorganized relations between Ukraine and Russia with regard to the Black Sea fleet, we've lost about 20 billion. Please also put this question to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We made a decision today, and today we made a decree to organize the activities of temporary investigators and special commissions of the Supreme Council. There we decided that a number of commissions would stop our activities, and we would listen to others, and after we heard their reports, we would also stop their activities. Others who keep busy are still working. If you make a draft decision, and the committee will consider it, it'll make any decision, even a negative one, we'll put it to a vote. Please make a draft decision. We're going to have to put him to a vote, even if it doesn't appeal to everyone. Please. What? Now we're exchanging with motivations, not factions, honourable colleagues. So let me get this straight. No one may have taken an interest in this decree. We exchanged thoughts. Everything? We traded for three minutes. Well, please take the word. Rudzkowski, word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u89	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Ladies and gentlemen, this question did not arise in an empty place. We have a special monitoring commission that is obliged to monitor compliance with legislation on matters of privatization. Let her control it. And Gurov is the person who did everything to get the "Crowrystall" sold, and now he wants to wash his face in Bloody Rose. And that's why he's going through this commission, he says I'm going to be in control. So it was Gurov who broke the adoption of the law prohibiting the privatisation of the “Criminals”. Instead of adopting the law and giving up 10 percent honestly to the Horn of the Curve, it is only one percent. It takes three billion to rebuild the infrastructure in this city. The next thing you know, everything needs to be done to keep the "Criminal" state, not to control it the way you want it to. Do not deceive people. Do not do your own thing on a foreign mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u90	Thank you. Microphone. Please, Teeth. And we'll figure it out. Teeth, please. Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u91	Valentin Zubov, Yulia Timoshenko Block, All-Ukrainian Association of Batkivščina. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I understand Rudzkowski. He's obviously not out of Crimson Valley yet, so he doesn't want to be in control anymore. There are two problems. One of them is the Supreme Council's Monitoring Commission, which is responsible for doing these things, and there is a proposal to establish a special commission. I fully agree with those colleagues who claim that given the very serious importance of this issue to the fate of Ukraine and its economy, we must establish such a commission necessarily because everything that has undertaken is committed. Commitments have been made to renovate the plant; they must be met. Without our control, the issue becomes problematic without the control of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I would like to support this draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u92	Dear National MPs, now Vadim Gurov, and then Rudzkowski's replica, and we will be determined. Vadim Gur as the author of the draft decision, he is entitled to a plea. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u93	Dear friends! Well, usually when a hat burns, that's what he's talking about. The point is one thing. Yes, and it would probably be a state-owned enterprise if the State, in the face of the Property Fund, and you know who was the head of the Property Fund, ran the business. And when it went bad, in the beginning and in the supply, and in the sale, it went for only one faction. That's why we couldn't let it happen. Therefore, if you continue to do so in an abusive tone, you will be responsible for these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u94	Rudkowski, the replica. The name was Rudzkowski. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u95	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. I hope that you will keep your threats to yourself and use nothing further. This is the first time. Secondly, one of the runners who mentioned my last name, I want to say that the Socialists did not influence the business activity of this company, and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, gave personal orders as Prime Minister to which companies and the amount of metal should be allocated. And we don't pay attention to the fact that she could have been involved in corruption. So we need to say one thing: If there are state enterprises, let us manage them effectively. And they should ensure that these enterprises work for the people living in this region to develop infrastructure, as all state-owned enterprises do, as Crioviristal did. And when we sell the company, it won't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've only just been exchanged for reasons. May I have your attention, please? We've just finished with our motives. I put a proposal here to return to the consideration of: the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Control of the Implementation of the Company Mittal Steel, the owner of the Metallurgical Combined “Cruvoristal”, the terms of the Agreement with the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. Registration number 8369. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:27:52]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Communists are 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 10, the People's Party is 444, Our Ukraine is 1, Block Timoshenko is 24, SPU is 0, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, the SDPU is 15, the National Block is 19, the People's Trust is 2, the Reforms and Order is 0, the Ukraine is 10, the Ukrainian People's Movement is 0, the industrialists and entrepreneurs are 11, the Postfactional 11. Dear colleagues, for three minutes, please sign up for your motives. Please, three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Alexander Masenko. Then Ludmila Kirichenko will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u98	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u99	Dear voters, dear colleagues! At first, after Maidan, we saw with you who was in power, and each of them had already been both a corrupter and an oligarch. And by creating a coalition, nationalists and socialists have already shown on specific examples how they're going to get more from one another, let's say, profits from one enterprise or another. I would like to give another example where, following the Communist faction's initiative, Ilić's Metallurgical Combine was also privatized by the labour force. Even though we have been criticized for several years by socialists who have abused the truth, where they acknowledge that the best business is. That's why I'm addressing everyone today. Let's support this decision on the creation of a commission and finally today we'll deal with national interests in the protection of labour rights. Otherwise, they'll stretch the last one. They're stretching because of the property heist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u100	Please, Ludmila Kirichenko. Turn on the microphone. Next, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u101	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich! Dear colleagues! You know, despite the whole dispute that took place today in the commission, I think the conversation is purely populist. Why? Because article 10 of the law, you know, created a special commission of control on privatization. The main function of this commission is to monitor compliance with Ukrainian legislation on privatization. Tell me, please, what can be controlled-- yeah? - when only 29 numbers under the sales contract will be the first tranche. the next 29 to the second tranche. And only since March of next year can we talk about any control by the buyer. I do not think that this is really a purely populist statement and it is appropriate to set up a special monitoring commission on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u102	Yes, Victor Bunny, please, microphone. People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u103	Extravaganza
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u104	Basil Nadrag, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u105	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! We're with you today, there are witnesses, political deceptions. Not anymore. Five minutes ago, a representative of the Socialist Party tore his clothes and proved that they were for no government and folklore to go away, that they were against privatization, that they were ready to control. Little has been said that they are ready to support this commission. I'm not talking to the people in the room who saw it from the polls. I appeal to those who listen to the television and listen to the radio, so my dearly beloved, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, despite a five-minute statute of limitations on its desire to control the money, has not voted in favour of this commission. Lies and demagogies are here, not anywhere. That is why we must return to this issue and create it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u106	Dear, distinguished national, distinguished national MPs, distinguished national MPs, I would ask all of you to speak of your own, each of you about your political line. Please, who's going to be there? Who Will Take the Replica? Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, not the first time in this room we'll listen, I would say, such half-literate, and actually very illiterate performances by Nadra with attacks on the faction of socialists. We clearly and clearly stated why we do not vote. Because there is someone to control in the Supreme Council to consider the privatisation of the “Criminals”. And Mr. Nadrag, who is horribly visible and wants to earn dividends there, I think he knows very well how he got, which way he got here, which way he served. It's just like he was left behind, that's all. And may he live with this glory. I think the people here are getting a good look at who is serving the people and who, as a bush towner, has remained a bush towner.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u108	I, my fellow Members, am asking for one side and the other, show tolerance, demonstrate, please, the presence of the mind. Let's be friends with the mind. Please don't call your name, please, Nadragha.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u109	Vassili Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block, Lugansk Region, 104th District. I also report, respectable, serving the people. And those who swore today five minutes ago that they would set up a commission to control the people's money did not give a single vote. The Toothbeat was right, saying that you promise one thing and you do the other. And that's what the communists and everyone else are talking about. Shame on you, dear socialists. So sudden and cynical.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u110	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. I want to prove to your acquaintance. I was told about standards here. Dear colleagues, on the sixth tenth, we discussed the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the implementation of the basic status and conditions of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. And the decision was not made. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators with proposals by the President of Ukraine, well, please, from 29.10.2005, registration number 4125. Please, the Ministry of Justice. Who will report? Minister of Justice Sergey Petrovich Headate. While the Minister of Justice is on his way to the rostrum, I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, all to calm down, all to remain tolerant. We still need to work on this cadence. We need to make responsible decisions, please, I urge your tolerance, your understanding. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u111	Mr. President, honourable national MPs, this is a law on the status of investigators that the Supreme Council approved on October 4th of this year following a re-examination of the President's proposals and was not signed. I'll draw all the President's remarks into three groups, into three categories. This morning there was a heated debate in the Supreme Council on the issue of pensions and social benefits. So in this law, it's a very illustrative law, from this very problem, because it offers practically unlimited pensions for investigators. He offers exactly what other authorities have been through when the investigator reports his earnings, including all the allowances, the extras, including the bonuses, during the last month. And you know how you can make a month's worth of money and get an 80 percent pension from the amount you've received from the investigator in the last month. I don't think anyone in this room is going to be able to continue to support these ideas, and even more so, they're not budgeted. The second group of President's comments is that the issues that are proposed in this law are already settled. They're settled, we've got 4 organs in Ukraine, 4 different offices where investigators work: in the D.A., in the D.A., in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and in the Tax Administration. One of them is military, the other is civilian. And all of these issues are already regulated by Ukrainian laws accordingly: the prosecutor's office, the tax office, and so on. So to adopt a law that unifies them and that brings everyone to the pile and does something on average, without cancelling the specificity of the service of investigators in these 4 institutions, without reforming them when there is no body of inquiry that is supposed to be, and not only is it appropriate, but it is confusing the situation, because it regulates the issues that are already settled. And the Constitution requires that the Supreme Council, it says that the Supreme Council adopts the law, the law defines the organization and order of investigation, we don't have it, we have it in separate laws. This is duplication and reproduction of norms that are in very many laws, and I'm not going to count them. And the last. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u112	Allow the minister to finish his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u113	And that's the law, without cancelling what's in the Criminal Procedure Code, in the laws that regulate these organs that I call here are the norms that confuse even more the situation, except that they duplicate, they are, and they're also introducing a different order. And if they don't cancel, they're going to introduce the situation completely incomprehensiblely, because they're going to contradict each other. On this basis, the President proposed that this law be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u114	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. Maria Andriyovna Markusz, deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u115	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You are covered by the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Investigators, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 October 2005, with proposals from the President. Two decisions were taken by the committee on this matter. The first decision. He recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the President of Ukraine's proposals for the Act on the Status of Investigators and re-adopt the prescribed law as of October 4, 2005, no less than 2/3 votes from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition. In the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not adopt the decision proposed by the Committee, the first paragraph recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the prescribed law in the new edition. Dear colleagues! I urge you to overcome the President's veto for such reasons. For the second time on behalf of the President, there is essentially a promise of this law. Strangely, first of all, it's because the President personally supports this law. On September 23, this year, the President of Ukraine, at a working meeting with the heads of ministries and other central executives, stressed the need for the adoption of this law. Moreover, this law is in line with the Transitional Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. As to the need for its adoption, the position of the Supreme Court of Ukraine was also expressed in a letter from the Head of the Supreme Court to the President. There must be consistency in the declaration of the need to reform Ukraine's law enforcement authorities, and this is not the case when this law is promised. The most important task of the Ukrainian people in the elections is not being carried out in order to carry out the tasks that were at Midan, and the same promise is not being fulfilled. Moreover, this incoherence is also strange because the reflection of the signature on the remarks and on the accompanying letter of these observations appears to be completely consistent in the smallest detail and the comparison of these images with the President's signature on other documents shows some difference in the minor details. And that difference is completely natural. Thus, most likely, a facsimile image of the President's signature was applied when this law was promised. This is a gross violation of the Constitution, because then why is the President faxed during his personal consideration of this law? Dear colleagues, I am very pleased to vote you in favour of overcoming the President's veto. If it is not overcome, then I ask you to adopt the law in a new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u116	Thank you. Maria Andriyevna, thank you. Dear colleagues, we will go according to. Please, Bandur's microphone. Maria Andriyevna, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u118	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, this is the case when the President's proposals need to be supported. We are significantly increasing funding in the draft budget for all law enforcement agencies, including investigators. The authorities can handle the issue of pay on their own. That's one thing. The other one. We have completed the work on the Criminal Procedure Code, signed by the authors and referred it to the Supreme Council for consideration today, where these issues, which we have tried to resolve through the Status of Investigators Act, are to a large extent taken into account in addition to what is already in the current legislation. And one more thing. The following apparatus is not used for the purpose of today. He should be returned to investigate crimes rather than to work for orders. Thank you. So once again, the President's proposals need to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u119	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear national deputies, distinguished investigators who can hear us. You poor people want to move away from the pressure of the executive, the ministers, the heads of the tax administration, the attorney general? Now we've seen Taktashov's rebellion, which says they pushed me, said they did. I'd be independent of process, I'd act like that. You and I have foreseen this processual independence. Without informing the President, they are now faxing to veto. Dear friends, please, let's either beat the veto, or we'll take it in a new edition. But there has to be a law on the status of investigators. The next one must be independent. It must depend only on the Constitution and the law. Then there will be no errands. Then the dictatorship of the Constitution and the law will prevail. I call on you all. This applies to everyone not to be used by investigators for political reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u121	The President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Status of Investigators Act is the first to vote in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. I'm voting on this proposal. [[17:45:32]] For-74. The decision is not taken. A second proposal, a committee proposal, is put to the vote. Overcoming the President's veto for the Ukrainian Status of Investigators Act. Registration number 4125. Overcoming the President's veto. Here comes the vote, please. [[17:46:05]] For 242 The decision is not taken. The Committee's third proposal for the adoption of Ukraine's Pro Status of Investigators Act, with partial consideration for the President's proposals, is put to the vote. In a new edition like this. Registration number 4125. Please vote. Here comes the vote, Your Honor, please calm down. [[17:46:40]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24.10.2005, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 4475-1. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Vitaly Vasilovich Lisovenko. Prepare Alexander Bondarchuk from the committee. Please, if I may, briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u122	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 October, we believe that the Constitution of Ukraine does not fully correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as certain laws of Ukraine. For example, part two of article 95 of the Constitution determines that the size and purpose of directing the budget and expenditure from the State Budget is determined solely by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question. Thus, the proposal voted in the law on the purpose of linking some government budget spending annually to a percentage of GDP does not correspond to this article, we believe. In addition, I would like to point out that if we adopt Ukrainian law in the national MPs, next year we need to determine 11 billion dollars in order to comply with this rule of law. This will lead us to cut a lot of social pay from wages, as well as the previous calculation of inflation may increase to 15-20% this year, next year. Also, the law’s position and the possibility of Kambin’s involvement in non-budgetary and special taxes is not consistent with current legislation. It is referring to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which clearly states that all government budget revenues should be reflected in the State budget. As well as expenses. It is also not in line with the Budget Code’s claim that this law should be. to take effect on 1 January 2006. This is also not in line with the budget code. What is proposed? It is proposed that the current law of Ukraine be supplemented with these important things. First of all, it is mandatory to invest the corresponding expenditure of the State budget in the payment of these savings every year, in each budget. Secondly, to establish that these expenses will be protected. That's what we're proposing. To assign Kabmin by March 1st next year to complete the inventory and offer the Supreme Council a program to get out of this situation. In how many years these savings will be repaid. Here's the deal. The request is for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u123	Thank you. There's no time for motive. Please, Alexander Bondarczuk, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u124	Dear President, the People's Deputies! Our dispute with the President on the solution of the important problem of the return of valuable deposits has been ongoing for more than half a year. I would like to recall that in this room we supported the draft amendments to the return law on 2 April 284 votes in favour, and the draft law was supported for the first time, which substantially increases the amounts that need to be returned annually to the population. The President then vetoed it. Then again on 4 October, you and I discussed this issue once again, we failed to overcome the veto, because the team that supported the President in the elections, the orange factions, except one, and therefore we were unable to overcome the veto at that time. But once again, in the new edition, taking into account in general, virtually all the President's proposals, which did not affect the substance of the proposals, we once again supported it by 284 votes. Today, you are invited to consider a draft regulation drawn up by the Committee on Social Issues on policies to overcome the veto of the President. Our arguments: first, the current executive power has promised, when it has been torn to power in Maidan, that the President's second decree will be to return the population's contributions. To date, 600,000 dollars are returned annually in the budget. At this rate, it's a go. The Minister of Finance, you just need to know the arithmetic, so it's over 600 million. If we settle at this rate, then the debt owed to citizens is over 200 years. That bill, which is now being introduced, reduces the deadline by about 4-5 times. 11 billion is your reading again. I don't know what you think. We have 10% of GDP, 0.5% of GDP is 2.5 billion plus 10% of GDP growth -- that could still be 1. And what we're going to do is we're going to be 4 billion, not 11. And in that case, it'll take more than 30 years, we'll be done. After all, we have to keep Majdan's promises. We, you're going to celebrate tomorrow or when there, in the coming days, the anniversary of Maidan, the revolution, let's do it. And I call on the orange factions to be consistent. They promised people to pay back the money. Vote for the project that was put forward by the communists, Simonenko, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u125	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Please sit down. Yes, Yuri Klukkowski, please, the representative of the President of Ukraine, asks for the floor. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u126	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine” faction. I want to go to those who are initiating such proposals. Prepare them at least a little more professionally, for if thousands and millions are confused from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, what approach can be discussed? Well, look, the bill offers absolutely fantastic sources of funding for these things. I want to emphasize that the President is not rejecting the idea itself, and more than that, he's been working instead of initiating the bill, and he's making proposals for a real mechanism to raise debt payments. That's why I call on those who really want to pay off their debts, and they don't want to dress up in the rostrum, confusing thousands with millions, to vote in favour of the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u127	Three minutes. Please sign up. Three minutes. Please sign up. With a motive, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Chicanov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u128	. Pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u129	Yes, please, Mikhailo Dobkin, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u130	I would like to remind the current authorities that one of the promises that was, one of the main themes of the orange path, was the return of their savings to the people. They got money for the Crimson Coastal, they didn't pay back their deposits. And today, what the people's deputies are trying to do legislatively in order to at least ensure that in the foreseeable future, the people's money is returned to the population, trying to get away with it. That is why I believe that we must overcome the veto of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u131	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u132	Bespalij, Yushchenka Block “Our Ukraine”. Well, first of all, first of all, the undeniable fact is that the new authorities are significantly increasing their savings and will increase. The other one. Another undeniable fact is that if we take into account the thoughtless offers of our esteemed colleagues and give them 10, 20, 100 billion now, there will be a decline in savings of 2. This is to the knowledge of the electorate. Third. You don't have to go with the recipe Popandopalo once in the movie “The Wedding in Malinovka” when he handed out painted papers and said, “Take it, take it, I’ll print it to myself.” If we're going to create billions of goods in the consumer market right now, we're all perfectly aware of what's going to happen: there's going to be such a fantastic hyperinflation that the '90s is just going to happen again. And that's why, of course, thoughtful and responsible forces can't go there. And our Ukraine will never do that. And the depreciation of savings is now being extinguished at a better rate than ever before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u133	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u134	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party I just wanted to get some numbers. We ended up at about 400 billion in 2004, about 404, and this is 500 billion, or 10 percent, is 10 billion dollars. And 0.5 percent of the gross product is equal to two and a half billion. I mean, excuse me, the balance between 10 billion and two and a half billion is a little bit different. So if you are proposing, you might suggest that it be balanced. In this case, it is completely unbalanced. And second moment. By what means do the authors plan to take the money? How will they benefit from the gross product of the brothers? There's only one mechanism: through the budget. And we always say that through budget. Put two and a half billion into this budget in 2006, and solve this problem. Why would there be a new law? Only you need to understand what inflation will be like and what it will be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-17-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here obviously was referring to the accounting standards that will be provided in the budget each year to cover savings. This is about 0.5 percent of GDP and 10 percent of GDP per year. So there's generally a small number, but we really need to predict it in his budget and then think about how to bind it. But, dear fellows. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Rules and Procedures, first place the President's vote on this. To lay out the law in the form proposed here by the President of Ukraine. I'm voting to include the President of Ukraine's proposal in the law. Please. [[17:59:43]] For 105 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. What procedure? The Communists, the “Regions of Ukraine”, the People's Party – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 31, Block Timoshenko – 1, SPI – 0, the Ukrainian People's Party – 25, SDPU – 1, National Block – 1, “Trust of the People” – 10, “Reforms and Order” 13, “One Ukraine” – 7, the National Movement of Ukraine – 13, “Party of industries and entrepreneurs of Ukraine” – 3, non-fractional – 1. I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Veto of the President of Ukraine to amend the article of the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings, registration number 4475-1. Please vote. There's a vote coming. Please vote. [[18:00:45]] For 270. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Communists - 56, “Regions of Ukraine” - 52, National Party - 36, “Our Ukraine” - 0, Block Timoshenko - 20, SPU - 24, Ukrainian People's Party - 7, SDPU (o) - 19, National Block - 19, “Trust of the People” - 12, “Reforms and Order” - 0, “One Ukraine” - 8, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, “Party of Ukrainian Manufacturers and Entrepreneurs” - 12, non-fractional - 15. Thus, honourable colleagues, the bill is rejected. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Tomorrow we'll resume our meeting at 10 a.m. schedule for Friday.
