ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:57]] It's registered to -389. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today, citizens of Ukraine, believing Muslims, together with the Islamic world, celebrate the first day of Uraza Bayram, which is marked by the end of the month's month of Ramadan. Allow me, on your behalf, to congratulate all the citizens of Ukraine who practice Islam, with the celebration of Uraza-Bayram, and to wish all the many-religious Ukrainian society peace, harmony, prosperity and work together for the benefit of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Now, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on November 2. Seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review: three laws were passed, including two laws on the ratification of treaties; two bills were adopted as a basis; two bills were rejected. Dear National Deputies! The issue of the granting of approval by the President of Ukraine, Medvedzka Alexandre Ivanovich, to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine is under discussion. The committee proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. It is prepared taking into account the established practice of considering the President's proposals for the appointment of the Attorney General. Information from the committee, up to three minutes, a statement by the Attorney General, up to five minutes, a reply by the Attorney General to his office in 10 minutes, and a decision. No objections? Thank you. Who will report from the committee? Maria Marcus? Please, the deputy chairman of the committee has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u2	Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Head and Honorable Government Members! Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko made proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Alexander Ivanovich Medvedjk as Attorney General of Ukraine. The Committee on Law Enforcement at the meeting of the second November 2005 meeting of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andrievich Yushchenk, discussed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment of Medvedzka Ivanović, President of Ukraine, to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Ten national deputies — members of the committee — took part in the discussion of the issue. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has been invited to support the draft decree. Yet, five members of the committee supported the decree, four of them voted against, and one abstained. Thus, the committee’s decision on the issue was not adopted. The committee asked many questions. I think Alexander Ivanovich, speaking, will answer these questions and others that will arise in his esteemed colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u3	Thank you, please sit down, Maria Andriyevna. Dear colleagues, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko is invited to the rostrum and then to ask if you will. May I have your attention, fellow officers? Yes, please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, are present! I would like to say that while I am on this high court, I am fully aware of the full extent of my responsibility as Attorney General of Ukraine. This understanding is based on my life and professional experience. The Ukrainian community has grown tired of the permanent conflicts surrounding the prosecutor’s office and expects the new Attorney General, first of all, honesty, balance, political engagement, and objectivity. As far as you can tell from the press about the candidates for this position was now more extensive than ever, I am grateful for the confidence expressed to the President of Ukraine, who stopped his choice in my candidacy. I am absolutely sure that the position of Attorney General should be politically independent. The Attorney General is a procedural figure whose decisions depend on the direction of investigators and prosecutors, and thus on the possibility of achieving the objective of justice. Therefore, the apoliticality of prosecutors in the exercise of official powers must be not only a provision of law but also an internal belief. By upholding the accusations on behalf of the State, or by exercising the rule of law, they must act impartially, on the basis of equality before the law. This is only possible in the case of the actual independence of prosecutors, which is an important element of the objectivity of their activities, and I therefore look forward to your support for this issue, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine is one of the main guarantors who can ensure the proper status of the prosecutor. In my opinion, when it comes to the activities of the prosecutor's office or other law enforcement agencies, publicity and publicity are permissible only to the extent that they do not violate the presumption of innocence, as well as the right of a person to privacy information about his person. The Public Prosecutor’s Office and other law enforcement authorities should not share their suspicions and assumptions with the public but should inform the public of the concrete results of their work. On the basis of these principles, I believe it is necessary to focus the efforts of the prosecutor’s authorities primarily on solving the following issues. In general, I am opposed to the term “current” or “resonance” criminal cases. For an average citizen, every matter that directly affects his rights and interests is relevant. At the same time, in today’s situation, it is impossible to avoid this term because a number of criminal cases have become widely publicized not only in Ukraine but also outside Ukraine. Even resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe refer to the need for a transparent investigation of individuals. In view of this, the Public Prosecutor’s Office should take clear and public-aware steps to demonstrate its desire to establish the truth and to make legal decisions in matters that have been heard for a long time in the wider Ukrainian community. I would like to say a few words about another very pressing problem: meeting the requirements of the Transitional Regulations of the Constitution of Ukraine and other obligations to the Council of Europe regarding the reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. I will note that I recently had the opportunity to highlight my position on the reform of pretrial investigations at the “round table” in the Supreme Council. It is simple and understandable because it meets all international standards. The investigation in Ukraine should be organized according to a well - known principle, and the prosecutor’s office should focus its efforts on overseeing compliance with the laws. I am a proponent that without the prosecutor’s consent criminal conduct and charges should not be violated. Another painful issue is corruption in government and government. The time has come to put an end to the shameless practice of being held accountable by landowners and secretaries of rural councils for minor misconduct. It is necessary to identify thoroughly with the main causes of the spread of corruption in society, to propose real, rather than formal, mechanisms to combat it, to develop and amend existing legislation, first of all anti-corruption, to change the format of anti-corruption, to abandon public interest and to create, eventually, an investigation service with a priority task of investigating and warning corruption among officials. On the basis of such approaches, the Office of the Attorney-General developed a draft Ukrainian Law on State Investigation Services. It's about the so-called general-view function. It is known that the relevant institutions of the Council of Europe have negatively assessed the recent changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which have established the role of the Prosecutor's Office in overseeing compliance with human rights and freedoms laws and regulations. At the same time, as part of the implementation of the joint plan of action of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Council of Europe on reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u5	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u6	Specific proposals have been prepared regarding the approval of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in the non-criminal sphere. So I'm sure that, together with you, we're going to offer a choice of activities that would, on the one hand, meet the standards of the Council of Europe and, on the other hand, national realities and traditions and not destroy the national legal system and not harm the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. Finally, I want to say the following. I understand the urgency and urgency of the tasks currently before the prosecutor’s office. I have a vision of their solutions, and I have professionals who are able to ensure that they are implemented on the basis of the principles I have set out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, the speech is over. If you have any questions, please sign up. We agreed 10 minutes to ask. Please note the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u8	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Your Honor, I am asking you as Head of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, “Beresowski-Jushchenko”, to assist us in the legal aid of investigating the movement of funds from two Latvian banks to Ukraine. Please tell me what candidate for the post of Attorney General of Ukraine is what can be done to ensure that the truth and truth are established here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. Dear National Deputy, we have received material from the interim commission of inquiry, and an appropriate examination is now under way and a decision will be made according to the law. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u10	Yes. Alexander Pecklusenko, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u11	Honourable Rapporteur, Alexander Pecklusenko, Zaporozha oblast, Ukraine. We are interested in a few questions. First. Your attitude towards the falsified Boris Kolesnikov case? Second. Your attitude towards what is called the Northdonese Separatism case? Third. Your attitude towards the issue of stowaways around your colleague Vasiliev? And the question is very important to the guards. This is our parliamentary order. The situation surrounding our bank's investors. These people have been robbed and can't get their savings for three years. We do not ask, we insist that this issue be a priority for you. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. With regard to the criminal case against Kolesnik, proceedings in this case have been suspended in connection with Kolesnikov's illness. And upon his recovery, the investigation will be resumed, and a decision will be taken. With regard to the criminal case of Tikhov. The criminal investigation is now in progress. The materials of this criminal case are being reviewed. Upon completion of the examination and consideration of the relevant motions, the question of the continued movement of the criminal case will be resolved. As for my relationship with Vasily Gennady Andreevich, I do not support his relationship. Normal relationships. Criminal case against our bank officials under Zaporozhye. We will take all measures to ensure that the decision is consistent with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u13	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u14	Vassili Nadraga, faction of the People's Party, Lithuanian bloc, Lugansk region. Dear Alexander Ivanovich. I want to welcome you, because in Luhansk region, you have the best feedback about you, and God forbid. But I want to remind you of our faction conversation yesterday. You said two important thesis. First. You'll only do what you do, you'll do what the Attorney General has to do. It's not politics, it's law and order in this country. And second moment. You said you wouldn't be anyone's political instrument in any election. I would very much like this to happen. And remind you that as a faction, we are ready to support you, and we have spoken. But with one small component, once and for all. If you fulfil those commitments, we will continue to go along with you in the future and support everything you do positive for that country, not give political intrigues and all the others who are trying to find politics on the legislative scene, instead of finding the law. God bless you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u15	Thank you. What I said yesterday at the faction, I declare, in the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u16	Yes, Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u18	Sergey Zizko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u19	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear pretender, the people have long hoped that law - enforcement agencies will serve the law that will be governed by honest and professional men. And especially on the field, the people demanded that the authorities in Ukraine be cleansed of corruption, cleansed, separated from the political situation of the law enforcement agencies, and demanded prison robbers. Please tell us, how do you feel about continuing to view such an important topic as the server, the computer used to falsify presidential and second elections, how will you view the subject of criminal emigration related to Bakai, Bilocon, Scherban and their return to Ukraine, as well as the Gongadze case? After all, it is on these matters that the people demand to approach: either, or. Or they'll be punished, or
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. I would like to inform you that all of these cases that you have called are committed and criminal cases are being investigated: both for the server and for Gongadze. These investigations are conducted in close cooperation with the relevant operational units, and we will take decisions on these matters in due course and make sure that these decisions meet the requirements of existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u21	Leukko Lukyanenko, Block Timoshenko The faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u22	Ukrainian Republican Party, Timoshenko Yulia Block Dear Alexander Ivanovich, please explain how you feel about this phenomenon: the Gongadze case, Alexander’s case, is still being investigated over the years and is not being investigated. Is that a weakness, a lack of expertise for prosecutors or what's going on here? The second question is, why aren't the political murders that took place in 14 years of independence in Ukraine? What is it, the prosecutor's office helps those who kill or what? Next, you feel that 32 sugar factories have been cut into scrap metal in Ukraine. How can this be explained? And another question is, in Ukraine, it's extremely common that some thieves cut aluminium wire or other copper wire from mines, from other communication systems, they put it in stores and metallurgy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. With regard to the Alexandrov case, it is in court, and there is a court hearing before the Luhansk Court of Appeal. And I think the right decision will be made. With regard to the Gongadze case, you know that the direct killers on this criminal case, they're set up, they're now going to familiarize themselves with the materials of the criminal case, and as soon as they complete the investigation, the case will be referred to the court. I realize that there is more to the question of the buyers, the organizers. In this regard, the work is carried out jointly by the Security Service. And we hope for a positive outcome. As far as political killings are concerned, I don't know what we meant, what specific matters, but believe me, if they're not exposed, I'm sure there's an appropriate set of investigators and operatives on every case that's designed to expose them. As to your question about what metal scrap metal companies are doing, what they're doing is they're throwing metal scraps and stuff like that, and I want to say that, yes, that's what we have in the state, but the work is done. By the way, to say that nearly 11,000 of these crimes have been reported in 10 months of this year, most of them being brought to justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u24	Valerius Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u25	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear Alexander Ivanovich, I'd like to ask you a question, you said that the prosecution has, its activity is to answer those civilized democratic assumptions that it operates in a similar institution in other countries. I still wanted you to be more specific about the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office as a function of general supervision. Your view: does the Public Prosecutor's Office have a function of general supervision, or does it not have to do this function, as this is actually the same kind of institution that doesn't do it in other democratic countries? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. Dear national deputies, as you know in the Constitution there was no function, no constitutional function as a general oversight. Since January 1, you people have actually made that decision. And I, as Attorney General, and all prosecutors, must obey this law and we will do it. But I'd like to tell you that this is a difficult question. And now, at this point in time, I don't think I can give up this function as required by the Council of Europe and other European institutions. We need to look evolutionaryly at this issue, because other institutions, that is, courts and other bodies, are not yet ready to take on the full burden of addressing citizens, especially those who are socially unsecured, disabled, pensioners. And that's why I'm stressing once again that we have to move forward gradually, evolutionaryly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u27	Alexander Ivanovich, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to invite the national deputies to the session room, we have a decision to make. Yes, distinguished national MPs, may I have your attention? Let's move on to making a decision. Please sit down, take your seats, dear colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take a seat. We're voting now. Please prepare for the vote. The draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 8360, on granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Medvedzka Aleksandra Ivanovich, to the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:25:35]] For 303 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Allow me, on your behalf, to welcome Bear Alexander Ivanovich and to wish for fruitful work, the rule of law, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen. Now by factions, please: the Communist faction 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 50, the People's Party 46, our Ukraine 37, Block Timoshenko 3, SPI 0, the Ukrainian People's Party - 1, SDPU - 19, Forward, Ukraine! - 19, “Trust of the People” - 15, “Reforms and Orders” - 5, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 14, National Movement of Ukraine - 13, “Ukrainian” - 0, Postfractional - 26. For reasons, please write this down for five minutes if you want. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Michael Loboda, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u28	I'd like to give Peter Stepanovich Cibenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u29	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u30	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I'd like a person who is chosen by the Attorney General of Ukraine to wish on behalf of the faction to stand on the watch of the law, no matter what. But most importantly, why I took the floor today, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is to speak again about how a man, as a deputy, as a communist and assiduous, with which the Soviet laws are extended and with which our social patriots give national interests to Ukraine by voting for the Soviet laws. I'd like to re-emphasize the faction position. We realize that we are not set up by any cabal, on any side. I understand that Uncle Sam recently promised another paradise in Ukraine because of the difference, due to the cancelling of the Jackson-Venics amendment, but I would like to see the national interests of Ukraine ahead of everything. This is contrary to Ukraine’s national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u31	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of Ukraine, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u32	Sulkov's request for a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u33	Paul Pulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u34	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" asks you to return to the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Violations of Citizens' Rights to Freedom of Conscience in the Plains region. This is Decree 8352. And 8353 of the ruling also ask for measures to prevent interfaith conflicts and violations of the citizens' right to freedom of conscience in the Plains region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u35	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to say that the reasons behind our vote for Alexander Ivanovich were the following: yesterday we had a serious and frank conversation of our faction with the Attorney-General's candidate, and we heard in fact assurances that Alexander Ivanovich would be the Attorney-General, for whom there would always be only law, just law and nothing else in the first place. Not the order, not the recommendation, not the phone calls, but the law, which is the same for all Ukrainian citizens. And we like the fact that the Attorney General is going to be a professional. It is the professionalism of the authorities that is lacking today. Good luck from the People's Party!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u37	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u38	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine”. Honorable candidate for Attorney General's office, your honors are present! The situation in Ukraine is that prosecutors are in fact insubordinate and irresponsible to society. I want to ask Alexander Ivanovich -- there is no time for him to welcome this practice, because prosecutors must also be responsible under the articles of the Criminal Code for the abuse of power, for service negligence, for negligence, so the human rights situation, for the protection of these rights, on the part of the prosecution, today seems quite critical in the state. I would like to believe that the new Attorney General, despite the assurance that he will carry out appropriate personnel transfers against radical changes in the Public Prosecutor's Office, and we will indeed establish a rule of law regime, I would stress once again, legality, not ownership, camaraderie, protectionism in the activities of this responsible body. We wish Alexander Ivanovich success in his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u39	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u41	Andrew School, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u42	Thank you. I would like to emphasise that, after this vote, we can clearly and unequivocally say that there will be a procurator's vertical in Ukraine, because this is an increase during the vote, when the Communists vote, the Party of “Regions” and “Our Ukraine” tomorrow. And so it was voted in the first reading of the budget, and so it's now that this candidature has been voted out, so I'd like everyone here in the national parliaments to understand very well that now the same machine is going to start working again, and unfortunately it's going to work. And I'm very sorry about the colleagues from "Our Ukraine" who supported this process. Fighting “Quickness” cannot be about leading it. No one can put their own people in positions of power — whether it would be an S.B.I. or a prosecutor’s office. And Peter Dustenko cannot put his people there. And you shouldn't have supported a politically engaged candidate. Therefore, do not complain that all matters will be investigated as was the case of Alexander, that all matters will be investigated in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Mikola Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u44	May I have the floor to Karnauhu Mikola Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u45	Mikola Karnauh. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine did not vote in favour of Medvedzko because of such circumstances. We have data that Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, working in less responsible positions, particularly in charge of an investigative task force to investigate the circumstances of the murder of journalist Alexandrov, and then as a member of that group, has deliberately contributed to the infallibility of a knowingly innocent person. We believe that such practices and attitudes are incompatible with the position of Attorney General and have therefore taken such a position. We believe that everyone should be held accountable by law, but the prosecutors who compromised themselves, who called for the responsibility of innocent people, cannot hold responsible positions. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Oleg Grigorovich! So maybe you'll make a statement? Please have a word for it. Well, there are 2 applications. And then there's a statement by the factions of the “Ukraine” and the Company. Please, will you be performing? Well, you asked for a 30-minute recess from the election of a deputy head and committee heads. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u47	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, there are 20 days left before the start of the election campaign. And today, once a day, there is a question about the election of the deputy head of the Supreme Council, the heads of a number of committees, the deputies of committee heads, and so forth. I'm sorry we have such huge vacancies until the end of the term. In these circumstances, the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc today has decided to withdraw all the candidates that we have offered and we will not take part in the vote because we do not believe in the outcome of these choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u48	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions, the factions of the “Regions of Ukraine” as well as the Communist Party of Ukraine, Paul Sulkovski will speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. A statement by the MP of the Party of the Regions for the second time, we informed you on Tuesday, and today, we report for the second time, with respect to the violation of the right of citizens to freedom of worship by the Head of the Provincial State Administration, Vasil Red. Honourable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Highly Honourable Voters. The faction of the Party of the Regions with concern draws the attention of State authorities and the public to the abuse of the religious sentiments of believers in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which is being carried out in the Plain region, following the harassment of the head of the district government, Basil Redoni. The analysis of numerous complaints and appeals made by residents in the area gives reason to conclude that the Governor of Equine is harshly superior to his official authority by interfering with interfaith relations, in fact. The burning of enmity between Ukrainian citizens who are adherents of various religions. Not concealing his hostility toward the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, while at the same time showing favor to the Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate, he did not in vain ask for the independence of President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenk to give Heroy of Ukraine to Basil Red for credit to the Kyiv Patriarchate. Basil Redvoni gives illegal orders to the administration and condones the illegal capture of the temples of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church by the supporters of the Kyiv Patriarchate. The adventurous position of the governor caused the physical collisions of believers. Sadly, these conflicts have already shed blood. In a civilized Europe where Ukraine wants to go, the behavior of a government official is seen as nothing less than savagery, a manifestation of medieval barbarism. The faction of the Party of the Regions warns the current state authorities of the danger of returning to the situation of the early 1990s with numerous conflicts on religious ground. The scars on the body of a Ukrainian society have only recently healed. So what forces would it be convenient today to rekindle these wounds and excite society before the election? It should be recalled that long before he sat down in the governor’s chair, he had been blessed with a brutal attitude toward believers. Sadly, this did not prevent the leadership of the State from assigning this populist to the post of head of the district administration. Ladies and gentlemen, you have two draft rulings in your room. And we ask you to support Decree 8352 in order to form a commission of inquiry, to study the situation, to figure it out, and to take appropriate action. And the second decision is to recommend that Victor Yushchenk release a leader such as Basil Red from the post of head of the government. If we don't do this, my friends, then we're just going to lead to this situation, to an incorrigible one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two more factions -- the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement -- demand a recess to consult. Who will make the statement? Happy birthday, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Ukrainian National Party and National Movement of Ukraine, Mikhailo Ratushny Our two factions didn't want to make this statement, because we think that involving Parliament in interfaith, interreligious opposition, especially on the electoral front, is wrong. How wrong is the hanging of all Ukraine with political slogans: “With us is God and Russia! ” But the statement just now by Deputy Sulkovsky, who is consciously not the first, not the second, to submit here to the Supreme Council the issue of the confrontation between our constituents, who belong to different religions, is a confirmation that someone interested in Ukraine is to have in Ukraine the heathen and further fire of inter-national, inter-religious opposition. I want to remind these deputies, those arsonists, that there's a specific article in the Criminal Code that says that these acts are criminally responsible. I think, as a believing man, as a Greek Catholic, as a person who has no relation to the opposition of the Orthodox people, I think that here mostly people among the MPs of believers understand the danger of the inflammation of interfaith hostility, it was absolutely criminal when our colleague Sulkovsky incited people not to let a patriarch in one of the confessions into the temple. I couldn't understand how a man who had something to do with Volina when he urged the inhabitants of Crimea, Odessa, not to let his countrymen go, not to let a patriarch of one of the Orthodox churches into the temple on Volinsk. I'm addressing you, Sulkowski, you're hiding from your constituents. You've lost confidence in people, remember whose support you've come to this Parliament. Know that the traitor was never respected by those whom you betrayed and by those for whom you betrayed. Read Taras Bulbu, about the events that are described on your Plainland. And do not stir up the opposition of one bullock, one Ukrainian, to another. People will never forgive you for that. I am confident that Parliament will never be involved in this opposition, that we will be wise, calm. I'm sure we won't give in to another provocation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u52	Yes, Your Honor. What, a lineup? Please, Sulkowski, the name was. Only I'm asking, no last names, because now we're going back.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! The previous speaker just wanted to disprove and help Basil Red. And that's all lies. How painful.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u54	The last name was "Holy Colleagues!" It was called a last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u55	How painful it is that this previous speaker is from Ternopilska. They're already in Ternopilska, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Similarly, we were prepared to act in the same way as the Red One in the Plains. So this populist, the previous speaker, is a liar who only told the whole lie on the stand. Don't believe it, fellow MPs! I beg you, I bow my head to you people's deputies! Before making a decision, we need to put an end to this, calm down the Orthodox Church in Ukraine, and beat more of these hoodlums in their hands so that they do not go to church. Let them do the economy, the production. And he's all the heads of the equality administration only near the churches and he's holding. It's not about economics and improving the quality of life. It's a populist, and today it needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u56	Yes, thank you, you've been exchanging your thoughts. The question of the election of national deputies by members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under review. What decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, the committee. I just talked to the committee head to look at the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Let me see. Show me, give the committee a decision. I want to say again, give me the committee's decision. Please don't shout, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here's my papers. Give me the committee's decision, I'll set it up. Come on, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Make a decision to the committee. Once again, I want to speak English: make your decision to the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please, is there a committee decision on this matter? Dear colleagues, is there a committee decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream, please. Don't scream! Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'm asking for your attention! So let's think about it this way. Everybody, take your seats. Listen! At 12 o'clock. May I have your attention, please? At 12 o'clock, I ask the faction leaders, the head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and culture and spirituality to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Council will make a decision, we'll vote, we'll put it to a vote, we won't take it, we won't put it to a vote. All of it. Sit down, please. There's no other way out. We need a decision from the Conciliation Council. Don't yell, please! I beg of you, fellows of honor! You won't give it now, the other part won't give it tomorrow. I'm offering! I'm offering! Sit down, I know what to do. I suggest you, Your Honor, hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 12 o'clock. The Conciliation Council will vote in favour of this issue and we will consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u57	Please don't control me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u58	I want to say again, dear colleagues! People's deputies! I'm not acting on promises, I'm acting on the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u59	I associate with believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u60	This is how I propose to do it now. To the leaders of the MP factions now, Adam Ivanovich continues the meeting, to gather in the office, to hold. Well, then, please. Dear colleagues, I'll close the meeting. Now, dear fellows. So let's exchange now for one minute. Please don't. Please don't control me. You have to learn to run me first. I want to say it again. Calm down. Now, if you don't want to hold meetings of the Conciliation Council, now in one minute, the leaders of the pro- or anti-faction factions. Let's take a look. All right, everybody, take your seats. Faction leaders. Otherwise you won't, you won't do anything by pressure. If the factions support it now, please. Faction leaders will now be asked whether they will not. That's all I can see. Please, faction leaders. He'll be right there. Microphone, Communist faction, please. So notice, if there's 226 in the population, we're going to look at it. Please take your seats. Please, Communist faction, microphone, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u61	Thank you. The Communist faction insists on this issue. We have no reason not to consider it. What's more, society's already broken down. And it's not in the hall, it's outside, it's in support of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u62	“Ukraine regions”, microphone. Samofal microphone. Please take your seats. Samofalova's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to calm down. I'm an eyewitness to these events. I was one of the five Ukrainian deputies who arrived in Ostrog, and we talked to the believers. I spent 50 minutes alone with the believers who represent the Kiev Patriarchate as well. There are two sides to the wall. There's a police force standing between them today. Blood is pouring, brother's brother is breaking the key, woman with a concussion is lying in the hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u64	I see. You're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u65	The second woman broke her ribs. That's what I'm talking about. I promised that we had come not to judge here, but to look at the situation, to report to the Supreme Council that we would create a working group, because the rights, like, this side and this side, and the truth is alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u66	Thank you, microphone. People's party, microphone, please. Well, they said yes, that's all! Please don't get too emotional right now. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u67	Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the People's Party has repeatedly described the events that are taking place in the Plain region and in other areas of Ukraine, where the governors who were appointed this year feel like feuds and build areas and people of their own kind and how they see politics in these areas. So I think this is a question that needs to be raised. But I think, and the faction of the People's Party, once again, we are addressing Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenka, please, the President of Ukraine, to see what is happening today in the regions: Governors are acting as they consider their own judgment to be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u68	Thank you. I see. Let's move on. Our Ukraine, microphone. Who will act? Boris Unburnt, please. Let's just give it a quick "for", "against", honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u69	Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u71	"Our Ukraine," Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio audiences and TV viewers! The Supreme Council should now consider such matters. As far as local budgets are concerned, the protection of children deprived of parental care, the pension provision of military personnel — primary and military — are laws that really improve people’s lives. Instead, we are offered another political debate that creates tensions in society instead of solving these problems and others that I haven't called, and what is the overcrowded order of the day. The faction calls on law enforcement, law enforcement, public authorities to take all measures to normalize the situation that really exists. But the Supreme Council, as an organ of state power, is doing its direct work, which also depends on improving the lives of our people, doing our jobs, not doing our jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u72	Yes, "Our Ukraine" against it. Who's it gonna be? Microphone. Boulorus Oleg Grigorovitch microphone, please. Dear colleagues, please don't shout! You can't hear anything! Well, please. Who Will Come From the Future? Microphone, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please. Well, I beg of you, dear fellows. Oleg Grigorovich, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u73	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko believes that a commission should be created, carefully considered all aspects and then made some well - founded, recommending decisions. We can't allow passions to be set on fire during this period, we're entering a special lane -- the preparation and the holding of national democratic elections. We need to create a commission. We ask you to make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u74	Thank you. That's where the BET comes in. A socialist party. Please, who's it going to be? Alexander Alexanderovich. Boko's microphone. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The faction of socialists is concerned about the situation that has arisen in these conflicts. in conflict areas. But we still want this issue to be addressed in this way. We need to get back to the agenda now. On the other hand, the question of what is happening on the ground is clearly to be considered when we go to a group of our deputies with different sides, to create a commission, and only then after the results of such an on-the-spot review and a study of the situation on the spot with the participation of interested parties to be considered in the session room. Now we're going to go back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u76	Ukrainian People’s Party Who? Paul Silent. John the Rabbit. I'm sorry. Well, take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u77	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. I listened to the statement by the representative of the BUT faction, and I mentioned the wise words: “With good intentions the road is paved to hell.” If we want unity, good in society, let us follow the Rules, and the Rules assign us: we have a committee on these issues, we send these documents down to this committee, there are representatives of different factions -- and they will solve this problem. No, people today want to stir up hostility, people today want to prevent the unity of the Ukrainian people. And so those MPs who are sitting here in charge of that famous MP who was pushing and falling to the ground here show that they don't want good for our Ukraine. So our position is to move to the agenda, to the consideration of the laws on budget changes, where there are many other problems that need to be addressed in the financing of local governments. Let us, then, not be belligerent, but act in harmony with the Rules. Put the papers on the committee and act. This is all so that Ukraine will not rest. It's a disgrace to all those who want to light it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u78	Social Democrats, please, Igor Shurma. Who's it gonna be? Igor Shurma or Suffritch, right? Please, Shufrich. Well, make sure you're there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot look away when the blood is shed, no matter what the reason is, but when it came on the basis of a planned provocation by the head of the district government, unfortunately, in the past of our colleague of the Red Army. We demand that he be held accountable, released from office, and criminally responsible for people’s suffering today: they go against their brother. Today, we need to consider the matter and make a decision. There's nothing else in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u80	“Go ahead, Ukraine”, please, who will? Igor Sharov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Igor Sharov, the electoral bloc of Lithuania. According to our strong beliefs, human resources policy in our country needs correction, to put it mildly. And we consider this consideration to be the beginning of this correction, we are in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u82	The trust of the people. Anton Kisse, please, microphone. Who's it gonna be? Kisses? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Today, we believe that our parliamentary group must follow the agenda that has been proposed. Today, the people of Ukraine are waiting for us to make concrete decisions. With regard to the question now raised, we believe that a commission should be established to examine the situation and bring the matter before the Supreme Council. We think and believe that today's opposition is simply not an opportunity to go on the real agenda that I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u84	You're for the commission. I see. “Reforms and Orders”, please, Sergey Sobolev. Mikhailo Kosov. I see, I see. Mikhailo Kosov. I told you. Yeah, yeah. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u85	Mikhailo Kosov, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, not only is the Sulkovsky project presented in the session hall but also another project by Alexyuk and Shirka. So, there's no doubt that both projects need to be considered, but in order to do that, we need to put together a special committee on culture and spirituality, and we need to look at these two projects in advance, or at least do what you say, gather the heads of factions, representatives of the committee and take a preliminary look at this question. Without preparation in one-sided order, this cannot be considered at all. There is no doubt that we are dealing with pre-election passions, and once again we are to involve the church as it was before the presidential elections in politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u86	Mikhail Vasilovich, my dear colleagues, I suggested this, but there must be some compromise to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. If we are determined to consider it, the authors who have made the draft decision on nonadmissibility will certainly have the opportunity to justify their decision. It means “Reforms and Orders” is not for consideration. A party of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Please, which one of you will it be? Basil Gureyev, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, very important issues have been put into the agenda, including the 2005 budget refinement. I mean, we're trying to distribute extra revenue. But we don't understand where these extra revenue comes from. The faction is categorically opposed to the tax that is applied to state-owned stocks. We believe that today we need to address the issue of the 2005 budget. That's the first one. Another package. It's an SOT stock package. So the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the faction insists that we move on a daily basis, create a commission and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u88	The National Movement of Ukraine. Who's it gonna be? Viacheslav Koval, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Viacheslav Koval, National Movement of Ukraine I believe, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, who are now creating a dangerous precedent that will allow other parts of the hall or other factions to produce what is produced by a group that provokes the Supreme Council of Ukraine to act. I believe that there is one law in the Supreme Council of Ukraine called the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the bills that are being submitted to the session hall should be passed by a special committee, corresponding to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee should legislate, not the force of a political faction. We understand that elections are coming up, and in order to win some corresponding interest in the Plains region, some political forces need this demarche. But on the other hand, we realize that we can make a similar rematch, so we are firmly opposed to considering this without.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u90	Thank you. “The only Ukraine”. Who will speak from “the only Ukraine ”? Bogdan Hubsky? None. What, Adam Ivanovich, then what do we do? Now, dear fellows, we're counting. Honorable national MPs, judging from the position of faction leaders, are needed to address only the issue of the creation of a commission. So I suggest you all sit in your seats now, we vote for inclusion in the agenda. If it's voted. Then the right to speak will be given to Shirko or Alexiyuk, who speak of the inadmissibility of this decision. If the draft decision on non-admissibility is not supported, then I will put to the vote without discussion so that we can move on to this issue. Dear colleagues, I've taken a decision by the Conciliation Council, I'm doing just fine with the rules. Well, what you're suggesting is that I have to look into it. Dear colleague, I think I'd like to see some drafts that relate to the budget, the social laws, let's lock down and shut down. It'll be easier. Then I beg you to calm down. I'm working on a rule. Well, what are you offering me? Now, dear colleagues, we have actually held a meeting in the session room of the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Council expressed itself. So you're offering me, dear colleagues, what are you offering me? Let's close the meeting. I'm asking you again, please. May I have your attention, please? Once again, my dear colleagues, I would like to say: now the Conciliation Council has made a decision by the Conciliation Board above any committee. Please calm down. Well, I just got off the phone, so I wrote it down. What's that? What do you want from me? Please, calm down. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Supreme Council Resolution on the Establishment of a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the Investigations of Citizens' Violations of the Right to Freedom of Conscience in the Plains region, registration number 8352. Please vote. John, after this decision I have not taken, I do not put to the vote. By the second order, I do not vote. What do you want from me? Well, they didn't, and I don't vote. [[11:04:48]] For 261 Yes, please, Yuri Shirko or Alexiyuk. The inadmissibility of the draft decision. Please, your performance. Well, there's a draft decision on inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian People's Party, constituency, city of Raven. The honourable deputies, the decree just mentioned, have no reason to be accepted from the following questions. First of all, no conflict and no bloodshed, which has been reported, has taken place at all, as evidenced by the relevant documents of the internal affairs authorities, as well as the BSS. Secondly, the community, with its signatures, showed its desire to move from one patriarch to another. There's nothing illegal about that, because if you say it like that, then you have to deny it to all one and a half thousand communities of the Kyiv Patriarchate, as well as to Greek Catholics and other communities. Next, the MP himself, who provoked this decision, tried to provoke a battle around this temple. Since he was on his way to the deputies from the Yushchenka bloc faction and took the blessing of the Kyiv patriarchate, he must somehow justify his betrayal. Third. In 1999, Patriarch Filaret was beaten in Mariupola on a land plot where the Temple of the Kyiv Patriarchate was to be built. And no decision was made on that point. Thus, the decree is intended only by the burning of interfaith enmity on this background by some political force, particularly the Party of the Regions. Dividends, winning dividends in the next election. No, the protection of the rights of believers or the resolution of conflicts is not involved. Thus, a decision cannot be taken because it is not the competence of the Supreme Council at all. If there was even a conflict, internal affairs would have to be concluded. As deputies, we had no record of any conflict or bloodshed. That is why it cannot be accepted. So I call upon all the believing deputies in this room, any religions not to vote in favour of this decree, because it is only a division and will cause animosity between believers in other religions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u92	Yes. Please, Paul Sulkowski. Then from the Committee of Olesia Stepanovich Tanjuk and we will make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! I've already asked you to support these draft laws. Once again, my friends, I have orders from the head of the government: 415, 417, 498, 413, 497 are only in the temples. Where, this is Lisoon of Basil Redney, he's not living without Basil Red, what Basil Red will say, they're doing these two here from the House of Deputies. So I'd like to tell you, Mr. Nationals, Basil Red is the head of the district council in the bed of Basil Red. Roman Vasilishin. Don't let him lie to me that even the district council's decision on church affairs, Basil Red, as the head of the district government cancels. Here is the witness in the bed, the head of the district council of Ravenshin. Basil Red provoked a series of battles. The Orthodox have been living near temples for two months now, where there is unrest. Today, from the Plainslands, this flood is moving all over Western Ukraine. Yesterday the national deputy told me from Ternopilska that such cases had already begun there and so on. So, honourable national MPs, we ask you to support Decree 8352. What are we asking? Create a Follow-up Commission to investigate violations of citizens' right to freedom of conscience in the same area. Select the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Third. To the MPs, to the groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine two days after the adoption of this decision, if we take this decision, I hope that you will be honored by the people's deputies, to make proposals for their representatives as part of the interim commission of inquiry, based on the provision of representation in its composition: one representative of the 20 national deputies of Ukraine, but not less than one national deputy of Ukraine from each parliamentary faction, group. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational support for the work of the interim commission of inquiry to be placed on the Supreme Council's apparatus. The report of the Interim Investigation Commission shall be heard no later than 15 days from the date of adoption of this decision. Dear National Deputies! And I'm asking you to help me as a member of the Goshchensky District of the Plains. And it's not just the Plains we're going to help, we're going to put a dot and there's going to be peace in all of Ukraine in Orthodox. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u94	Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Every time the election is near, we create these mandate committees. It's going to be the fourth commission to look at these things. That was in 92, 94, and so on. The committee considered this problem, it's not easy. The government did not violate anything when it ordered the services of the service. You and I, MPs, have passed such a law. This law refers to the practice of worship in turn. We have documents from both sides. So the committee, having considered the problem previously, decided to go to the Ministry of Justice, so that they would do it professionally, as we have always done, explore the problem and give arguments. Only after they give these arguments will we confirm a decision. Our commission of investigators is helpless here because the law is not violated at this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u96	Yes, please calm down, Shirko's line was called. It's wide right to a replica. All of it! And please take your seats, please. It's a wide microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u97	Yuri Shirko, Ukrainian National Party I want to turn to certain political forces, first to the Communists, because the MP who allowed himself to insult me or say the fall into my side, now he has betrayed and trampled his feet on the Communist Party he was a member of, and betrayed them. In the election, he became an MP for the favors of Victor Yushchenk and for the support of Basil Redney, but he became a dirtbag of agrarians. Today, he defiles us and tries to fuel interfaith enmity. Because it is simply used to destroy the Orthodox Church and, above all, the Ukrainian Church. And it was only because of the sanctification of the temple in Ostroz, Mecca, that the Orthodox Church was set on fire. So, honourable deputies, I would ask you not to react to any of these things that are abnormal, sick, and listen to the voice of the mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, please mobilize, everything! Dear colleagues, perhaps in this way. If we are. The Supreme Council has included this issue in the agenda, has made a decision, so perhaps this is how to expand the commission's mandate to look at all the cases that there are. And so that we do not, on every occasion, create an appropriate commission! So it's suggested this way. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of citizens' right to freedom of conscience. Period. And let them study all these questions. Taking this proposal into account, I put it to a vote. Registration number. What? What committee? I've already considered this committee. I'm betting on vote number 8352. Please vote. The Supreme Council has made a decision, Stepan Ilkovich! [[11:15:14]] For 264 I'm asking the people's deputies to give me an opportunity to work. Please! They don't give a chance! I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Unadmissibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Investigation of Violations of Citizens' Freedom of Conscience in the Plains region. [[authors Shirko, Alexiyuk]] Registration number 8352 b. Please be sure. [[11:15:59]] For 115 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote the draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in such an editorial. On the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the violation of the right of citizens to freedom of conscience. Period. Registration number 8352. Please vote. [[11:16:36]] For 279 Decision taken. The factions, please. All right, all right, sit down! Where did you go?Oh, my God! Not supported, second decision not supported. I won't, because the Conciliation Council didn't support it, that's enough, that's it! I beg you, sit down, come on, Paul Gnatovich! The Communist faction is 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 49, the People's Party is 45, our Ukraine is 2, the Timoshenko Block is 17, the SPU is 25, the Ukrainian People's Party is 1, the SDPU is 20, the Forward, Ukraine is 19, the Trust of the People is 8, the Reforms and Order is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 13, the National Movement of Ukraine is 0, the "One Ukraine" is 0, the "Afterfractional" is 24. All of it. I would like to remind the honourable national deputies that the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions of nearly 300 votes have spoken in favour of forming a commission; and there is no support for considering the second decision. So please calm down! The question is about the election of national deputies to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, well, it's obvious that the commission should first come to a conclusion -- then propose a draft ruling. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues. You and I are just seeing an example of how the Rules are being violated because we are making decisions in general: we need someone not to wait for conclusions, and then we will, friends, accuse the Chief of the Supreme Council or those who run them. We need to act strictly under the Rules, because I am speaking today from the Rules Committee. Dear friends, a draft decision is proposed for your agreement. At a meeting of the Committee from November 2nd, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich, a statement was made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, a member of the Ukrainian People's Party's Deputy Group, on the election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement. I would like to emphasize that the calculated quota for the number of members of the Ukrainian People's Party's Deputies Committees is one. As many as three Ukrainian national deputies are already working on this committee, Moisik Vladimir Romanovich, Kolesnik Valeriy Vasilovich, Alexiyuk Sergiyyyyovich. So the quota is fully used and it's over 3 times. Therefore, it was decided by the committee not to support the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, to elect him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the law enforcement of Ukraine's law enforcement activities. The draft decision is being added to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the election of Ukrainian national deputy Tatusuka Sergey Pilipovich ” is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u101	No, onion, onion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u102	Oh, onion. I'm sorry. Change the vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The draft decree “On the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tsibulk Volodymyr Mikolayovic, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement”. Please vote. [[11:20:45.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u103	Honorary Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, was instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, of November 1, 2005, to meet with the Committee on 2 November 2005, to discuss the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Tatusuka, Sergey Pilipovich, a non-fractional member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for his election as a member of the Committee of State Building and Local Self-Government. Considering that the accounting quota for the national deputies of Ukraine, which are not part of any faction or group on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, has not been used. The committee therefore proposes to support the statement made by the national deputy Tatusuka Sergey Pilipovich. The draft decision is added. About his election as a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u104	A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Totaszuk Sergija Pilipovich, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government, is being tabled. Please vote. [[11:22:18]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the election of a member of the High Council of Justice is under way. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, members of the High Council of Justice are appointed by secret ballot by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Proposals for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice shall be made by the parliamentary groups and factions. A candidate appointed as a member of the High Council of Justice is considered to have obtained most of the votes from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a result of a secret vote. Thus, according to the requirements of the law, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of Eudomymov Wallery of Alexanderovich as a member of the High Council of Justice is being submitted to your consideration. A number of signatures are collected from the leaders of authorized MP factions and groups. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask a committee, a count committee, to organize a vote when we are also voting on the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And when we look at this question, the next thing we're going to do is to elect the heads of committees and the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then we're going to be able to do the voting. Maybe 12 o'clock if we get there. Is there no objection? Thank you. Dear National Deputies, the issue is under review: the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the First Deputy Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Proposals have been made for the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by factions: Hare Vladimir Volodymyrovich faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, Yuri Ivanovich Kostenko faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich faction of the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, Konovaluk Valerius Ilichi from the MP group and Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrović, faction “Our Ukraine”. [[united]] Mikola Dmitrovic approached asking him not to consider today. So, dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask. Sergei Sasa's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u105	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Today at a faction meeting, a decision was made, which was made by Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus. The faction has decided to withdraw all the nominations for all the positions that are being held today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, on the basis of the faction’s decision, I too am withdrawing my candidacy as deputy head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u106	Thus, the honourable colleagues, we have on the voting list, in the ballot paper, the candidates: Hare Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Kostenko Yuri Ivanovich, as well as Konovluka Valeri Ilić. I would ask the head of the reckoning commission, Mishur Valery Dmitrovitch, to tell us what kind of voting order we're going to have. Now let's move on to the question of committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the members of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council, the National Deputies: Assadcheva, Hinzburg, Grzezhevka, Kalichenko, Karmazina, Kafarsky, Kostenyuk, Mother, Manchulenka, Mirimsky, Nadrag, Ryabikina, Rybik, Sitnika, Soboljeva, Fomenka, Crnovila, Chichcanova and Shevchuk to meet now in five minutes on the third floor of the Chamber, where the Counting Commission meets. After that, we will make a decision on how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the information to your knowledge has been proved. Now, about the committee heads. I beg your attention, my fellow Members, it is extremely difficult to work. As for the heads of the committees and the first deputy heads of the committees. Since there are many proposals, we have agreed that we will now conduct the rating vote on each candidate. After that, we will form a single draft decree and vote in favour of all the vacant positions of the heads and first deputies of the committee heads. Rating. If he's even voting, your honor, 226 doesn't mean we've made the final decision. I'd like this to be clearly fixed. Come on, three minutes out of the procedure, please log in. But we have already agreed unanimously on this procedure. Please, Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u109	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs! Well, I think we've got it all figured out here today. The political forces have put forward their candidacy. In fact, we all know them. Let's do a rating vote, include them in the ballot paper, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u110	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u111	Thank you. Zaporozhye, Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think your colleagues and the vast majority of the session room will support your offer. The point is that today is the most optimal and realistic way to end the bi-government of the committees. We are the days before the parliamentary elections, and I can tell you from the experience of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, we are literally failing these bills, which are becoming more and more. In order for our committees to work properly, in order to be balanced with the recommendations of these committees, we certainly need the proper guidance of these committees. Therefore, the headship of the committee, especially the first deputies of the committee heads, is extremely important for the further work of our Supreme Council. Therefore, the faction of the political party of the region supports the proposal of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and calls on everyone to engage in active voting work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u112	Yes, dear, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u113	Vassili Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Respectable colleagues have actually matured the situation. When we have so long missed a number of positions of principle that need to be filled with vacancies. Of course, that's what makes me feel bad. Therefore, this morning, the members of the People's bloc of Lithuania, who discussed this subject, believe that we must really close this problem once and for all by voting today. The fact that it is proposed to proceed with the voting mechanism is probably also correct, because it will enable in a calmer environment the identification of priorities, the identification of individuals who enjoy greater support in the room and, accordingly, the access to a comprehensive ballot rather than the extension of the situation in both time and emotion and politics. Members of the Lithuanian People's Unit are therefore prepared to vote by batch vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u114	Yes, Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Boris Bezpaloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u116	Boris Unburnt, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u117	Boris Nepalij, Viktor Yushchenka's Block “Our Ukraine”. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the question of the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We can see that obviously the Supreme Council is seriously losing its organization of work because there is a great deal of pressure, especially during the electoral period for the active leadership of the Supreme Council. So the position of our faction is that since this vote is separate, it's more complicated, it's run by ballots. And that's why we're talking to all colleagues of all factions regardless of their political orientation, because we have to decide the question, not to break this vote, but at least to take ballots in order to demonstrate our will. We ask you very much not to put this vote to rest this time. With regard to committee heads, it is clear that to optimize the work of committees, this is a matter. Our faction supports that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u118	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u119	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I can't understand it, and the faction members can't understand how they left quotas for the Committee on Education to the Socialist Party faction, it's our quota; it's the Privatization Commission. We did not know at all that any proposals should be made for the formation of the Supreme Council committees. So I'm authorized to state that the faction won't take the vote, regardless of what we see among the proposals on the committee that the faction would support these people today, but we won't accept just because we didn't need them, and the faction didn't offer them. And why is the Education Committee proposed in a completely different composition and a completely different head, but not from the Socialist Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! All right, we've already had an exchange of thoughts. Dear colleagues! We have been discussing this question, Mikhail Vasilovich, a respected colleague, for almost six months. And there was a call to the heads of MPs and factions to make their proposals. If anyone didn't, last night we asked for a nine o'clock in the morning at the Conciliation Council meeting, and they were all faction leaders. And one more moment. In accordance with the Rules, if the chairman of the committee withdraws from office, the quota remains behind the faction. And if he's in term, he's not supposed to be left behind by one faction or another. So, unfortunately, the reality is too great. I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. BUILDING has already withdrawn all of his candidatures, which I am asking you to do. There's going to be a vote. As we prepare for the vote, Eugene Kirilchuk, microphone, please. Oleg Belarus, I'm sorry. Oleg Belarus, please, while we prepare for the vote. And then Hubsky and all. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u121	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We've withdrawn our candidacy to demonstrate that the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc is not fighting for office, it's ridiculous a month before the election campaign. We withdrew our candidacy because we do not believe in fair elections. I wonder why the quota principle is being violated. Where are the quotas? Our faction today has 37 people, and our quotas have been 19. How can you create a package without quotas and solve the problem of composting a steering committee? It's wrong, it's unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u122	I want to say again, Your Honor Oleg Grigorovich, that's what we've been talking about for six months, everyone agreed to this approach, with such an offer. This morning, the view changed. Last night we talked, you all backed up. Bogdan Hubsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u123	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, at a faction meeting, it was decided to call off the candidates we had submitted. Therefore, they are not asked to put them to a vote, candidates from the “One Ukraine” faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u124	All right, we got a deal. Yes, please prepare, there'll be a vote now, I'll make the beast on our lists. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? As head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, the following candidates are Ponomarenko Georgiy, Slauta Victoror. Two candidatures. That's where they took everything. I am voting for a recommendation to head the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, candidate Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko, a faction of Communists. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:36:29]] For-73 Slata Viktor Andriyovich, faction of the “Region of Ukraine” as head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. [[11:36:56]] For 208 Yes, now the Committee on Health, Motherhood, and Childhood. To serve as chairman of the committee: Loboda Mikhailo Vasilovich, Communist faction; Bachevi Tetjana Dmitrovna, faction “Regions of Ukraine”; Sietina Mikhailo Lukovic, faction of the People's Party and Grigorovitch Lydia. Lilia Stepanovna, “Our Ukraine” faction. I'll put it to a vote in this order. Yes, the first is the vote of Loboda Mikhail Vasilovich, a faction of Communists. Please vote. [[11:37:45]] For-103 Bahejev Tetjana Dmitrovna, faction of “Ukraine” Please vote. [[11:38:09]] For-125 Mihailo Lukovic, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:38:33]] For a hundred and Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna. Please vote. [[11:38:57]] For-147 Science and Education Committee. To serve as chairman of the committee: Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić, Communist faction; Toločko Petrovich, People’s Party faction What, what? And the Kafarsky, it also turns out that the People's Party. Two men. Well, then be determined, I don't understand. I'm betting on a vote by Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, a faction of Communists. Please vote. [[11:39:54]] For a hundred and Well, dear fellows, please! Peter Petrovich, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:40:18]] For-136 Kafari Vladimir Ivanovich, faction of the People’s Party Please vote. Please vote. [[11:40:41]] For-142 Now the Committee on Budgets. May I have your attention, fellow officers? I'll read the last names here, most of all. Tkachenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, Communist faction; Maceinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, “Regions of Ukraine”; Asadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, Ukrainian People's Party; Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna; Master Vladimir Yakovic, People's Party; Chronvolunko Alexander Vilenović, National Movement of Ukraine; and King Viktor Mikolaiovich, “Our Ukraine”; and Konovaluk. The King. The King's microphone. And Konovaluk Valerius Illich, “Trust of the People”. Please, Victor the King's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the distinguished audience. I ask that my candidacy be withdrawn from the discussion on the head of the Committee on Budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u126	Thank you for being constructive. Yes, the first is put to the vote according to the deadlines for the nomination of Tsakchenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists. Please vote. [[11:42:17]] For-97 Makinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of “Ukraine”. Please vote. [[11:42:38]] For 111 Assadchev Valeriy Mikolaiovich, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Please vote. Excuse me, Assadchev Valeriy Mihajlovich, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Please vote. [[11:43:00]] For the 180. The wife of Ludmila Pavlovna. Please vote. [[11:43:22]] For a hundred and Master Vladimir Jakovic, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:43:44]] For 101 Blackwolf Alexander Vilenović, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:44:07]] For-92 Konovaluk Valerius Illich, a group of MPs “Trust of the People”. [[11:44:32]] For-48 Dear colleagues, can you see if something's not working or what? Is something not working? Please make sure everyone works on the vote. Now the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. The candidates are read out, honorary colleagues, Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich, Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich, Vasilev Alexander Andriyovich, Leapina Ksenija Mikhailovna. [[Communist faction]] [[The People’s Party]] [[faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine]] [[“Ukraine”]] [[“Our Ukraine”]] Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, Communist faction, is the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please vote. [[11:45:39]] For-90 Guru Vadim Mikolaiovich, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:46:02]] For 168 Guriev Vasil Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine [[11:46:25]] For 114 Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine”. [[11:46:50]] For 118 And Leapina Kseniya The Mikhail faction Our Ukraine. [[11:47:13]] For 139 Committee on Foreign Affairs, Head of the Committee - Grachev Oleg Alexiyovich, Communist faction; Ostaj Igor Ivanovich, Reform and Order faction; Bichkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Yes, I'm putting to the vote Gracheva Oleg Alexiyovich's position as Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:47:54]] For 131 The rest of Igor Ivanovich, “Reform and Order” faction. [[11:48:16]] For 214 Bichkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. [[11:48:41]] For 209 Yes, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Head of the committee of Mishur Valeriy Dmitrovitch, Communist faction; Sharma Igor Mihajlovich, faction of the Social Democratic Party; Yavorovsky Vladimir Alexanderovich, faction of Reform and Order. [[united]] I'm betting on Mishura Valery Dmitrovicz, a faction of Communists. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[11:49:20]] Z-85 Šurma Igor Mihajlovich is a faction of SDPU. Please vote. [[11:49:43]] For 177 Javorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, “Reform and Order” faction. [[11:50:05]] For 171 Yes, the Committee on European Integration, the chair of the committee: Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, People's Party; Zjevonov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich, People's Movement of Ukraine and Lebedivsky Valerij Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine”. I'm betting on the vote of Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:50:43]] For 211 Zvojnov Mikhailo Aleksandrovich, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. [[11:51:05]] For-97 Lebedivsky Valeriy Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. [[11:51:26]] For-99 The Special Committee on Privatization is the head of the commission: Matviev Vladimir Josephovich is a faction of Communists, Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna - “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaplačinski Vladimir Mihajlovich is a non-fractional faction, Bastrig Ivan Mihajlovich is a faction of the Party “Industries and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine” and Davymuk Stepan Antonovich is a faction of the “National Movement of Ukraine”. Yes, I am putting Matthew Vladimir Josephovich to the vote as chairman of the Privatization Commission, a faction of Communists. Please vote. [[11:52:18]] For-95 Kirichenko Ludmila Fedorovna, faction of “Ukraine”. Please vote. [[11:52:40]] For-147 Plaštinsky Volodymyr Mikhajlovich. Please vote. [[11:53:02]] For 175 Well, check the system, please. What, what? Yes, I understand, dear colleagues. Bastriga Ivan Mikhailovich, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. [[11:53:38]] For 111 Davemuk Stepan Antonovich, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. [[11:54:05]] For 1052 The Committee on Finance and Banking, the office of First Deputy Head of the Committee, two vacancies. They claim to be: Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch, Communist faction; Svašaš Dmitro Volodymyrovic, People's Party faction and Hmotinnik Vitali Juriovich, faction of “Ukraine”. I'm betting on the vote of Puzakov Vladimir Tikhović, a faction of Communists. Please vote. [[11:54:45]] For-99 Dmitry Volodymyrovich, faction of the People's Party. Please vote. [[11:55:07]] For-125 Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich, faction of “Ukraine”. Please vote. [[11:55:30.]] For-182 Dear colleagues! An interesting situation was that when the Attorney General was voted on, everything worked. I'm asking you to sit down for the month, and I'm going to announce the results of our rating vote. Thus, honourable colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine includes the following nominations for the positions of committee heads: the construction and local self-government of Slaut Viktor Andriyovich - 208 votes; the Committee on the Protection of Motherhood and Childhood What? Well, wait, please. I have to read the list. Dear colleagues, we can't re-vote, unfortunately. Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood Mihailo Lukovic is a group of 156 votes. Science and Education Committee. Rodionov Mikhailo Kuzmić is 145 votes. Budget Committee. Ludmila Pavlovna’s wife, 159 votes. Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship Guru Vadim Mikolaiovich: 168 votes. Committee on Foreign Affairs. The remaining Igor Ivanovich is 214 votes. A committee on freedom of speech and information. Igor Mikhailovich's storm is 177 votes. European Integration Committee. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich is 211 votes. Special Privatization Monitoring Commission. Plaštinski Volodymyr Mihajlovich – 175 votes. Committee on Finance and Banking. In the positions of first intercessors. [[There are 2 posts]] The first deputy head of the committee is Homatinnik Vitali Yuriovich and Sváš Dmitr Volodymyrovich. [[182 votes]] [[125 votes]] So please mobilize. I'm announcing. 3 minutes, please log in. Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u127	Maria Marcus. Dear colleagues! We have now conducted a rating vote for the positions of committee heads, deputy committee heads. I would very much like to support you with your nomination from the Communist Party of Ukraine, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u128	Thank you. Korsakov, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u129	Vladimir Mihajlovich, word Raise Vasilievne to the Richter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u130	Please, Raisa Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u131	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! We have seen so much “voices” during our work in the Supreme Council that perhaps no one will be surprised by what I am about to say. Vladimir Mikhailovich, why I insisted. What with your faction was an agreement on mutual support for the position of head of the Health Committee. And it was your faction that failed to fulfill its obligations. That's why I'm asking everyone to vote on the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u132	I'm sorry to hear that, Raisa Vasilovna, what you said. If there is an agreement, it was necessary to carry out them, fellow believers, all of them. But unfortunately, we have to re-vote it all over again. I might say, Raisa Vasilovna, darling, well, what can I say? Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u133	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues, today we have a situation in which the post of First Preposition of the Budget Committee has become vacant. Accordingly, there must be some sense, and it would probably be right if we were with you now, among those who have not passed, but who have been nominated, to identify the person who will be the first Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Today, now, in this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, we must first appoint the head of the committee and then appoint the first deputy. So we have the first two deputies. Please, Omelchenko Alexander, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u135	I'd like a word with Kendeur.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u136	Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u137	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of the Ukrainian People's Movement. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! This option of determining the candidates who should go to the vote in the package, as this rating vote has shown, is probably not true, because there are 120 or how many votes, and this person should lead, having a committee and having such little support in the session room. And if a committee on freedom of speech and media is going to have an ambulance, we can imagine what level of work this committee will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to take all members of our team seriously. Yes, please! I want to do it again, Your Honor. No last name, please, dear colleagues, let's vote. We'll vote, then we'll vote. Mobilize, please. I call once again the names and positions of the committee heads: from the questions of State building and local self-government Slava Viktor Andriyovich, the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, the Committee on Science and Education, the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, the Committee on Budget Issues Suprun Ludmila Pawlovna, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, the Committee on Industrial Policy, the Committee on Industrial Integration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rest of Igor Ivanovich, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on European Integration, the Zalejer Mihajlovich, the Committee on Economics and Social Affairs, the Committee on Economic and Social Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. I'm voting on these candidates for the election of committee heads and deputy committee heads. What about it? We made a deal with you. Package, of course. [[12:03:21]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address all nationals. Please calm down. I want to speak to all the national MPs. When we made an agreement, you obviously had to demonstrate your arrangements for the same outcome. Please welcome Mishura Valeriy Dmitrovic. The faction leaders are requested to consult on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? At the registration desk. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u140	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u141	Dear National Deputies, at the registration desks at table number one, are members of the Counting Commission, Grzezhev and Assadchev. At table two, there are two members of the counting committee, Mother and Kostynuk. Table three, Nadraga and Sobolev are working. The fourth table is Chevchuk and Manchulenko. At the desks of the counting committee, you'll get two ballots. One ballot, you can't talk. Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Another bulletin on the appointment of a member of the higher committee. The High Council of Justice, yes. You'll make two signatures in two different lists. Then you can vote. I would like to remind you that there are 427 national deputies on our list today. For the elections to take place, 284 national deputies must take part in the vote. I invite the people's deputies to take part in the vote. Now we have 12 hours five minutes. The vote takes 40 minutes. So at 12:45 a.m., please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, a recess of up to 12 hours of 45 minutes is announced in order to hold the vote. Please take an active part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We will continue our work, and we will continue to do so. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you while all deputies prepare to continue their work to announce a joyful message. By his decree, the president of Ukraine appointed a full - time minister. The President of Ukraine's permanent representative in the Supreme Council is Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovic. So I wanted to welcome him and express the hope that we would work closely and productively together. If there are any questions for the President of Ukraine, please, through Yuri Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues, the draft "Government Day" in December 2005 is under review. [["The 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES"]] Is there a Gennady Rudenko? Please, very briefly, and we will vote, for we have much work to do, all the more so that we have invited the heads of the district councils. We have to demonstrate how productive we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished representatives. In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a draft Decree on “Government Day” was introduced in the order of the 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl station. I will inform you that on December 15, 2000, the work of the Chernobyl station was stopped – this act was carried out in accordance with the Cabinet Regulation on the Final Stop of the Chernobyl Station of November 29, 2000. To shorten the report, I'll tell you that there have been agreements between the international community, between Ukraine, but lately there has been information in society about the failure to fulfil the obligations of one party or another, whether it's an international community. It is therefore planned to examine the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 14 December 2000 No 2147-3 on the recommendations of participants in parliamentary hearings regarding the closure of the Chernobyl station, as well as other legal and regulatory acts relating to the closure of the Chernobyl station. At our meeting on October 19, we supported the draft decree. The Supreme Council decree of December 14, 2000, No. 2147-3, on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings regarding the closure of the Chernobyl station, provides for the government to be heard annually in December on this issue. Given that two issues have already been planned in the Supreme Council on 13 December, we suggest that the day of the government with the agenda “5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl station” be held on December 14th at 3 p.m. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u145	Yes, please, have a seat. Dear colleagues, despite the fact that we have one Government Day scheduled for this day, the Rules allow for consideration of two issues. With this in mind, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the Government Day in December 2005 with the agenda of the 5th anniversary of the closure of the Chernobyl AES. Registration number 8253. Please vote. [[12:54:15]] For 322 Decision taken, thank you. The draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on Legal and Legislative Settlement of the Problems of Ukrainians Forced from Poland to Ukraine in 1944-1946 and 1951 is announced for consideration. [[December 21, 2005]] Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Hennady Josephovich Udovenko, introduced a draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the legal and legislative regulation of the problems of Ukrainians forcibly evicted from Poland to Ukraine in 1944-1946 and 1951.” On October 19, 2005, the committee discussed the draft decree. The draft decree is made in the order of the legislative initiative in accordance with the first part of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft decision, and this was pointed out on a committee prepared to hold parliamentary hearings to draw the attention of the authorities and the public of Ukraine to the problems of the displaced and their descendants. Give an appropriate political and legal assessment of the stock, identify ways and measures to address a set of issues related to the granting of State compensation for material and moral damage to persons affected by the action. Dear colleagues, most of the votes of the committee were approved by the Committee to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of these parliamentary hearings and hearings are proposed to be held on 21 December 2005 – Wednesday. This day is still free. The only thing I want to add is myself. I would like to add that during 2002, 2003, 2004, it was a question, it was always brought up for consideration by the session and, unfortunately, did not vote because there was a political aspect. I want to say that a lot of letters are coming to our committee, where people are asking to look at this set of issues and to give not so much legal evaluation, but to help these people socially. I also want to say that Ukrainian President Viktor Andryovitch Yushchenko on September 23, 2005 gave a mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers to initiate parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to say that Yushchenko made his proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers -- decree 23 September 2005. So that was after the resignation of Julia Timoshenko's government. And unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers didn't initiate this issue in the Supreme Council. Although ours are the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely: Julius Timoshenko, Alexander Turkinov, Belarus, and your reporter, let's say, have made these projects systematically for three years. But we're obviously not going to wait until we're initiating the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a draft decree for which we highly thank Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko. And I would very much ask you to support this because there are hundreds of thousands of people in this interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, let's define by this vote. We have here for one day on November-December for a plan, we have another one there free, we have December 14 and 21, parliamentary hearings. With that in mind, I'm voting on a draft decision on. Please change. With three minutes of motivation. Sign up. Change the vote, there are those who want to make a statement. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u148	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! I understand that any national MP can make any proposal, including parliamentary hearings. But what I want to understand is what is causing this proposal or the lack of knowledge of current legislation or the desire to speculate on this particular issue. This is about the fact that, indeed, in 44th year, there was a joint decision by the governments of Poland, Ukraine on the mutual migration of, say, Poles from the territory of Ukraine in Poland and vice versa from Poland to Ukraine. If I am not mistaken, it seems two years ago that they changed the Law on the Status of Veterans, the guarantees of their social protection, where the social aspect of the problem has been resolved. I don't think there are any problems today, at large. The other thing that you want to speculate about, especially the electoral days. The faction will not support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u149	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u150	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to vote. I want to talk about procedure. So let's do that. Why do you and I create problems, we get into a discussion, everything else. There is a room that has been asked, the rapporteur has been promoting why he has come out with this initiative, what he wants to achieve and everything else. We have an important bill on our agenda today, a change to the 2005 budget. We're with you instead of just voting, we're in a discussion that, in my opinion, in this case, does not change anything radical. Let us vote in favour of this order and see what we can do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u151	Sergey, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u152	Our Ukraine faction, Sergey Žizko. I think that this is very important for hundreds of thousands of people in Ukraine to consider, because it has not been discussed in detail. And for argument's sake, please pass the word to Michael Kosev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u153	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u154	Mikhailo Kosov. Dear colleagues, we really need to know the laws that the Communist gentlemen are calling for, because the resettlement treaty was adopted on September 9th, 44th. But without this agreement, they moved into the years that followed, forced movement, and besides the principles of Soviet Communist legislation, there was one principle and one law -- voluntarily.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u155	Please, Andrew School, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u156	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to stress that this is really a problem for hundreds of thousands of people. This is the problem of tens of thousands of people -- the inhabitants and my constituency -- of Lvivščina, of Plains, of Volina, of Frankish, of Ternopilščina. One day, a huge crowd was evicted from their homes. And unfortunately, they were thrown in the middle of a crossroads, and no one cared about them, they did. Now, I think we could at least do this at the hearing. And the rest of the time, I'm asking you to tell Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u157	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u158	Thank you very much. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, last year when we adopted 380 votes in favour of the law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis, then we agreed from this rostrum that the next step would be to consider how to deal with the problems of people who were deported by other signs, including, above all, deported Ukrainians. I think we should just be consistent and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u159	Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding of parliamentary hearings on the legal and legislative settlement of the problems of Ukrainians forcibly evicted from Poland to Ukraine in 1944-1946 and 1951 is submitted to the vote. [[December 21, 2005]] Yes, there goes the vote. Please vote. [[13:03:16]] For 204 The decision is not taken. On which question, please. Please, it's a Dragniboka microphone. Let's do the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u160	Thank you. Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A few weeks ago, when we were discussing agenda issues, questions that I proposed were put into the agenda, a draft decree for parliamentary hearings on the recognition of UN-OPA. Then the chairman was Adam Martinyuk, who said that the question would be heard within the week. Then, at the offer of the Communists, this issue and a number of others were transferred to two weeks of time. It's been a few weeks. For some reason this question is not about voting. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to keep those promises made by the then chairman, Mr. Adam Martinyuk. And likewise, Adam Ivanovich, please do not abuse your position of service. Yesterday, when you read my parliamentary request for destruction, the dismantling of Lenin, Kosiore, and Petrovsky’s monuments in Kiev, you did not read that these were the executions of the Ukrainian people and those who caused the famine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the Secretariat, I ask you to raise your transcripts, take a look and prepare information for the People's Deputy as well as for the Presidium. Yes, the results of the vote. The Communist faction - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 10, National Party - 7, "Our Ukraine" - 39, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 20, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU (o) - 20, "Forward, Ukraine!" - 0, "Trust of the People" - 7, "Reforms and Order" - 13, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 1, National Movement of Ukraine - 13, "One Ukraine" - 9, "Afterfractional" - 12. Dear colleagues, the chairman of the Counting Commission, Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, has a word to announce the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the results of the vote. First. Protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They heard about the secret ballots for the election of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following candidatures were included in the secret ballot for the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Hare Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Konovaluk Valerija Ilić, Kostenka Yuri Ivanovich. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission has established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have been recognized as having been recognized is 427; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received ballots for secret ballots is 161. According to part one of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and chapters 3.7, 4.3. The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission, decided to consider the elections to be such that they did not take place. Next. Protocol No. two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the summary of the secret ballot on the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice. In a secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice, Eudemimov’s candidate, Aleksandrovitch, was included in the ballot. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Counting Commission has established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies who are recognized as having been recognized are 427; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received ballots for secret ballots is 157. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles of the Eighth Law of Ukraine “On the Higher Council of Justice”, chapter 3.7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Counting Commission decided to consider the elections as not taking place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, we accept the information. I understand what Victor Terrence wants to talk about. Let's do this: in order to continue our work, we had practice, and then I'm going to put it to a vote. Who wants to go back to Project 8233: Parliamentary hearings on the subject, please be sure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:07:55]] For 206 The decision is not taken. Yes, respectable national MPs, two factions. Please, dear fellows, please, come on, everyone who wanted to has arrived. Further work, please find out the factions of your position. Two factions in accordance with the Rules ask for a recess, “Go, Ukraine!” and the People’s Party. Or a statement. Yeah? Vadim Gurov, please, three minutes in established practice. And now we're going to prepare, and we're going to look at the changes to the budget. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u164	Vadim Gurov, Kriubas, People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national wisdom claims that it is difficult to live with someone who does not have money. Our situation today with the reprivatization of Crevices and the arrival of an unusually large sum of money shows that the distribution of this money is no less difficult. More than a dozen bills have been introduced to the Supreme Council, but why is it that everyone forgets and where and from? Who made them? At what price? As the root of the crusader who gave to Krivoriztali for over 35 years, I have the right to claim that this money was earned by heavy after and by blood, the cost of heavy casualties, the loss of health, the worst human development indicators in Ukraine in the city of Bloody Rose. This money is made by poachers, not just by the workers of the combination. Although it is not possible to separate the poachers from the entire population of the Horn of Curve, it is about 60,000 workers. Add here their families, loved ones, areas of service, and so forth. And if you think about it, the biggest polluter of the environment is Krivoriztal, and here are the 300 thousand tons per year of emissions into the atmosphere, 50 million cubic metres of sewage, and 41 million tons of waste per year, and the collapses and shifts of land in residential areas. Further results of the “Criminal” activity are evidenced by eloquential figures that indicate disease in the city, infant mortality, oncology, tuberculosis. Total mortality by one thousand increased from 14.7 in 1995 to 17.1 percent. Child mortality is constantly higher than 25 percent in the region and Ukraine. Scary numbers and very eloquent. The city is dying, and human development has reached a critical limit. Would anyone in this room deny that urgent and unusual measures are needed to save the city of Bloody Horn, its population? I don't think so. So I personally and my colleagues in the faction of the People's Party make an offer. One percent of the funds that the State receives from the reselling of “Criminals” are directed towards the rescue of the city of the Horn of Curves and its inhabitants. To protect health, improve the environment, and so forth. This will be clear, logical, and timely. The people of Ukraine will support the cockroaches. I'm sure of it. Please consider my speech a faction proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the withdrawal of the People's Party faction and the membership of the MP group “Trust of the People” Melnikov. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People's Party, this is an announcement. May I have your attention, please? For consideration, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other primary expenditure. Second reading. Such regulations are proposed, fellow believers. Brief information from the committee head. Then there's the amendment, and there's the vote. Because it's here. There can be no answer, it's a second reading. Oh, yes, after the chairman of the committee, acting as chairman of the committee, is speaking, the minister of finance from the government. Please, Ludmila Pavlovna, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Budget Committee, in accordance with the Supreme Council’s decree of 22 September 2005, proposes a draft Law amending the 2005 State Budget Act, its registration number 8156, for consideration on second reading. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the first reading, the bill envisioned an increase of 1.5 billion dollars in the general budget of the state budget, of which 1.4 billion dollars were planned to provide additional grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries, municipal services and energy supplies. In the process of drafting the bill, with the participation of Cabinet officials, the Committee examined all proposals made by law enforcement entities. And including the Government's proposals, which were registered in the Supreme Council, in the form of a separate bill, which was called amending the Ukrainian Law on State Budget and Other Legislative Acts. For information, I report that out of 222 proposals, 189 are partially accounted for, 8, taken into account in another row 6, 7 is rejected, and also no decision is taken regarding and, 7 is rejected. Most of the proposals for clarifying the state budget are in line with the Ministry of Finance. In particular, an increase of 2.4 billion dollars in the general budget of the State. Including an increase in income tax by 2.85, VAT from imported goods by 1.8, and a decrease of 2.3 billion from government-owned dividends. The agreed position to increase the government budget deficit by 2.5 billion dollars. Including a total fund of 1.7 billion dollars on the basis of increased revenues from the privatization of state property and 0.8 billion dollars from the Special Investment Fund, more specifically, coming from international financial institutions for the implementation of investment projects. The transfer of an agreed additional resource of 4.1 billion dollars is also in line with the Cabinet of Ministers. For additional subsidies to local budgets to cover salaries, municipal services, energy supplies worth 500 million, pension deficits – 2.8 billion dollars, 50 million dollars – for construction of metropolises, for the formation of the Agrarian Fund – 350 million, for the financing of the “Oncology, Tuberculosis, AIDS” programme – 17 million, social security payments, power and law enforcement agencies, etc. So we supported the government's proposal for reduction. They also supported the government’s proposal to reduce the scope of the Special Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u167	Allow the committee head to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u168	Thank you. To compensate for citizens' savings due to their debt for residential services, because according to the estimates, not 6 billion, but only up to 3 billion can they actually be paid off in 2005. At the same time, there is an acute problem: this is the question of amending other legislation to determine the maximum amount of 12 minimum pensions offered by the government. I can tell you, my fellow Members, that this is the biggest problem with this bill, because all other proposals are agreed upon by the Committee and the Ministry of Finance and can form a comprehensive bill. If such a proposal is not taken into account, it is necessary to increase the expenditure of the Pension Fund by 128 million dollars by the end of this year. I can say that this issue on the committee has become the biggest discussion, it's quite problematic, because, as you know, in March 2005, the law on amending the State Budget Act and some other legislative acts were introduced by you and I have made certain restrictions on the payment of pensions. This restriction has been set at the level of the total tax income from which insurance contributions to social funds are paid. What is happening today? At the committee meeting, it was proposed and voted down to reject the government's proposal to amend these legislative acts. But the Cabinet of Ministers disagrees with this proposal and insists on voting. That is why, according to the Rules, we should be dealing with you in the Hall. My point is that wage formation has become a stumbling block for this government, since raising wages from above and not raising it or at least increasing it from below has been the greatest social injustice. What should the commander do if he wants to lead the people and the people? He must, in the first place, raise his salary down there, and keep himself at that level to that extent until the wages below rise to his level and only then raise his salary on the mountain. Balancing the cost of work led to this. I think there's been a pay gap. Today, we have a minimum pension of 384 dollars for citizens, and we have citizens who now have a pension of over 30,000 dollars, even though not enough. But if today's government's decision on the order of payroll continues to work, instead of the 10,000 people who are now entitled to a pension of more than 4,000, there will be tens, hundreds, thousands and the size of the pension gap between the minimum and the receiving category or those categories of citizens will be huge. Of course, it is the primary responsibility of the one who makes decisions about the funds to pay for the work. You know, according to the Constitution, there's only one institution in Ukraine that has the right to set this size: the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's why we think this problem is systemic. The committee suggested that this amendment should be removed from the text of the law and made a separate legislative act. But I can say that's going to be a problem. We discussed the possibility of introducing such a restriction for 2005 even if for two months until the government ordered the wages and the Wages Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u169	Ludmila Pavlovna, finish. Let's get this over with. The second reading goes to us, what we're going to tell. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u170	So I ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote this very proposal to the government because all other proposals are agreed. Once again, if this proposal is not supported, it will be necessary to increase the expenditure of the Pension Fund by 128 million by the end of this year and we will have a balanced budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u171	Thank you. Come on, Ludmila Pavlovno, we're going to ask the Minister of Finance for this and we're going to vote on the amendments. Please. If you don't mind, please sit down for a while and then we'll go after the repairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u172	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft budget changes are more than ever close to the agreed version, worked with the budget committee. I don't want to stop at the questions we agreed on, I just want to introduce you to the overall balance sheet results of the budget changes. I ask you to show us the budget that we have for today. What is the balance of this budget? Please turn it on. Income - 106.7 billion - 113.8 or deficit 7.1 - 1.7 percent. The draft changes that we're looking at today provide for a 9.5 percent deficit balance or 2.3 percent of GDP. The main component of the fund is the increase in income from 81.1 billion to 83.5 billion. Expenditures are increasing from 88 to 92.1. In other words, the deficit of 6.9 billion, 1.6 percent of GDP, goes up to 8.5 billion or 2 percent of GDP. What accounted for the increase in general fund expenditure? Sophia Pauline spoke in part about this. First. A change in income, an increase in income, we have a change in the income of budget 2.4 in the economy of expenditure, the rest is balanced by deficit. Yet, the only problem remains. Following the decisions taken by the Constitutional Court, there was an entirely abnormal situation concerning discrimination against the absolute number of Ukrainian pensioners. They were divided into varieties. The first class, the majority of pensioners, will receive a pension of 1 percent per year. There is a higher class of pensioners who receive a pension under special pension laws of 90 percent of their earnings. In other words, the first category takes 90 years of employment to have the same pension as under special pension laws. Under these conditions, a worker with a salary of five thousand dollars will never have the pension of a minister, a national deputy of Ukraine, a prosecutor, an investigator, a customs officer, and so on. Dear friends, we have no right to allow harsh, unjustifiable differentiation of pensions. When the minimum pension in Ukraine is 332 bracelets and under special pension systems, the pension may amount to tens of thousands of dollars and for those. Who gets a pension in the last month, a million dollars a month. Dear friends, the salaries have nothing to do with this, because the bonus is not limited by any legislative acts. In this regard, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine insists on introducing a maximum pension limit of 12 minimum subsistence minimums.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u173	Please let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u174	This sum is four thousand dollars. First of all, it's not that small a pension -- it's $800 a month. Second, this size is going to increase every year. The minimum pension for citizens is increasing, and the maximum pension limit is increasing. Without such a decision, the country faces serious pension problems. The head of the committee said that if these proposals were rejected by the end of the year, the Pension Fund was not balanced, because someone would have to pay tens of thousands of pension dollars for not paying 332 bracelets. So the Cabinet of Ministers is asking us to include our 27-35 rights in the vote, and they apply to the introduction of this rule on the marginal size of the pension. And at this point, we're ready to support the entire bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's make this happen, the distinguished national MPs, this is the second reading. Now we're going to go to the amendments, vote, because that's not the way we're going to go about it. The Cabin insists on its amendments. Then, the first amendment of Kabmin. A. One minute, I know the drill. There's a second reading procedure, I'm going through the second reading procedure. Please. Vladimir. They insist on the amendments, I have to put them. Second reading procedure! I'm going through the second reading procedure! Correction, vote, that's all. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The government insists on voting from 27 to 35 amendments. [[This is an amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers.]] I just said, well, you can't listen. Vladimir Julius! I want to reiterate that the government insists on voting for amendments 27 to 35. But in order to vote on these amendments, we must first vote on Amendment 1. Well, that's what I'm saying. Yes, amendment 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers is put to the vote. Just a minute. Please, calm down! I'd like to make a statement. [[13:26:25]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Please, have a seat. As amended, please explain. 27 - 35. They're complex, we have to vote on them at the same time. I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u176	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! 27-35 allowances provide for one by the content of the standard under all other special pension laws, which by the end of 2005 imposes a maximum pension limit of 3,960 dollars. I very much ask my colleagues to look at other pensioners and make the right moral decision!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u177	Please be seated by the amendment. Well, there's no performance here. That's what I'm going to say -- I'm going to say, my fellow Members, my position -- is to be governed by a separate law. But since the amendment is, they insist, I put it to a vote. Amendments 27 - 35 of the government are put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:52]] For 106 The decision is not taken. Well, please, by the factions. Communists – 1, “Ukraine” – 0, The People's Party – 1, “Ukraine” – 30, Block Timoshenko – 2, SPU – 14, Ukrainian People's Party – 24, SDPU(o) – 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” – 0, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 12, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 3, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, “One Ukraine” – 0, “Afterfractional” – 4. Carmagine was an amendment to the repair. Please, it's Carmazine's microphone. And we're going to be able to figure it out. Invite the deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You have really followed the Rules. I want to tell you that the State Budget Act changes nine laws to basic laws, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, without considering them on the Committees. Today, we leave the pension of the military, the persons in charge, and the ranks of internal affairs, the Chernobylites. And so in the basic laws of scientists, all of them, and civil servants, the basic laws propose to make changes. Let's not make any changes. This contradicts the Rules, and I firmly oppose such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u179	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council did not support the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers in this regard. Now, according to the Rules, may I have your attention, please? – I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2005. Change the vote. Pinzenic. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! According to budgetary legislation and the Constitution, the budget should be balanced. We reported to the Budget Committee, and there are accounts of Minfin, since Parliament has rejected the government’s proposals to limit the maximum amount of pension, resulting in a deficit of 128 million dollars in the Pension Fund. The head of the budget committee also spoke of this deficit. In other words, there is now an unbalanced document that needs to be redesigned, because the Pension Fund has not provided adequate funds to pay pensions of 10,000 dollars per million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u181	Yes, sign up for motive, three minutes, and invite the national deputies to the session room. With a motive of three minutes. I'm asking you, don't shout, come on, please. Rodionov Mikhailo, please. Let's get together and we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u182	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Please pass the word Zibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u183	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u184	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled People of Cibenko Mr. Secretary of Finance, who doesn't know where to get the pension funds. There are different dimensions of justice. One measure, he showed, and I want to show the other. And where the fair is that a citizen who gets 200, 300, 500 dollars from each penny pays the pension fund, and a person who has income pays the pension fund only 4 thousand 100 dollars, and everything that's above is not taxed. Excuse me, is that fair? So the faction suggests, let's take into account all budgets and the Pension Fund, including the full amount not only of wages, but of all income. And then it's enough to provide for all categories of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u185	Kirilo Polishchuk, “Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u186	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u187	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u188	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, political party “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, what we have just heard, repeated speeches by the finance minister are nothing more than an attempt to distract the general public from a complete failure in the economic policy of today's oranges. No step has been taken to implement the concept of reforming the pay system. That is what the pension depends on, not the other way around. Demagogy in the activities of today’s authorities is repugnant. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, an effort to get my eyes dirty, and I urge everyone to vote in second reading for the 2006 budget bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u189	Stanislav Kosinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u190	Kosinov, Vladimir Litvina People's Block. Dear colleagues, in voting for this amendment, we must take into account one fact: there is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly indicates that any restrictions on pensions, wages, constitute a violation of human rights. We must therefore understand this clearly and, if this is to be considered, only by a separate bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u191	Yes, please, Kruc, our Ukraine faction. Is that a turn? Please. No, it's all right then. Yes, Valentin Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u192	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valentin Zubov, Yulia Timoshenko Cell Block, All-Ukrainian Motherland Association. Dear friends, we are looking at a really, really urgent, very serious, very painful problem. But as the Minister of Finance is present here, I would like to say that I support my colleagues as the People's Deputy of Suha and others. We must do everything we can to ensure that people in Ukraine today make good money, and then all pension problems will be put in place. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as long as the Press Secretary of the President of Ukraine receives a personal salary of 18,000 bracelets, do not come to the courtroom at all with such proposals. Set an order there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u193	Yes, I thank you for all your statements and suggestions, my fellow Members, in accordance with the requirements of Ukraine's regulations, I am voting on the proposal of the Second reading Committee and, in general, as a law, the draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Ukraine's 2005 State Budget. [[on grants to local budgets to ensure payment of salaries and other priority expenditure]] Registration number 8156. Please vote. [[13:35:27]] For 281 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues. The factions? Please. Communists - 54, “Regions of Ukraine” - 48, National Party - 44, “Our Ukraine” - 20, Block Timoshenko - 26, SPU - 23, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, SDPU (o) - 0, “Forward, Ukraine!” - 19, “Trust of the People” - 9, “Reforms and Orders” - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 8, National Movement of Ukraine – 2, “Only Ukraine” - 10, non-fractional – 17. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, a new edition. The committee asks for a transfer because a number of positions need to be reconciled? Is there no objection? A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code for children deprived of parental care is being announced for consideration. Second reading. Victor Musiak. Dear colleagues, I would very much like us to work quickly and follow the amendments. If there is a warning, we need to make many more decisions today. We've already stalled some of the questions. Victor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, you are invited to read for a second reading of the amendment to the law, the Ukrainian Family Code for Children Deprived of Parental Care. Before the second reading, 67 changes were proposed. Of these, 52 are included. I'm asking in second reading mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u195	Who insists on amendments that are unaccounted for? Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please. No, it's not. Carmazin must express his correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u196	Edit number four. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, your honor, Victor Lavrentiovich! I propose that the parental rights of the second part of the first article of 164 be set forth in the following wording: " Avoid their responsibilities to raise a child, including by removing parents from their obligations to obtain them from underage, underage children from preschool, general secondary education, and in a vicious escape from alimony payments.” Because the current edition is much narrower. And I want to complement these kids. And I think that it will also have a educational significance in relation to those parents who are really avoiding such responsibilities as to get them to be underage, underage children of education so that they don’t have to be fruitful and just grow up ignorant and so that they can be happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u197	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, distinguished colleagues! The thing is, when you make a decision to leave a valid editorial, you get out of what it is in general, it's an editorial. I read: “It avoids fulfilling its responsibilities to raise a child.” That all that Yuri Anatolyevich is offering, all of that is included in this general formula. Well, in principle, you can accept it. Well, don't forget anything later when this list goes. Is there any other situation that will clear up? Huh? Agreed? You want me to vote? You agreed, didn't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u198	It's a good thing you agree. He's asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u199	Oh, for God's sake! Let's vote. I'm just explaining that when we made decisions, we came up with a formula that's actually in the family code. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, Yuri Karmazin’s fourth amendment is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:39:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Who's to go back to Amendment No.4 of Yuri Carmazin? Please vote. [[13:40:13]] For 185 The decision is not taken. What are the other adjustments? Who insists? Carmazine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u201	Honourable Victor Lavrentiovich, 6th Amendment, Part 1 of Article 169 adds to what is and what is stated in this edition: Mother, father, deprived of parental rights, after one year of the court’s decision to disqualify the parental rights have the right to appeal to the court for the renewal of parental rights. So I'm saying that there's a year before that that you can't talk about, that's a year ago, if it's a punishment for what he's done improperly, doing his job, and that's a privilege, that you have the right to appeal to the court a year later about the restoration of your parental rights. I'd like to ask you to set that term. I don't understand why you can't agree with him, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u202	The fact is that in this case it is not just a privilege, let’s say, to turn to your parents in a year, which is the right of your child to have parental care. Thus, it was meant that if it was clearly established that in the matter of conversion, for example, eight months later, these parents could be trusted, all the circumstances would testify, then the question of the restoration of parental rights could be asked. So it was not limited at the time, if you say a year, that a child without a parent would be up to a year if he could have, say, a normal family of seven months. This resulted when decisions were made to leave a valid editorial. Here it is suggested that, I point out, a year should be set so that when parents are deprived of their parental rights, they can only ask a year from now about the restoration of these rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u203	I'm voting on Amendment No. 6 of Yuri Carmazin. [[13:42:33]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Yuri Anatolyovich, your amendment that you still insist on? Microphone, please, the twelfth amendment is there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u204	Dear friends! I've got amendment number twelve. I ask that article 211 put it this way: “A child’s adopter may be an effective person who has reached the age of 25 on the date of the adoption decision.” The point is, for the time being, a full - time person is offered an effective one, such an editorial. And I insist that this should be a person who is 25 years old. It should be a mature person, not just 18 years old and that's all. We give him a child, with a child that he did not give birth to, but a child that is the acquisition of a state, a society. So I would ask you to seriously approach a mature age of 25, which is exactly the age when a person can be responsible for taking a child and raising a full member of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u205	We have come from the fact that an adult can be fully responsible for his actions even when he asks about the possibility of his being recognized as an adoptive father and giving him such a right. But when it comes to giving an extra term, let's say, 7 years, up to 18 years, 7 years, maybe that makes sense. Because, indeed, it is necessary for a person to have some experience in life who wants to be an adoptive parent. Even more so, it is not about a child born alone but about the adoption of a child born to others. So I'm assuming that we can, in principle, support this proposal, let it go. We're not going to meet Yuri Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u206	Amendment 12 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:45:12]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, who else insists on their amendments that have not been taken into account? I can't see. Please prepare for the vote. An important bill. There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[for children deprived of parental care]] Registration number 4411. Please vote. [[13:45:56]] For 309 The law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u207	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u208	A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is being announced for consideration. [[on the right to retire]] I announce that we continue our work for up to 14 hours 15 minutes to complete the second reading of the bill. Please, Anatoly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u209	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Head, national MPs, voters! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, prepared for second reading. [[Register 6131]] The bill proposes a new edition of part of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, according to which local self-governance officials who have served in elected positions in local self-government bodies for eight years or more or for two or more years of full-time recruitment for men of not less than 25 years and for women of not less than 20 years of age have the right to retire government officials regardless of the period during which they worked in such positions and their retirement time. During preparation for the second reading, the committee received seven suggestions from legislators. Five of them are included in a total of one part and one is rejected. Offer. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government proposes that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a whole. Unless John Stepanovich Plush is noticed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u210	Yes, the remarks were. proposals not taken into account by John Stepanovich Plush and Mikhail Vasilovich Kosiv. Please turn on the Kosovo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u211	Mikhailo Kosov, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Dear colleagues, in my first reading, we received 286 votes for this law, of which I was the author. I don't insist that my proposal be taken into account, but that's what John Stepanovich Plush's proposals are, and I'd like to say that we've been working on it for a long time, and we've agreed on what it is. That his proposal is absolutely correct, but it may refer to another law that we will undoubtedly work on and take into account that is not included in this law, because it does not fit the legal framework here. And so I ask you, since there are no more unaccounted for proposals, to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u212	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, I confirm that John Stepanovich Plush's proposal was right to include individuals and those who had worked in the archways before, and so on, and we really agreed that this could be a new bill, and today I ask you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There is a motion for a second-reading committee to vote and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government. [[on the right to retire]] Registration number 6131. Please vote. [[13:50:02]] For 287 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Subcommittee, Resnik Igor Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u214	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In April of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Bespalim and Bondarenko. In the course of drafting the bill for the second reading by the committee, three observations were taken fully into account. The final draft of the bill is complemented, in our view, by the principled positions. The cost of the merger is distributed among all owners of the premises, not in proportion to their share of the property in general use, but in proportion to the total amount of their contributions and obligations for maintenance and repair of the property, the corresponding share of the total property, and other common expenses in the apartment building. If you own the place. Regardless of his membership, he owes it to this association, his sum exceeds the amount of his share in the property, and he refuses to pay that debt, the dispute is settled in court. These additions define more clearly the criteria for determining the size of each person’s stake in a multi - apartment building, regardless of whether he or she is a member of a unit, and are aimed at solving problems when the debt of a multi - apartment house resident in which a merger is created is greater than his or her share in the property union. The bill is accepted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the committee proposes to adopt the draft Law amending the Law on the Unification of Owners in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, a committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. Registration number 6049. Please vote. [[13:52:24]] For 292 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Nadra Code, registration number 3520, has been announced for consideration. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] Reporter Hennaday Rudenko. Is it Rudenko? Please prepare the Axe to. about inadmissibility. Let's do some repairs right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u216	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Environmental Policy is submitting for consideration by the Supreme Council in its second reading a draft law amending the Code of Nadra. [[about the charge for using the nagrass]] The committee processed, took into account almost all the proposals that came from the national deputies, and this is reflected in the comparative table. The proposals include the opinion and recommendations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. These proposals referred to the deadlines for the execution of assignments by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Also included is the State Tax Administration’s proposal on the need to develop a draft Ukrainian law on the settlement of the issue of the imposition of benefits and the rules on the use of nagrass. The bill has been developed to ensure the approval of the Supreme Council as part of the definition of the principles for the use of natural resources, as approved in article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the elimination of conflicts in Ukrainian legislation regarding the payment for the use of nadrama, the revitalization of the development of relevant normative acts by the Cabinet of Ministers and the increase of budget revenues. The Legal Authority of the Supreme Council recommends that the bill be finalized and resubmitted for second reading. The proposal on the need for the drafting of this bill is that the Legal Authority considers it also appropriate to establish the order of payment for the use of the drama. The committee proposes that this order continue to be established by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account quite often the sharp fluctuations in the market. The Committee recommends a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Code on the Nadra of Deputy Rudzkowski and the Committee's second reading, if there is no objection, to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u217	Yes, dear colleagues, no warnings about the committee's proposal? None. But we do have a draft decision on inadmissibility. Then I'm going to ask you to argue with our colleague Sokirko. Please, if I may, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u218	Mikola Sokirko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Bill 3,520 proposed for our consideration is article 30 of the Ukrainian Code of Nadra to supplement the rule that the order of payment for the use of the drums should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So we delegate some of the legislative powers of the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because according to articles 19, 120 of the Constitution, it is the law that determines the order of action of the executive authorities, including the order of payment for the use of the nagrass. The result of the adoption of the law may be a situation in which a government for its own discretion determines from whom to charge a price on a platter and from whom it does not. It's a straight line to abuse. I am convinced that the government of Yuri Yehanurov will not do so. But we have no confidence that the next Kabin will not allow abuse. I remind you that in 2000, then Prime Minister Viktor Yushchenko, in order to fill the budget and pay people's pensions, abolished dozens of Kabminu decrees that the previous government granted privileges and benefits to various pocket companies. In view of the above, and in accordance with article 3.5. 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I propose a draft of Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Pro Nadra Code to Reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Nadra Code. Registration number 3520/P1. Author of the National MP Sokirko, who has just voiced his position. [[13:56:55]] For-69 The decision is not taken. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. A second reading committee proposal is put to the vote and, as a whole, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Nadras for Nadras for Nadras. Registration number 3520. Yes, please vote. [[13:57:28]] For 204 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? I'm betting on the vote: who's in favour of going back to the draft law, registration number 3520. Go back to the study. [[13:57:51]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Who's in charge of re-reading the bill, registration number 3520. Let's be sure. [[13:58:14]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law “On the Pension Insurance of Military Servants, Persons of Primary and Military Staff, Internal Affairs Authorities and Some Other Persons ” is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Leonid Konstantinovich Kadenyuk. Please, Leonid Konstantinovich, briefly, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear friends, the project has been designed to implement social justice and the rule of law in the pension system of military personnel, primary personnel, military personnel, internal affairs agencies, and some others. Further improvements in pension rules, the introduction of individual laws by Ukraine to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, in the part of the guarantees provided by the State to the relevant categories of citizens. A second reading of the bill included 189 comments and proposals from Ukrainian national deputies, as well as the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and most of the proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Of the proposed comments and suggestions, there are a total of 152, partially four, rejected, or not counted in relation to the exclusion of the standards to which the changes were proposed. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, other legislative acts, and has called for it without notice. What are the main problems associated with this bill? First, it is legal for each of the parents of deceased military personnel to receive a second pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner irrespective of the other type of pension they have received at this time. When we proposed such changes, we introduced the experience of other SND states, such as Russia, Kazakhstan, and others. Second, there is an increase in the pension allowance for the disabled of the first group war. According to a valid law, the war of the first group increases the retirement pension by 400 percent of the minimum pension, that is to say, 450 instead of 400. The third, widows and family members of the deceased military personnel have a 10 - percent increase in pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner. Fourth, individuals who have special merit before the Fatherland, who are worthy of this title and are rewarded for participating in hostilities during the Great Homeland War and the war with Japan, as well as for participating in other fighting activities that have preceded these wars, have previously been promoted by 30 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u221	Let's go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u222	Oh, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u223	We're talking about the law. Now everyone knows this law, Leonid Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u224	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have another little one here. Note: A small collision took place. I would like to remind you, more faithfully, that since there has been a technical error on page 15, I would like to take this into account: In paragraph 3 of Subparagraph 6, to leave the words “at your own request, as adopted in the first reading. In paragraph 4 of this Subparagraph, after the word “which” should be added the word “no”. I mean, it will be “which do not have the right to a pension. And the words “exclusion from the ministry according to your own will because of family circumstances or other important reasons ” exclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u225	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u226	Ten seconds. Make similar changes on page 69, paragraph 2. Well, the committee's looking at this bill. Well, I would like to support this bill, of course, after considering the unaccounted for 33 proposals of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u227	Shall we vote, no warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u228	Yeah, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u229	Unburned, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u230	Dear friends, I address the audience. Even normal designs are sometimes implemented in such a way that they cannot be accepted, especially when it comes to benefits being paid to those who have been released in connection with the systematic failure to comply with the terms of the contract. But 46 amendments are proposed. See what is suggested that those who are released to the reserve but who are immediately prior to their release to the reserve or retirement work: in public authorities, in local self - government bodies, which we still insult everywhere, or in their established bodies, in enterprises, institutions, organizations, the payment of one - time financial assistance was paid at the expense of the organs in which they worked. So if a former military officer had a JEK or a Transport depot, they should pay him money instead of a budget. It's totally wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u231	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u232	That's why your offer is rejected. Since the proposed proposal is not in line with valid legislation, it is simply rejected. If, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u233	Vote amendment 46 of Boris Bespalogo. [[14:04:10]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u234	Thank you. In general, a unique argument is contrary to legislation. That's how we adopt the law to change laws. Retirements are now to be paid to former military officials by CHEK and so forth. It's an absolute destruction of local self-government. This is a huge mistake. It's the 80th. What is it? This includes time spent in fascist concentration camps, ghettos, and other places of forced detention. And that's right, it has to be counted, maybe even double. But what does the committee offer? If no crime has been committed against peace and mankind during the time of being in the designated places. I propose that if no crime has been committed, one that is considered a crime of today's Ukrainian legislation, because Stalin's legislation considered crime, for example, the struggle for Ukraine's independence, Stalin's legislation considered it harmful and other nonsense. We must rehabilitate these people, and therefore we must apply the standards of modern Ukraine. It's an 80 amendment, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u235	Please, 80 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u236	If a person insists, let us vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u237	There are 80 amendments to the vote, by Boris Bespali. [[14:05:47]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Please, Boris Bespalogo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u238	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”, Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I insist on including, firstly, the daily Law on Victims of Politics, because we have those people who have been repressed by the former communist regime, and are now morally repressed. [[new editor]] For example, there are 82 amendments to this. I propose not to be considered a crime against modern - day Ukraine that people in captivity or hostage do not commit crimes that were then considered to be crimes. That's 82 revisions. Imagine, Stalin has declared criminals of all who have been captured, and now we're retranslating it and we think it's people's fault before modern Ukraine. Come on, come on, come on, and at least don't retranslate it now. So I insist that 82 amendments be taken into account. We should apologize to those people, not continue to view them as criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u239	Amendment 82, by Boris Bespali, has been tabled to the vote. [[14:07:19]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Bespalogo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u240	Thank you. It's kind of sad for me, my dear colleagues, that we, having the opportunity to atone for part of our guilt in front of the older generation, which has already suffered, are still continuing this mindless policy of repression that was carried out in Soviet times. 83 The amendment also states that we should include those who served only in line with the treaties and the compulsory work that is now being done by the Supreme Council of today’s Ukraine. I guess so. And standards should be taken into account in accordance with the valid treaties of Ukraine, not according to the standards that once and for all, which rid many of their well - deserved benefits. And once again, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, don't turn off the microphone, I'm talking to you, let's bring in and finally look at the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u241	Boris Yakovitch, I don't mind, let's take a look at the consensus council and figure out and look at it. The vote is on the amendment of Boris Bespalogo, which has just been made. [[14:08:58]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. What are the other adjustments? Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u242	Thank you. Well, I think the law is even useful, which it has such major flaws. Unfortunately, it needs work, or we won't be able to look into the eyes of some of our veterans. 180 amendments are therefore devoted. I propose to delete the second end of the line, which is intended to introduce a moratorium on the expansion of military personnel and persons of the primary and military ranks, which means to introduce a moratorium on. Well, pay them a lot of money. First of all, if this is a payment by the Cabinet of Ministers, we have no right to intervene. Secondly, if we're introducing a moratorium for ourselves, it's completely absurd, because we can always adopt a law that will have higher legal power. I ask in this case to remove this absurd rule of moratorium on allowances and improving the pension of veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u243	The vote is amended by 180 Boris Bespalog. Dear colleagues, we're about to make a decision. I'm asking you to focus. [[14:10:30.]] For-48, The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the amendments that have been insisted upon have been voted upon. We have every reason. What? A tissue, please, a microphone. May I have your attention, please? We have to finish our consideration of the matter. Please, it's Tkalenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u244	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine This is about amendment 155. It was just an editorial or stylistic mistake. The point is that the military commanders, where there will be an increase in the military's financial security in a 10-day period, will report the relevant pension insurance services. That's it. And it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u245	This is page 65, 155 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u246	Yeah, 155th. After the words. One second, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u247	Add next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u248	Yeah, yeah, the next thing you know, it's against pension insurance, well, military commanders report it within 10 days of that increase. I mean, all of this. You can agree with that, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u249	I put to the vote the amendment of 155 National Deputy Tkalenka. Please vote. Let's vote, see if we're ready to vote in general. [[14:12:06]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows, I ask you: Let's vote on the laws, then we will. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we are preparing for the vote. A committee proposal is put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Civil Servants, the Chief Executives, the Military Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons. Registration number 3718-2. Please vote. [[14:12:59]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have here a small law: draft law supplementing article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other states. [[about the callback]] It's all accounted for. Please, Andresuk. And now let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u250	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, may I have your attention? This law is simple. You and I have adopted the Order of Conduct of the Armed Forces Units Act, and we have established an order of recall, remember, but we have not left the right of the Supreme Council to initiate a recall if we have problems there. So we took two decisions with you, we addressed the President, but those decisions didn't work. There is a suggestion to make changes to article 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u251	Manchulenko with motive. Please prepare for the vote. Manchu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u252	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the question is not as clear as it seems. This is about expanding the functions of parliament, which are not foreseen, unfortunately, by the Constitution of Ukraine. It's about making Parliament's proposal to withdraw a contingent from abroad a mandatory rule, to make a decision, and to make it a final decision that the President would have already made, so I think we can't go in this situation to extend these powers by coming out of the requirements of the future Constitution today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u253	Then we must remove the right to give consent to the deployment of the contingent from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-03-m0.u254	And that's it, and logic is going to be the iron thing for us. A draft law on the addition to article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the armed forces of Ukraine to other states on withdrawal, registration number 3416-d, for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. Dear colleagues, there's a vote coming. [[14:15:28]] For 235 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, it is now 14 hours 15 minutes. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
