ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. They registered in the 385 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Ukrainian national deputy Šibka Vitali Jakovic. Let us welcome Vitali Yakovich, and we wish him good health and success. Dear colleagues, the delegation of the Western European Union Assembly to Ukraine is headed by the President of the Assembly, Mr. Stef Horis. The delegation is now in the guest bedroom in the session room. On behalf of the Supreme Council, let us welcome our guests, and we wish us fruitful cooperation. Yes, well-respected colleagues, adverts. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian National Party’s parliamentary faction, National Deputy of Ukraine. Yes, Your Honor, you have a meeting schedule for Tuesday. The two factions ask for a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the consultation, but they are now ready to inform. Yes, yes, but they're ready to report now. about which they called for a break. The word is Ivan Fedorovich Drach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u2	Ivan Durres, Ukrainian National Party. On behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party and the Reforms and Order Party, let me say about the situation that now covers all of us and what has been divisive lately, I would like us to do everything in order to be united. This is about famine in 1933. Yes, there were situations when one part of the hall got up, demonstrated, another very keen and active response to all of this, but let's understand that this is the greatest tragedy of the Ukrainian people, and it requires the most accurate and most painful words. But all of them have been burned by the terrible flame that has plagued them since 1933. Indeed, the most frightening thing to look at is the abyss you fear to fall. The people of farmers and singers tried to make the people cannibals and thieves. We still await the repentance of Russia, Yeltsin, and Putin for the sins of Russia, Lenin, and Stalin, and we set the pattern of German guilt before the Jews and the repentance of Adenauer for Hitler’s guilt. But our generation can't wait, we all understand. We are witnessing major information wars in 33 years of memory, and here we have to give due respect to the Supreme Council, that it made a decision two years ago to create a memorial complex, and different people are looking at it in different ways, but most of the votes for it were very active, and we made this decision. And by the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich, right now at the Ukrainian House, we need this exhibition right here in the Supreme Council so that we can continue this tradition of the Supreme Council to guard the interests of our people's memory. But what do I have to say? On January 1 of the Supreme Council decree, there was to be a memorial complex and a monument. What do you see that monster standing there now? The monster that wars follow, and so on, and remember that there is a great moral aspect to this problem. We know very often that sometimes things happen that are okay, technologically, active and everything, but on the road, cars fall, crash, collapse, and so on. And because this road passes through the cemetery. Our road should not pass through the cemetery, we must remember and know, and realize that if we do not actively take into our souls.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u4	I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear John Fedorovich! We're already at the Conciliation Council on the exhibition demonstration. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is now under review: the draft Order on the appointment of local councils and village, village, city heads in 2006. There are two draft regulations, I'd like to ask Taras Chernobyl, one minute, turn on the microphone to express your position, and we've voted on one document. Please, it's Taras Blackwall's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Two draft decrees have been made, but since the Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina project has been introduced earlier and has been written a little bit more fully there, I'm taking my bill, I'm taking my draft decision and I'm asking everyone to vote in favour of the first draft of the ruling. And I just want to make this point: elections under the Constitution, a certain norm, and very clearly, a very clear rule of law on elections to local councils and local heads can only be held on one day with the election of Ukrainian national deputies, and this day is March 26th. There is no legal basis for making changes and moving them elsewhere. In addition, I would like to point out that the possibility of speculation at the expense of the Supreme Council having lost its term a little bit may be seen as a factor of inactivity that has not resulted in any effect, since the active electoral process starts in 90 days. Hence, there is no legal or organizational basis for the postponement of the election date. And I ask everyone to vote constitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm announcing a draft ruling that's a little bit more specific given what Taras Blackwall said, that the election process starts in 90 days. There are certain coalitions here with the law where we have to adopt changes to the law. I'm going to read this motion for a ruling. “Decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the alternate election of members of the local councils of the fifth vocation and the rural, village, city heads in 2006. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides (1) to appoint alternate members of the local councils for the fifth vocation and the rural, rural, urban heads on Sunday 26 March 2006; (2) to take note that the election process of the local councils for the fifth vocation and the rural, rural, urban heads begins 90 days before the election.” I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. Please vote. [[10:11:04]] For 377 Decision taken. It was said that elections should be postponed, elections postponed, and unity. By factions, please: the Communist faction – 56, the Ukrainian Region – 53, the People's Party – 45, Our Ukraine – 36, the Timoshenko Block – 28, the SPU – 25, the Ukrainian People's Party – 22, the SDPU (o) – 19, the National Block – 19, the People's Trust – 8, the Reforms and Order – 10, the Ukraine – 13, the Ukrainian People's Movement – 12, the Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Party – 11, the non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the Hearing of Prime Minister Yehanurov's Information on the Problems of Ukraine's Socio-Economic Development is under review. I'm explaining the essence, my dear colleagues, of why we should consider this motion for a ruling. On the 14th, if I'm not mistaken, the factions of November decided on the conciliatory council that a speech should be heard, the Prime Minister's information on the processes in the socio-economic sphere that are taking place in the country in order to take a more defined and objective approach to the 2006 draft budget. In accordance with the commission of the Conciliation Board of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment, a draft decision was made. For reasons of five minutes, please write down with five minutes of motivation. Please. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u8	Please give the floor to the national MP Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u9	George Ponomarenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u10	Pomorenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think yesterday at the Conciliation Council, it was not about information, it was about hearing the government report. We wanted the government to report on the budget, at least after nine months. Because there's a budget coming up next year. And prepare for work, prepare for work in winter conditions, and the state of affairs in the countryside. Because the main points in the budget will be the state of affairs in the countryside, financing and local budgets. Hearing the report will provide an opportunity to appreciate the government’s work, commission, and recommendation. And the information is the continuation of yesterday's presidential hearings for the pianist of the respective political parties in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u11	Yes, Alexander Korsakov, faction of “Ukraine”. Alexi, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u13	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u14	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues! Our faction fully supports the point of view expressed by honorary colleague George Ponomarenko. We really need to hear the information, because today we see a report in the form of the Prime Minister's information, because we see a discrepancy between the declarant prices and what is being done in places, especially in the basic areas of the national economy. We suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this information in the form of a report. I mean, allowing the Prime Minister to speak and allow us to ask him questions. Otherwise, it's not a report, it's a pear action. We've already heard one Prime Minister talking about: we've had a great turn-off, we've got great money, and we haven't had the money for investment commitments yet. The liars need to report here in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u15	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u16	Oleg Zarubin Faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The very problem, the very subject of the project that is proposed in the solution format, is absolutely correct. Because everyone understands very well that the problems of Ukraine's socio-economic development are. Because everyone understands that the key points that arise in the decision are the situation of the hot season in the days leading up to the real winter. Questions about tariffs, tariff grids, first and foremost, for budgeters are questions that need to be addressed in the session room. These are the issues that must be addressed by the higher representative body of Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities, who exercise control over the work of the executive branch in accordance with the Constitution. But I agree with previous speakers that there should be more than just a format of information here and at this point. The MPs are supposed to speak, the committee heads have to speak, the national MPs have to speak. So he suggests that we look at it in a different way, not just as information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u17	Andrew School, please. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that one of the previous MPs, Mokry, has given too much attention to who should report and said something about liars. So I would like to remind you that the Prime Minister who formed this faction of “Ukraine” has only told the truth once, and I don't remember when. So I want to point out that the report of course should be to the government, but this report should be clearly based and well-founded. We need to get answers to questions, form them, and thus form the idea of these answers so that this report can only be in full volume. And given this report, we can only then make decisions about supporting a sufficiently well-balanced budget now. So I stress the need to report to the current government in full volume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u19	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. There's no Stepan Ilkovich? Mikhailo Melniczuk then, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u20	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course you should listen to the Prime Minister's information. What's more, it's not clear at all that financing for the construction of gas pipelines, schools, kindergartens that were going to be introduced this year, they're going to be very much at stake. I had just returned from the Chernobyl area, and 300, 400, a million were not funded at all. And so, of course, if the Prime Minister had reported to Parliament, we would have had the opportunity to ask him a question. Why is such a situation, is there a lack of funds in the budget, or is there other reasons? We could have found out in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u21	Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Now. Yeah. The chairman of the committee, Stanisław Ivanovich Hubenko, has the floor. Please. And we're going to go to the vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u22	Hubenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a draft decree prepared for the task of the Conciliation Council with two orders, I would say. And the order of the day is formed entirely within the framework defined by the Conciliation Council. In its proposals for the Rules, the Committee proposes dates for the report to Prime Minister Yehanurov for up to 20 minutes, perhaps 30 minutes. And it's the same time -- I'm calling your attention -- to ask questions and to answer the questions. I think in this format you can get into all the acute problems. And what's more, the data you have on the winter season and energy supply, and the painful problem that the whole community is now concerned about: paying for the work of budget workers. We're talking about, by the way, bottom or top and bottom of the line, we're talking about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Now we're going to put an important question to the vote. At the request of the Conciliation Board, the Committee prepared a draft regulation “On Hearing the Information of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on Ukraine's Problems in Socio-Economic Development in the Current Year and Predicting Ukraine's Further Development for 2006” on December 1st. Another suggestion was that this question should be considered in the form of a report. Therefore, respectable colleagues. But according to procedure and order, I'm the first to put the motion for hearing information to the vote. If the Supreme Council doesn't support this, I'll be putting to the vote the second sentence you insisted on here. That's why I'm asking for your attention! The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On Hearing the Information of Prime Minister Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov of Ukraine on the Problems of the Economic and Social Development of Ukraine” is submitted to the vote, registration number 8501. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:47]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Let's take a vote. May I have your attention, please? – a proposal to hear the Ukrainian Prime Minister's report on Ukraine's socio-economic development in the current year and to predict Ukraine's further development for 2006. Report to the December 1, 2005, issue of Awake! Please vote. [[10:22:27]] For 282 Decision taken. The factions, please. Please, by the factions. The Communists 55, the Ukrainian People's Party 51, the People's Party 44, our Ukraine 0, Block Timoshenko 33, SPU 22, the Ukrainian People's Party 0, SDPU 19, National Block 19, People's House 19, Reforms and Orders 0, Ukraine 14 and Ukraine's People's Movement 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine 2, the non-fractional 21st. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Another extremely responsible question. On the Conciliation Council, we discussed on a number of occasions the need for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, members of the local councils and rural, rural and urban heads, on the number of candidates to be elected. The project was done by a working group. Many questions have arisen. Especially about what is proposed to make some changes to the election system. So in order to form election lists and then put them on election lists after the vote. Only local authorities are involved. The essence of the problem lies in the following. That the political party forms lists, such as in the city council, the Kiev City Council in alphabetical order. Then the MPs are attached to the polling stations, and the vote except for the first five is followed by a reformation of the list. This principle was not upheld by the Conciliation Council. For the first time, though. One minute, give me your word. We agreed that in order to complete the drafting of the law, we need the Supreme Council to define these proposals for conceptual change. So today we're going to put the agenda on inclusion, the vote on inclusion in the agenda of this bill. If it is included and considered, a positive decision is made, then the working group will work on a project that takes into account changes in some conceptual approaches. If not, the task force will be working quickly, by tomorrow we will be working on the draft law, we will discuss it on the Conciliation Council, and tomorrow we will be making changes to be able to organize the electoral company in a civilized, transparent and democratic way. So, your honors, I'd like your attention. I'm putting it to a vote, please note, yesterday we discussed this, it's all clear. You don't have to divorce on. On the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, members of the local councils and village, village, city heads, on the turn of candidates in the electoral list, registration number 8259-1. If we turn it on. [[10:26:10]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Yes. Communists, Ukrainian Regions – 0, National Party – 14, Our Ukraine – 3, Block Timoshenko – 31, SPU – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, SDPU(O) – 19, National Block – 6, National Trust – 4, Reforms and Order – 13, Ukraine – 14, National Movement of Ukraine, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, non-fractional – 6. All of it. M we can't look at. He's not included in the agenda, he's not in the agenda, what we're going to talk about is unacceptable. Leonid Mikhailovich, we can't. All of it. What, what? Translating?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u24	That's how we see it, us. Ladies and gentlemen, the people who are near the Supreme Council of Ukraine are asking for a broadcast. Is there no objection? Out in the street. Then we include broadcasting to the street, please conduct yourself with discipline. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation relating to the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with WTO rules. This is registration number 8322. Puts to the vote the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. [[10:28:00]] For-179 Questions are not included in the agenda. The factions, please. Communist faction, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, National Party - 27, Our Ukraine - 37, Block Timoshenko - 32, SPU - 0, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, SDPU (o) - 0, National Block - 0, “Trust of the People” - 10, “Reforms and Orders” - 13, “One Ukraine” - 4, National Movement of Ukraine - 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 14, non-fractional - 6. What are some of the suggestions? Well, if there's no offer. How about a return to the consideration of inclusion in the agenda? Well, you should have been supportive, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have consulted in the Presidium and so that we are not accused of anything, I beg you, let's put another vote on the question of getting back into the agenda. Registration number 8322. Let the Supreme Council determine. Please be sure. [[10:29:55]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. It's out of the question. Communists, “Ukraine’s Regions” – Zeros, National Party – 35, “Ukraine” – 40, Block Timoshenko – 27, SPU – 0, Ukrainian People’s Party – 23, SDPU (o) – 0, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 14, “Reforms and Order” – 15, “One Ukraine” – 10, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 14, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this. in the section “Review with proposals by the President of Ukraine”. Announcing the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of technology transfer activities with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 01.10.2005. The rapporteur is Minister. First Deputy Minister of Economy Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Is it? None. Mikhail Kuzmich, please. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! The Committee considered the President's proposals on the law on State regulation of the transfer of technology." The committee agreed with the President's proposal to delete article 18, paragraph 2, of which prohibited imports into Ukraine of technologies that do not meet the requirements of state-owned technological development programmes. Indeed, the law does not specify the criteria by which such technologies can be identified, and this can lead to a noncompetitive environment. And that was also agreed with by the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which is that the Committee agrees with the President's observation. With regard to article 22 of the law on State-level technology stimulation, the committee disagreed with the president’s proposal. The president proposes to delete this article, referring to the state - level technology subsidy regime proposed in this article as a tax on certain transfer technologies that create discriminatory conditions for other subjects. This position, according to the President, is not in line with the provisions of article 8 of the WTO Subsidy Agreement. The President’s reference to the mentioned article of the Treaty could not be the basis for the deletion of article 22, for since the first of January 2000, article 8 of the WTO Agreement on Grants and Compensation Measures has ceased to apply. This is also highlighted in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The President's second point is that the Ukrainian Act amending Act 22 on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine and other legislative acts introduces a moratorium on the granting of new and expanding existing benefits. You can't agree with that either, because subsidies are not benefits. According to the Grants Agreement, subsidies are a financial contribution made by a government or any government authority in the form of direct cash revaluations or indirect means of non-payment of income. Subsidies have a clear focus. So comparing subsidies and benefits is not entirely correct. The committee made editorial changes to part five of article 22 and deleted the VAT on imports. This could have been considered a relief. So the committee proposes to adopt a law that takes partial account of the President's proposals, i.e. in a new edition. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine, after returning this law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with his remarks, has noted that the proposals made by the President of Ukraine during the consideration of the law at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be presented by the Minister of Economy. Unfortunately, there is no minister of the economy, not even the first deputy. This is another indication of how we yearn for understanding and cooperation. The proposal for a committee on the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State regulation of technology transfer activities is put to the vote in a new edition, taking partial account of the President's proposals. Registration number 4008, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:35:19]] For 272 The law is passed. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, has been announced for consideration. The president of Ukraine appointed the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, John Sakhany. Is there a minister? I think let's do it this way. Tell the government this will be the last time. Let the letter write to the Minister's office about the minister being on a mission. Please, Olena Vasilovna Hotch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! On the basis of his constitutional powers, the President of Ukraine returned the prescribed law to the Supreme Council with his proposals, leaving the following. The law provides for the granting of the right to grant scientific pensions only to persons with disabilities as a result of general illness and to persons with disabilities from childhood. In this case, disabled persons with disabilities and occupational diseases will not be entitled to such pensions and their pensions will be much lower. Part five of the law provides that the wages of a scientist are taken into account for the calculation of pensions, both in terms of employment and in terms of compatibility. This cannot be accepted, given that according to the Committee on Statistics, there has been a steady trend recently towards a reduction in the number of direct researchers and developers. Instead, the number of fellow scientists has increased. Notice, for example, that in 2004, the number of fellow scientists was 61 percent. This will have a negative impact on the state of scientific research and development according to the Ministry of Science. Part 13 provides that from March 1, each year, pensions are recalculated. This law does not propose a uniform approach, but a special approach to return to the general approach of pension recalculation proposes an increase in the implementation of the Act “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance”. Ladies and gentlemen, the law stipulated that it would take effect on January 1, 2006. Given the importance of this law, but based on the rules of the Budget Code, given that 580 million dollars will be required for the implementation of the law, the President proposes that it be fully implemented in accordance with the Budget Code as of 1 January 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's proposals have been considered at the meeting of the PSC and some of them have been proposed. Please return to the adoption of this law in a new edition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u27	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna. Constantine Mercuryovich Sitnik is invited to the presentation by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u28	Honorable colleagues, high-ranking voters, academics in Ukraine. The Committee on Science and Education considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine for a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. And he proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact this law, taking partial account of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Yes, of the president’s nine suggestions, the committee agreed with five. The committee disagrees with the President's proposal to remove a position from the law regarding the integration of work into the calculation of a worker's pension. Thus, article 23 of the Ukrainian law establishes that the salaries of scientific workers consist of office fees, bonuses, fees for scientific degrees, titles, apprenticeships for scientific, scientific and pedagogical work and other allowances: fees for remuneration, for scientific activities provided for in the legislation. [[salaries]] Work along the lines provided for in the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, and scientists pay insurance contributions from it. Therefore, the restrictions on scientific pensions are considered to be of no value by the Committee's main employment and are contrary to article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance”, where the calculation of pensions takes into account all types of earnings from which insurance contributions are paid. In addition, the Science and Science and Technology Act provides for restrictions on scientific pensions, which cannot be more than 90 per cent of the amount from which insurance contributions are paid – it is about 3,000 800 dollars. I will point out that according to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, the average amount of scientific pension as of January 1, 2005 is 845 dollars. And it's calculated by a general law that makes up 42 percent of the average size of a scientific pension. At the same time, work on compatibility is taken into account when calculating the size of scientific pensions. The committee cannot agree with the President's proposal to remove the situation, which reduces the period from which the average size of a scientific pension is calculated by 10 per cent of the duration of the scientific internship of a scientific worker. This period for scientists is now 10 years old and will increase by one year. I'll point out that's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u29	Let me finish the justification.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u30	who emphasize violations of their rights and propose that the issue be resolved at the legislative level. Indeed, for all pensioners who are assigned a pension under the Ukrainian Act “On a compulsory state pension insurance”, such a provision works, and the period from which pensions are calculated is reduced by 10 per cent of the duration of the general service. The Committee also believes that it should be left to the point that periods of work and other periods of scientific work for the purpose of the assignment of pensions are included in the legal order and conditions provided for in the previous legislation. The adoption of the law cannot aggravate the rights of citizens and lead to their being deprived of the right to receive the pension they received before the adoption of the new law. This is a constitutional position. For example, by law since 1998, a period of engineering at academic institutions has been included in the academic internship. Now this situation is not working. The committee agreed with the other proposals of the President. I would like to point out that the committee has also agreed with the President's proposal to enforce the law since 1 January 2007, so the adoption of this law will not affect the spending of Ukraine's State Budget for 2006. Please vote and support the committee's decision. Furthermore, I would like to add that it would be good if the Supreme Council had entrusted the Committee on Science and Education with considering the liquidation of the Higher Auditing Commission – the WAC – and to make appropriate changes to this Law on Science and Technology, which we are currently looking at. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please prepare for the vote. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities is submitted to the vote. In a new edition, taking partial account of President of Ukraine's proposals. Registration number 5152. Please vote. [[10:44:57]] For 342 The law is passed. Honorary colleagues are brought to the attention of the Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the regulation of production, circulation and taxation of ethyl alcohol, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. From 29.10.2005. Registration number 4191. That's right. Who will represent? Regrettary Vasil Vasilovich? Please, Deputy Minister of Finance. I would ask, Your Honourable Cabinet of Ministers, if you can't minister, somewhere he's on his way out to be a letter, as it used to be in those days, that the minister was on a mission. Can we say that or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The President of Ukraine has not signed the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of production, circulation and taxation of ethyl alcohol on such grounds. The first article of this law proposes the establishment of ethyl alcohol, which is used by institutions and health care institutions to provide medical diagnostics and to carry out laboratory tests, and manufacturers, business operators to produce medical devices, a zero - percent excise duty rate of one liter of 100 percent alcohol. The following should be noted in this regard. In its time, a two - pint - size debt rate for one liter of alcohol was used in Ukraine and led to a state where these canals were used for illicit alcohol production. In 2004, alcohol and ethyl and alcohol liquor were cut off in order to stop the shadowy circulation of alcohol. It was suggested that alcohol should be taxed for medical purposes and the production of medicines at a total rate of 17 pounds per liter of alcohol. These measures have led to the targeted use of alcohol for the production of drugs and the cessation of shadow circuits from production. Just mention the figure that the state lost more than 100 million dollars of excise duty in alcohol production. It should also be noted that the use of ethyl spices in the medical field in 2004, with the introduction of the excise duty rate, has resulted in a 47.2% reduction in alcohol consumption. At the same time, drug production did not decrease compared with previous periods. In 2005, the same downward trend continues. This suggests that the measures introduced have enabled alcohol to be stopped in the shadow sphere of alcohol production. As we proceed with this method, we can expect to lose no less excise congregation this year. A second part of this law is proposed to establish a new order for the implementation of ethyl alcohol for export through state-owned enterprises and to Ukrainian consumers through wholesale trade. Under the law in force, production is carried out directly by state enterprises. In this regard, the president did not support the bill. In view of the above, the Ministry of Finance is addressing you, honourable national deputies, to support the President's veto of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u33	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee who? Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. At its meeting on 15 November 2005, the Committee on Finance and Banking considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of October 6, 2004, “On amending certain legislative acts on the regulation of production, circulation and taxation of ethyl alcohol. As for the suggestions, the committee. The president, then the committee agreed with the main remarks. In particular, the committee agreed to take into account the First President's proposal for article 1 of section 1 of the law, which says that these changes can be used in an untargeted use of ethyl alcohol and, as a result, before the budget is lost. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concluded a number of comments on the President's proposals, which were, by the way, taken into account in the drafting proposed by the National Deputies to the Committee. And now, before your consideration, it's suggested that you consider the draft law in the committee's drafting, that is, the updated edition, and the committee is proposing to accept this particular text, which has been worked out by the committee members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee on adoption in a new edition with the approval of the President's proposals by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine. Registration number 4191. Please vote. [[10:51:16]] For 297 The law was passed in a new order.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u36	The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 96 of the Banking and Banking Act, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 13.10.2005, has been announced for consideration. Registration number 5759. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Emilianova Inna Ivanova Ivanovna. Another John, it's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u37	I'll fix it, just deputy, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u38	Yeah. Sergey Burjak will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Act “On Amendments to Article 96 of the Banking and Banking Act” adopted by the Supreme Council was not signed by the President of Ukraine in connection with its inadequacy with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thus, the law that came to the President’s signature suggested that the bank’s satisfaction with the bank’s claims should be changed in the event of its liquidation and the monetary requirements for the salary incurred upon the bank’s obligation to employees to break the liquidation procedure were placed in the sixth row. This is not in line with articles 21-22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which makes it impossible to narrow down existing rights and freedoms of citizens when amending existing laws. And the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work and the Labour Code sets out in article 97 that payments are made in the first order of payment related to the payment of wages. It also violates the requirements of article 21, part 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is established by this law, to satisfy the bank’s managers ’ demands to pay the wages incurred and the bank’s obligation to comply with the bank’s liquidation procedure. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine is invited to make a new revision of the requirements. The commitment to damage the lives and health of the citizens comes first in connection with the proposed turnaround. In the second order, these are the cash requirements for salary, in the third row these are the requirements of investors of natural persons in the part of the excess of the amount provided by the guarantee system, but not more than 50,000 dollars, in the fourth row these are the requirements of investors of natural persons who exceed the equivalent of 50,000 dollars, in the fifth place the requirements of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons, and in the latter are the requirements of natural persons whose payments or payments are blocked. I ask your support, the honourable national MPs who have made the President's proposals, especially since they have also been supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u40	Thank you, sit down, please. Sergei Vasilovich Burjak, committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I will briefly remind you of the history and essence of the bill. On September 22, this year, the Supreme Council adopted the bill as a whole. The bill proposed that further amendments be made to the legislative field in part of the queue for the satisfaction of liquidating creditors. These changes included the channelling of funds received as a result of the bank’s liquidation procedure, primarily to meet the demands of investors — natural persons. This was following the bankruptcy of the “Slovakia” Bank. I will not repeat the content of the President's proposals, but I will remind you that this is article 97 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and part three of article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, which was explained by the Ministry of Justice, and the importance of these amendments by the President. That is why the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole the adoption of Ukraine's prescribed bill, which is in line with the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u42	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. I would like to vote on the adoption as a whole, taking into account the President's proposals for amendments to article 96 of the Banking and Banking Act. Registration number 5759. Please vote. In a new edition of the President's proposal. [[10:56:17]] For 293 The law is passed. Thank you. The issue is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax on Taxation of Agricultural Enterprises, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 8203-1. He reports: Deputy Finance Minister Reguretic Vasil Vasilovich. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u43	Honourable National Deputies, the President of Ukraine has applied the veto to the signing of the Ukrainian Supreme Council on 18 October of this year of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Taxation of Agricultural Enterprises. First of all, I want to give you a brief comment on what today's current taxation regime is, and I want to focus on the losses that the state budget is for its application. Active legislation provides that producers of meat and milk products apply a zero value added tax rate, allowing them to recover from the State budget taxes paid for the acquisition of material resources. In addition, processed in its own capacity, this product is not included in the State budget but is included in the special accounts of the producers. In total, all of these actions lead to a lack of funds in the state budget, which is estimated to be more than four billion dollars this year. In this regard, the President drew the attention of the national deputies to a number of negative consequences that he felt needed to be addressed. The application of a zero rate for the sale of products in customs territory of Ukraine generally violates all principles of taxation of consumption in the internal territory. There is a direct laundering of the budget. the State budget, as the export of products results in tax deductions that are not included in the State budget and are not foreseen in the State budget. Farmers are limited in the right to export, directly export agricultural products, since the existing order does not allow subsidies to be received for the support provided in this project into the mechanism itself. The current order creates conditions for uncontrolled subsidies to farmers from the state budget. The current order reduces and inhibits investment in the agricultural sector in general. Farmers do not have direct access to the external market. Ladies and gentlemen, from an economic point of view, the existing order is a nonsensus of value added tax taxation, and the President points out that, with a view to arranging the payment of taxes by farmers, the Supreme Council passed a law that has a special article in the law that provides for the introduction of compensatory taxes. pay taxes to cover taxes paid by the farmer in the acquisition of material resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the President is asking you to support his decision not to continue the current regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u44	Thank you. Did you finish Vasil Vasil Vasilovich? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Vitaly Hometic from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking discussed the President's proposal at its meeting on 15 November. I want to remind you what this is about. Today, when selling the agricultural product, the tax paid to the company by the application of the special tax regime is wholly owned by the company and is not subject to budget payment. This rule is foreseen, provided for by the Act on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine. [[1877]] Since January 1, 2006, this tax regime has become invalid under the Law on Added Cost Tax, article 8 - 1. When the Law “On State Support for Agriculture” was adopted and we discussed the need for farmers to move to general tax rules, along with the proposal that the State Budget should be set at least 10 per cent of the State Budget for an agri-industrial complex in the State Budget for the following year. This year this rule was not applied, and we proposed that this law last year continue for one year. Now it's the same situation. The draft budget is already ready for second reading, but the financing of the agri-industrial complex remains insufficient. So 10 percent of the government budget -- that's not true. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and Banking, taking into account the importance of the draft law and the importance of supporting the agri-industrial complex, proposes to overcome the President's veto in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u46	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, we will be determined, be careful. I'm the first to make the President's proposal. The first is the President's proposal to reject the law amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:18]] For-49 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, you know that the following year was declared a year in the village. Let's help the President on this issue and beat the veto into a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. Please vote. In a year's time, the village will vote. [[11:03:53]] For 339 Veto overpowered. By factions, please: Communists 53, Ukrainian Regions 54, People's Party 45, Our Ukraine 6, Block Timoshenko 34, SPI 25, Ukrainian People's Party 24, SDPU (o)-18, People's Block Lithuania 19, People's Trust 16, Reforms and Orders 2, Ukraine 13, Ukraine's National Movement – 0, Industrial Party and Entrepreneurs – 14, Postfractional – 16. The question is: The Ukrainian Law on Chemical Power Sources with proposals by the President of Ukraine since October 5th this year. Reported Jemelyan’s deputy minister of justice, Inna Ivanovna. Prepare Mother Vitalia Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Supreme Council's Law “On Chemical Sources of Electricity” was not signed because its position is not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not comply with the Law “On the System of Taxation”. Yes, article 12 and paragraph 3 of the Final Provisions of this Law provide for the introduction of an environmental congregation for imports into Ukraine of dangerous chemical sources of alien origin, but this is implemented as a national congregation. This law provides that the arrangement for the payment and accounting of such an environmental congregation will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The establishment of the Cabinet of Ministers does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, articles 67 and 92, according to which everyone is obliged to pay taxes in order and in the extent established by law and according to the provisions of the Constitution solely by the laws of Ukraine establishing a system of taxation, taxes and congregations. For the same reasons, the adopted law of the Ukrainian Law “On the Tax System” does not correspond to the same, which provides that the tax system and the order of tax administration are established solely by the tax laws. In this context, it is proposed to supplement the Law on Chemical Power Sources with positions that will clearly determine the size and mechanism of the environmental congregation for importing dangerous chemical sources of alien origin into Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u48	Thank you, Inno Ivanovna. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Ivanovich Majko from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u49	Vitaly Majko, industrial faction, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine On September 8, 2005, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on Chemical Power Sources. On October 4, 2005, the president of Ukraine returned the prescribed law with proposals to him. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on November 1, 2005, reviewed the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Law on Chemical Sources of Electricity and, in agreement with it, drafted a new law that takes into account the comments made. The working group included executives, drafters, factory representatives, and associations of producers of chemical power sources. In general, the principal legal authority agreed with the newly drafted committee. There were two observations. The comments are taken into account. Please accept this law as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we thus have every reason to vote on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Chemical Power Sources in a new edition, taking into account all the President's proposals. Please vote. [[11:08:30.]] For 254 The law is passed. Two breaks, two, I'm sorry, the groups are the MPs and the faction are asking for a break. So, someone else has called. This is the parliamentary group “Trust of the People” and “Regions of Ukraine”. They will take advantage of the right to speak. Please, Anatoly Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u51	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, interfractional association “Deputy Blacks. ” Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Now, near the walls of the Supreme Council, participants are rallying to eliminate the consequences of the disaster, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Doctors, too. The many suffering participants in the elimination of the consequences of the technological Chernobyl disaster under the wall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have led to an unfair anti-constitutional decision by the Government of Ukraine, which in Ukraine's draft "On Ukraine's State Budget 2006" proposes to suspend a number of articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. In particular, article 20, 21, 22, 30, 36, 37, 39, 40, 41, 44, 48. The suspension of these articles violates the constitutional rights of the Chernobylites. And these are utilities and pay, extra vacations for 14 days, free medicine and dental care, medical care, higher education at the expense of the state, and so forth. We think that these people have earned such benefits, and that's why the laws give them them. These anti-constitutional actions are taking place despite the fact that the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 20 March 2002, has declared the suspension of the articles of the Act on Social Protection of Victims as a result of the Chernobyl AES disaster unconstitutional. Colleagues, requests, when considering the 2006 budget, do not vote in favour of suspending articles not only on the social protection of black people but also on other laws. It's going to be a legitimate genocide against the Chernobyls. Dear colleagues, the Chernobylites are the saviors of Ukraine and, perhaps, Europe and the world. And we should not allow anti-constitutional action before the 20th anniversary of the Chernobyl station crash. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Voluntary Movement is under review. Such rules of procedure are proposed. For the report, up to 3 minutes, answers to questions, up to 3 minutes, for a co-report, up to 3 minutes, answers to discussion and decision-making, it's written here for 5 minutes, let's say at least 15 minutes. No warning? The report invites Deputy Justice Minister Lydia Mikolayovna Gorbunova. Please. Prepare Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u53	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, a draft law on volunteerism is proposed to determine the organizational and legal principles of volunteering in Ukraine. The project is designed by the Ministry of Justice on the basis of the concept of a draft law developed by the Ministry of Family, Children, and Youth, and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This law will determine the status of a volunteer, a volunteer organization, their rights and responsibilities, the principles of volunteering, the principles of volunteering, and the law will also regulate the relationship between volunteers and the definition of public policy in the field of volunteering, which is very important. The absence of a special law on the regulation of volunteer activity inhibits the formation of a clear and consistent state policy on the development and support of volunteerism in Ukraine, raising the social significance of volunteers, removing obstacles to the use of volunteer work in state and non-state institutions. The bill under consideration meets the requirements of Ukrainian social services laws, social work with children and young people, which define the terms “voluntary movement”, “voluntary”, but does not address the issue of the interaction of volunteers. The activity is related to the proliferation of volunteerism in Ukraine, and the Ukrainian Youth Support Program Act 2004-2008 is also mentioned. In coordination with the volunteer movement, it is proposed that the central executive body be placed in the field of labour and social policy. The state registration of the All-Ukrainian Volunteer Organizations relies on the Ministry of Justice and local volunteer organizations rely on appropriate administrations of justice. The adoption of this law will determine the legal, organisational principles for the development of the volunteer movement in Ukraine and will provide a legal and regulatory framework for the development of volunteer movement. Its creation will have a significant social resonance in terms of supporting the state's volunteer movement and will stimulate its further development. The implementation of the law will encourage volunteers and organizations to use their services more actively, to carry out their duties as volunteers, and also to train and train volunteers. Please approve the draft law before you in the first reading. All the comments and suggestions made by the National Deputies on the Committees of the Supreme Council can be taken into account in the second reading. They are, indeed, very good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the deputy minister? Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u55	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. I will, and I must certainly, as any Ukrainian national MP only welcome the ongoing implementation on a systematic, purpose-oriented and socially beneficial basis, especially social work. I want to emphasize the systematic, systematic and consistent non-profit activity itself. Now under the walls of the Supreme Council of Medicine is also because here, in this sessional room, we have not allowed such a sequence and until now we have not passed the Law on State-wide Compulsory Social Health Insurance. So I have a question to ask you as a representative of the government: tell me, how, to what extent, in the bill, are the mandatory rules - the obligation of local governments to promote volunteerism?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u56	Thank you for your attention. This bill lists only the directions of state support for volunteer organizations, including local authorities. So this is going to be regional volunteering programs that will be approved by the local authorities themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u57	Alexander Bandurka, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u58	Alexander Bandurka, Volodymyr Litvina National Block. A respected reporter, one comment that may need to be made more clearly by volunteer organizations so that they do not get confused with charities, for many things fit together. And the second. Why were social services, the environment, and cultural heritage limited? Volunteers, on the other hand, can participate in the protection of human rights, in public order, in providing support not only for social, but for moral and psychological support. Maybe the second reading, if we accept it, would have to be expanded as we accept it, and that's in world standards, the law on volunteerism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. In fact, the main directions are defined by these directions that you have given. But the second article says that volunteering can also take place in the fields of education, culture, health, rights and freedoms. We did not write out the basics just to allow us to freely select all directions that should be directed both by local authorities and by volunteer organizations themselves. But really a sauna offer. We can continue these basic directions and add other significant directions to this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u60	Yuri Carmazin, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'd like to ask you two questions. The first question is whether an authority authorized to engage in volunteering, which is foreseen by article five, article six, will have any additional states, will develop, additional departments and so on, to be created in areas and places. And don't you suppose that the state would have to do and anticipate the possibility of providing material assistance to volunteers because they do community service and thus reduce the burden on the budget, and they're significantly reducing. Or just like that, let's limit ourselves to declarations, as is still the case in this government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u62	Thank you for your observation. Indeed, coordination of volunteering relies on the executive branch in the field of work and social policy. The bill does not determine whether additional structural units will be created for this activity. This will be decided by the body itself, the proposals will be taken into account by the body of work and social policy itself. Since it will be equipped with training and training, it will provide professional training for volunteers. That is, the very professional significance of this activity in order to confirm the professional ability to carry out this activity. Regarding State support. Indeed, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy also need additional funds to do this. This is provided for in the economic and financial basis of the draft law. And with regard to State support itself, this should be determined by individual government programs. And, of course, if national deputies support such state programs, they will be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. Time is up, please sit down. The report invites a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Youth Policy, Physical Culture and Sports, Sport, and Tourism, Eugene Vasilovich Filindash. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u64	Dear Chief, colleagues! Radio listeners! At its meeting on October 19, this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Law on Volunteering, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 7550. The drafters concluded that the volunteer movement, a relatively new social phenomenon that unites more and more citizens, needed a clear legislative settlement. It is important to regulate the status of a volunteer, his rights and duties, and the scope of his activities. The purpose of the bill is to define organizational legal principles for volunteering and on. from the process of volunteering in Ukraine. The bill defines the status of a volunteer, the status of a volunteer organization, their rights and obligations, the principle of volunteering, and the direction of a source of funding. At the committee meeting, the deputies supported the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. The main export management believes that the results of the first reading of the draft law can be taken into account by taking into account the comments made and the proposals made. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons also adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. Taking into account the above-mentioned Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the bill in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u65	Yes, thank you, too. Have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. Please show me the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction, prepare Melnichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Law on the Volunteer Movement, which is now being proposed by the government, must be completely adopted and adopted long ago. Until now, we have been guided only by the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the approval of the position of volunteering in the field of social obedience since 2003 No. 1895. At the same time, I would like the state to translate part of the function into volunteers, namely, translating socially beneficial non-profit activities that are carried out by doing those jobs that rely on social services, by doing social services, by helping the sick, by helping the elderly, by people who are in difficult social circumstances, by living conditions, and who need foreign assistance, the State does not, at all, foresee the possibility of helping these organizations. For what, then, will we create in accordance with article 5, in accordance with article 6, organs: and the central authority of executive power in the field of work and social policy, which is the key; and in the field of volunteering. I mean, I would like to settle the question that, in the case of recognition by this body, the central executive body in the field of work and social policy, the social significance of this work done by volunteers, so that it can be asked about state funding, I emphasize, because it's given to hospitals and other social institutions that we pay to society, we say it's necessary, we don't pay anything. Next. There's nothing to say about that. What's going to happen is that volunteer organizations are carrying some equipment for their activities, some equipment. Or it should be completely bet: by myth, by all taxes, and so on. People want to do good, to support the sick, to do other activities, such as protecting the environment. How can you help them? How will the State help? This responsibility of the state made me want the government to secure itself, and I would like the government to provide for this funding. So as a result, there's a lot of comments about the technical legal plan, but it's a little bit of a joke. I would like to support the bill in the first reading and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u67	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u68	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill that we are discussing today will be supported by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The project proposes that the territorial authorities, the specialized central authority of the executive branch in the field of volunteering, be empowered to test the knowledge and skills of volunteers. We certainly should, when adopting this bill, think about what might be volunteering, which is sometimes what happens to people under the influence that they want some kind of social assistance or something, and there are many examples when at least they get into a bad situation, especially the elderly. And so the state's control over this issue must be very strict. As a matter of fact, the bill was filed on time. No doubt about it. Today, dozens of examples show how Ukrainian citizens today need social protection. Recently, I visited the village of Karabchev in the Visniki district, Petrasovka in Hertzievsky, Bernovo in the Khelmenecki region. Many people turn to social issues. Trouble, and just one word you won't tell me about it. So if the law is passed, it is certain that the authority on the ground, the executive authority, the representative authorities will do everything they can to make them function and still at such a difficult time for our nation, for our people, because at least we cannot say today for the great growth of the economy or the good life of our people in Ukraine. Well, where you're not going is the same question: "Please tell me, Mr. MP, when are we finally going to live properly; when will all the promises you make from the rostrum or when you meet with the electorate be fulfilled?" Because life is not getting better, it's getting worse. And that's how it is. And perhaps the adoption of this bill will allow us to involve those forces that are not working fully today, so that we can talk about giving services to our citizens. And I'd like to draw your attention, my dear colleagues, to the fact that today, under the walls of Parliament, medical workers. That draft budget for the second reading that is ready to be submitted is certainly not supported in this room. Not just in medicine, in education, in agrarians. And that's reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u69	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u70	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, Volodymyr Litwina People's Block. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media. First of all, I would like to say that the very name of the proposed bill is somewhat strange, because there is no word for “voluntary” in Ukrainian. In the translation “Volunteer, ” it is a volunteer. I certainly do not offer the third moment of purism to do the cleansing of the tongue. But why can't this be called a bill in Ukrainian? Volunteering would be perfectly normal. This is the first position. The second position is that the very fact of volunteering or volunteering is a fact that exists without the bill. Because there have always been people who have suffered heartaches, pains, sorrows, and the inadequacy of their fellow citizens, their fellow countrymen. And so the question has to be whether or not there is a law that regulates, coordinates the activities of these real volunteers, these real movers, and who would help them. And in order to help, it is better to write down legal standards. That's what we're talking about. From me, for example, I suggest. While, in principle, I think that in the first reading, and the faction of the People's Party thinks that the first reading can and should obviously be the subject of a bill. But the bill should clearly define "ah", the main orientations of volunteering. My colleague, Alexander Bandurka, said that there were only three aspects. And the volunteer movement is much broader. “B”, the document needs to be clearly defined, which confirms the state registration of a volunteer organisation, a government authority that approves its form. “B” should be clearly stated, during which the decision to refuse its state registration of a volunteer organisation may be challenged. “H”, the main tasks and legal status of branches, branches, volunteer organizations that are allowed by the bill to form. This is part of the first article of the 13 project, by the way. Article 22 of the project deals with the development of public and regional measures to promote volunteerism. Dear friends, we all know what propaganda is and we know when there are calls to do it at a national level, it ends with nothing. The project, if this is a serious project, should identify public authorities who will be directly responsible for the implementation of this rule. And in the end, I want to say that volunteering or volunteering is a movement that is carried out consistently and systematically. Obviously, the kilograms of Greek, the respectable voters that will give you before the elections, this is not a movement, and this is not a volunteer movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u71	Yuri Solomatin, please, your word. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, let's make some important points. Is Ukraine a bourgeois State? Yes. Are we building a civil society, that is, a bourgeois society that is not the backbone of government organizations that are fed, not at the expense of the state, but by mercenaires, sponsors, foundations, etc.? Yes. That is exactly what it is. Why create a volunteer movement in government structures? And that's the question. If we have a volunteer movement at Minsocracy, let's make a volunteer movement at Minsimimolod, then at MNS Ukraine, then at the Minn Nature, the green volunteer movement will come together, then around the Ministry of the Interior, the wives as volunteers, they'll refer to this category, and so on. So this bill does not conceptually take into account all the multicolored volunteer movement that exists in society and in the state. And that's why I think he needs conceptual refinement. And by the way, by the name. I agree that the very name “voluntary” is not ours, and I would suggest another name — the Timurian movement. And especially for Minsocrazzi, Minsimi, young people. The Tempurians, the pioneers -- they used to do such a good, useful thing. And even without the intervention of the state. So let's also think about this problem -- call it the Tempurian Movement Act in Ukraine. And two specific examples. I was approached by the president. The Oasis Foundation of Odessa, Mr. Slevinski. And he begs for help in the part that touches on creating opportunities for the normal operation of this fund, first of all creating conditions for building suitable buildings that are destroyed and need to be rebuilt. But these facilities are located in the territory of the Fund of Writers of Ukraine. All contacts with the Odessa District Council with the writers of Ukraine did not lead to anything, and this fund is dependent on these states. Another example. Today, the newspaper Voice of Ukraine has such a wonderful report “Volunteers — On the Street”. Odessa is mentioned again. Alexander Ahmtova, a beneficial organization, is begging for help because it is being evicted from the room in which it is located. Let's not create laws for the Ministry, but for the charity, the rich patronages that the president was talking about to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u73	Vitaly Shibko. Microphone, please. Oh, are you filming? Then Vladimir Cherniak. You're filming. Eugene Gorenik. Well, it's time. I can't. Also, Greenick was written earlier. Now, after Eugene the Gunner. Well, there's a man out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u74	Chevalier MPs! Dear voters! Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists In general, the government’s initiative is commendable. And we don't have to worry about the purity of the Ukrainian language. It's a popular name, "voluntary," and these volunteers in civilized countries play a very important role. In any case, the big stocks, the Olympics, are being held in many ways thanks to the volunteers ’ efforts. And helping the elderly and individual actions in educational, cultural, and other activities. That's why initiating such a bill is a very good signal. But given the experience of certain funds in Ukraine, and not only in Ukraine, there are fears that some of the provisions of this bill may be tax holes. So by giving volunteer organizations the right to be a legal person, on the one hand, really bureaucratic procedures, as my colleagues have said, need to be reduced, but on the other hand, to compare volunteer organizations to different funds and to give them appropriate benefits, this can compromise the volunteer movement. That is why financial activity needs to be written out more clearly than merely giving the right to give a variety of donations without determining the nature of control over their allocation and movement. Well, and more than anything else, you have to say, even under the walls of the Supreme Council today, that a lot of the categories of our society in Ukraine are actually working on volunteer principles. These are the same people who care for the elderly, and the same ones who have been doing their jobs for years without pay. Therefore, when considering the 2006 Ukrainian budget bill on second reading, these requirements, which are presented by the medical community and the tariff network, and the provision of medicines and others, of course, should be taken into account. As for the bill itself, surely the first reading should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u75	Leonid Chernewicki, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u76	The deep-respected Vladimir Mihajlovich and Adam Ivanovich, and the people's deputies, and everyone who listens to us. Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. What I would like to say is that, for the first time in Ukraine, this noble law has been passed and voted on. I want to tell you that eight and a half years I've been in constant contact with people who are in the most difficult situations -- with a million diseases, nobody needs them. But I hope that they will be heard in the new Parliament because they are Ukrainians, and unfortunately they are becoming more and more. But the main task of my speech is to bow low on behalf of everyone who supports me, to those kievlans and other people who wear their clothes, their things, their food, their books, and that's basically what I want to inform you, I've been doing this for eight and a half years, poor people. They have a conscience, they have pride in Ukraine, they're good people at all. Those who help any charity organization, I want to thank you, because most of the time, I say again, these are simple people who have lived life. They know what it's like to live without a piece of bread, without a good word, without attention, without the many things a man needs. And those who are not yet involved in this movement, I believe the law will help them to participate. And I want to turn to them: no one is insured to be in difficult conditions of life, because I have met among people who had neither bread nor clothing nor hope for the future, yes, and their former leaders, and the secretaries of the party's talks at Soviet time, that everyone who listens to my speech, and other noble MPs who support the volunteer movement, that no one is insured from it. And I'm asking you to pay attention to who's talking to you about what's going on. And all of this will be taken into account for you. Because with no one, there is no one who is immune to such problems. Finally, I ask everyone who listens to the broadcast to call their elderly parents. It became a slogan for me. And I was told by the left-hand factions who don't have phones, write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Discussion of the draft Law on the Volunteer Movement has been completed. A proposal for a committee to adopt a bill on volunteer movement is put to the vote. Registration number 7550. Please vote. [[11:43:04]] For 295 Decision taken. A draft Social Work Act is being announced for consideration. Such rules of procedure are proposed. Reporter, up to three minutes, answers to questions, up to three minutes, report, three minutes. Discussing and making a decision is 10 minutes. Please 12 – more specifically, Valery Suškević, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Suškević, Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I have a request from John Ivanovich, who just got sick and is in the hospital, to say a few words about this bill. The bill aims to identify and address certain issues of social protection, such as the identification of principles, directions and means of social work. The bill is quite complex. He took on social work as his primary concept, identifying both objects and subjects of social work. It defines everything that touches the work and control of government standards. Social security. preparing appropriate workers and everything that touches the very concept of social work. Our committee generally supported the initiative associated with this social law. But I want to make it objectively clear that both the government and the Ministry of Profiles have stressed the need to use more explicit and non-mbiguous definitions in the bill, and the bill defines many specific definitions. What is involved in social work? There is some overlap between some provisions of the bill and the Social Services Act. A number of comments were made accordingly by the Chief Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for example, attention is drawn to a certain discrepancy between those norms that are proposed with the existing provisions of existing legislation. This is precisely a problem because we often do not look at what is already defined in the law and do not compare with what is now being written in the new law. All of these problems were the subject of discussion on our committee, where both the author and public organizations, and pensioners, veterans, invalids, representatives, in fact, of the subject of social work for which this law was defined as a new direction in our legislation. Our committee concluded that in spite of some shortcomings, the bill has an appropriate value and deserves to be taken as a basis for support in the first reading. Then work on it properly. I urge you to support this bill on behalf of our committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u79	Yes. Questions, dear colleagues, please sign in for a moment. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Please put it on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u80	Valeriy Mihajlovich, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozhye. I have a question for you as a professional, to a person who is professionally involved in improving the widest possible aspect of social work. First remark. Our faction will support this bill because it will, we think, contribute to creating conditions for the development of the social sphere, which is what gives us the basis for legally establishing the impossibility of violating, allowing for social work violations. This is certainly vital. But please, if you think it'll give us a chance to adopt this law, we'll have hope of going back to that practice of social work. When she looked like a social policy, when she was collectively linked and interacted as in the time of the government of Yanukovic. Are we going to be able to bury forever the evil practice that now takes place under the government of Timoshenko, and now Yehanurova, when social work becomes chaotic patching holes. That is, it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u81	Thank you for asking, Mr. Jaroslav. I want to say that the social work defined by this law is defined by the principles and directions of social work, such as, let's say, in a definition that represents this direction of social realization of our national institutions. But what I want to say is that direct social work depends on what is involved in the financing. And I want to say that in the last year, it is precisely the government of Tymoshenko that has been channeling social funds, as they say today, sometimes they say, to eat, that it is precisely new incentives and new directions and new opportunities that have emerged from the arrival of the government of Yulia Timoshenko, which has provided funding for socially meaningful activities of the government. I believe that if the appropriate level of funding is maintained, the implementation of this law will take place in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u82	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u83	Vasily Nadrag, People's Block of Lithuania. Valeri Mihajlovich, as a specialist, please tell me, is this your opinion: licensing such activities will not be a site of abuse, like any licensing, to the great regret of that country? One thing I can say, however, is that the members of the People's Block of Lithuania will support this bill in their first reading. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u84	A very good question, and I thank you for that question. You know, there's a mass of underwater stones here, and I agree with you. Today, we can practically put these stones in place and not allow for the real realization of social work, including for non-state institutions, which are now doing quite a lot of work, in which the state has not yet managed to implement it to some extent. So the issue of licensing requires very careful processing, and the number of clarifications in the legislative definition. And I agree with you that in the second reading, it is absolutely necessary to work out properly, and then work as a mechanism for the practical implementation of this license. Otherwise, we can do worse than we did today, because today there are quite a lot of directions and states, and not states that are being implemented in terms of pensioners, veterans and disabled people who need this social work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u85	Thank you, too. Time's up. Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Oleg Belarus, faction of Block Tymoshenko. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u86	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio audiences and TV viewers! This is about the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which recently celebrated 14 years after its founding. And in our questions, there is always a question of social protection for the people of Ukraine. Therefore, the bill that is being discussed in Parliament today will necessarily be supported by the faction of the Socialist Party. There is no question that this bill should still answer one question: will social issues be addressed by professionals who will have appropriate education, or will it be just random people who may have functions that are not delegated to the State today? Of course, we're in charge of licensing. We're about to open schools where we can prepare these people. And that's how it is. Because when we meet with voters, we are once again convinced that there are no professionals who today would be qualified to do the work that the State is delegating to them. How can you qualify for the work of social workers, which is supposed to be a region such as Putilski, Sokiryanski, Starożinetski? How can we talk about social protection when today there are employees of medical establishments in the region of Chernobyl, Starożinetski, Kitzmanski, Kielmenecki, Novoseleckik? What can be said if they are essentially offended by the state today, when they do not have adequate social support, they do not have the appropriate salary. And the state delegated to them the functions of protecting the health of the nation, the health of the people of Ukraine. And can we be sure that those people who are under the walls of Parliament today, the Chernobyls, will be representatives of local self-government tomorrow, that they come simply to come here under the walls of Parliament? No, it's not. They're coming, dear colleagues, to protect us. And I repeat once again the principle of the position of socialists that we will then support the budget submitted to Parliament if there is support for education, health workers, agrarians, if there is a return on savings and, of course, funding for the Children of War Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u87	Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky has a word. Maria Marcus will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u88	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Because I'm not a party of power, so I'm not going to rally and use this rostrum for propaganda and agitation, and because we're talking about a specific law right now, and obviously we have to make it better, we're going to speak professionally, without agitation and propaganda based on those everywhere. So it's a social work bill. Is he active or not? Of course, it is. I'm going to try and literally say why and offer specific things to improve it. First of all, as the very kind of social work in Ukraine is being established and, this Mrs. Hotch knows very well, in Ukraine, somewhere in the mid-1990s. It is now in the process of building up like the entire social services system. And so far, we can say that there are thousands of state services in Ukraine and, I would stress, non-state social and social services. They are trained in nearly 30 educational institutions in Ukraine. Is this law relevant to us? Of course, it is relevant. On the other hand, similar legislation on social work is applicable in virtually all countries where social work has already taken place as a profession. I'm highlighting it as a profession. Currently, only social services and work with individual types of clients are regulated in Ukraine. While other aspects of social work are outside the regulatory framework. The various functions scattered between the departments are poorly aligned. And so I would also like to propose to the authors, the subjects of the legislative initiative, and to those in the government bed today, some things I think are quite specific. First of all. First offer. According to the faction of the People’s Party, a separate bill requires the organization of social work, such as the order of their performance, the rights and obligations of customers, although this term is unsuccessful. I mean, people who need social and social workers. Social finance, etc. The other one. It's worth taking into account that we need to refine the issue of attestation and accreditation so that there's no misunderstanding, that there's no chaos, because we have thousands of, in fact, institutions that do social work. Third. It seems to me that the bill has remained unregulated in social services and their status. [[And that's how it is.]] There is a need to give due attention to the direction of social worker activity, to the particular aspects of social work with different categories of people who need qualified foreign assistance, and so forth. Dear colleagues, I think you can agree to take this bill as a basis, but my proposals need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u89	Yes, Maria Marcus. The Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u90	Maria Marcus. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to strengthen social work and to strengthen the social protection of the population of our country. It is very relevant today, since the situation of the majority of the population today needs really social protection. The state cannot create the right conditions for the vitality of its citizens. And as a result, we have a nation's extinction. We have a violation of the rights of young people. We have a violation. Constitutional rights of citizens, pleasure. and dissatisfaction with cultural and spiritual priorities. I believe that honourable colleagues that the draft law should be adopted in the first reading of the following reasons. It defines the concept of social work. In addition, the bill defines social workers, and it extends them in comparison with the laws that exist. In addition, the practice of social work is subject to licensing, the order and conditions of which must be developed and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And services that do social work have to be tested. Such certification should also be carried out by social workers. In addition, the bill is positive that its adoption will help create conditions for the development of the social sphere and civil society, which is part of modern social work. The bill’s comments are such that the draft bill regulates a number of issues that are already covered by the current laws on social services and on social work with children and young people. And that's why we need to reconcile this bill with these bills. I believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading and supported. In addition, the rest of the time I have left, I ask that you give the National Deputy of Ukraine to Chernevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u91	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u92	I am very grateful to the Communists for giving me the opportunity to say two words on this issue. I have travelled around the world, and I will tell you that there is no country in Europe other than Ukraine that has not provided assistance. did not pay attention to pensioners and people who deserve all respect from the State. What is the problem? Not even in the pensions established by the State today. And I believe that the left parties should do so and are doing well in Parliament to protect the rights of pensioners. But retirement isn't everything. Many retirees cannot leave their apartments and buy the most basic items, the simplest thing they need to maintain their livelihood. I believe that this bill must pass; social workers must visit every pensioner, every disabled person, any person who deserves the attention of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u93	Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Yes, dear colleagues, we will now make a decision, then we will decide on a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! To her God, I look forward to the moment when we can rely on conclusions and committees and other professional institutions and not take the floor. But forced by the brothers over and over again, because the proposed bill bears absolutely declarative articles, norms, principles, nobody will ever again analyze that the Ministry of Finance's response to this bill states that it does not support it, and precisely because this bill duplicates the social work law that we passed two years ago, the Social Services Act, which only became effective on January 1, 2004. And again and again, I'm telling you, people, why write from one to the other and write things like that, and nobody says what it says. You define the first in the article: a customer is a natural person who cannot cope with his problems on his own, get out of difficult living conditions, meet his needs and abilities, and therefore needs help from social services and employees. [[Term]] That's good, huh? That's what we've been through. A veteran who is being assisted today in the law is called a “client”. And we say, on the first reading, let us accept! Open your eyes, how can you do that? The right thing to do is to send a science-experimental office for re-reading. That's the conclusion of the science department. I've already told you about Minfin. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy says that it needs substantial work. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, we've heard one thing here, and it turns out that's a completely different opinion on the committee. It turns out that the Committee's letter of 3 February 2005 stated that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour is proposing a draft Social Work Act to be submitted for re-reading. Ladies and gentlemen! So why aren't we here from the rostrum hearing the correct reports on the substance of the bill under consideration? Why can't we see that the word “client” really doesn't work? But it doesn't make sense that it's a fully declarant law, absolutely, that it doesn't give anything. In this regard, we have adopted fine laws that provide for all of this simply to place a bird that is another law that has been passed. I will not vote in favour of this law. This law carries nothing new in itself except what is already in the laws that I have spoken of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Please, Eugene the Guide to Motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u96	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of the Ukrainian Nationalists. I'm thinking to myself, my dear fellows, and if we don't vote on this law, the bill as a law, well, what will stop life, and this job will not be done at all, social? We were given a draft of Ukraine’s Social Code today. I specifically compared it. In principle, almost everything in this bill is in the Social Code. There is a proposal not to break our legislation, but to follow the path of its codification. So the proposal to reject this bill and to invite the authors to join the drafters of the Social Code of Ukraine, to make it useful that this bill is in place and not to engage in such fragmentation of our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u97	Government position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we greatly appreciate the MP's initiative to improve social work in Ukraine. But given the substantial comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office, the national MPs who expressed themselves on this issue, we are ready, the government is ready to help the author of the bill to finalize it and to submit it to the re-examination of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u99	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote. You are asked to consider the committee's proposal to adopt the draft Social Work Act, registration number 6210. Please vote. Here comes the vote, your honors. [[12:06:15]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Who is it to go back to the draft law on social work? Dear colleagues, please calm down. Please vote. [[12:06:41]] For 243 We're back to the debate. Who's in favour of adopting a draft social work law, registration number 6210, please vote. [[12:07:05]] For-286 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 37 minutes, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u100	Invite the national deputies to the session room. We'll continue our work. Honorary colleagues, two factions: “Ukraine” and the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, demanded a 30-minute recess for consultations. [[united]] To speak from two factions with information about the issue discussed will be Tamara Proscuratova.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u101	Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear National MPs, the need to take a break has led once again to 57 articles of the Ukrainian Education Act. A year ago, the Supreme Council passed a law initiated by the MPs of the faction of the SDPU(o) on the restructuring of the debt of payments to teachers and educators, provided for in article 57 of the Education Act. But only after the parliamentary requests to the Cabinet of Ministers, the governors finally, thank God, moved the matter away. And my teacher colleagues started getting money for 1997 -- it's internship, it's health, it's premium. But dozens of letters indicate that the issue has not yet been resolved in some areas. So I would like to contact you, distinguished educators, please write a letter to my address or to the other factions of the faction where this issue is not resolved. We're going to sound these areas, the names of the managers, and we're going to do everything we can to make sure that the teachers get the money. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is outraged by the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has suspended the payment of municipal services to teachers, doctors, cultural workers in rural areas. [[united]] And today, doctors have in vain demanded that these problems be resolved by taking care of the Supreme Council. And we demand that these payments be renewed, because this was the only incentive that the teacher was going to work in the countryside. A year ago there was a bill, initiated by the deputies of our faction, on the restructuring of the debt of payments, which provides for the introduction of the rule of article 57 of the Education Act, on the basis of which the average salaries of the scientific and pedagogical staff of the higher education institutions of the third, fourth levels of accreditation should be at the level of the double wages of industrial workers and the first and second, the average wages of industrial workers. The Committee on Education and Science supported him in the spring. And so I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to find out which of the employees of the Apparatus prevents the inclusion of these bills, 7506, 6488, in the agenda. The faction of SDPU(o) turns to the executive branch of power to help increase the social protection of a teacher, a doctor, in order to have a healthy educated generation. And by doing so, we will help the President live up to his promises. I thank the faction “The One Ukraine” for agreeing to this break.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. One thing I would like to say is that it is possible for us to interfere with the machine, since it is only on the Conciliation Board that we decide what the schedule of meetings should be. I'll ask the secretariat to check and provide the relevant information. Dear colleagues, we are discussing the matter on a rereading of the first reading. This is a bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Code on the Responsibility for Trafficking in Persons, the Involvement and Occupation of Prostitution and Subtitling. So do we need to discuss these bills again? I would like very briefly to have the drafters remind themselves of their basic positions. Then we'll make a decision. Then I think we have an opportunity to make an effective decision. We must accept it. I would like to emphasize that in particular. Maria Andriyevna, please, then, regarding your bill, Vladimir Stretovich, I will ask about you and Inna Ivanovna regarding the government. I think it's better here. Who, who? Alexander Markovich? Please. I just looked at it here. Very short. We discussed these bills. Now the MPs can refresh in memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u103	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Three bills have been proposed on the same issue, with few differences. They're adding to each other, they're clarifying each other. Both the experts and the deputies and, in general, the Committee on Law Enforcement Services prefer the bill passed by Bandurka, Markus, Carmazin and other deputies. He goes under 4179D and is offered when accepted in the first reading and further processing to take into account the proposals made by the MPs, our colleagues Buiko, Stratovic and what is from the Cabinet of Ministers. We will adopt a balanced, well-founded bill. I won't stop at the details. We discussed it quite thoroughly in the first reading. I'd like all the factions, all the deputies, to support Bill 4179, taking into account our colleagues' future proposals for two other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u104	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please. Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u105	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable colleagues, MPs, taking into account the extreme danger and transnational nature of crime from trafficking in human beings, the draft law introduced by me and Deputy Buiko is of great importance to the protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, as well as to enhance the authority of Ukraine as a rule of law at the international level. The significant difference between a given project and a similar project is the following. First, the project is based on the work of the working group, which includes representatives of the Attorney-General's Office and the District Attorney's Office, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights, the State Department of Immigration and the registration of natural persons. Second, the project received a positive assessment of the UN and OSCE representatives. Third, according to the content of the presentation, standards are built on a clear definition of crime. Considered are vital signs such as the usefulness of the purpose, or coercion, or deception, of the victims, which guarantees effective evidence in a criminal case. Other projects are designed to describe crime exclusively on the objective side, namely: transportation, relocation, which will complicate the qualifications of such activities and lead to violations of the rights of Ukrainian citizens, millions of whom are forced to work illegally abroad. Fourth and most special, projects to implement the relevant standard of protocol for the prevention and cessation of trafficking in human beings, especially women and children. And punishment for it, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4, 2004, taking into account the characteristics of our national legislation and the practical experience of specialized bodies. And the last. The main difference in the proposed project is its most consistent approach to the doctrine of criminal law, namely, a clear definition of the composition of crime, with a focus on the intent and purpose of criminal action, rather than on describing its objective side: concealment, cross-border, and so on, that it is more specific to European countries where there are no tools and loose elements of crime in general parts of criminal codes. Excessive detail of the objective side in our system will result in limitations in possibilities, in responsibilities if the action is not directly described in the norm. And the last. Dear friends, we have tabled this bill at the request of members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to make it easier for these authorities to counter trafficking in human beings. Please support my bill with Deputy Buiko number 4179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u106	Thank you, too. Emilian’s Inna Ivanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would also like to focus on the difference between this bill and its specificities in the presentation of the draft introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's also designed by a working group, which is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Justice, which are representatives of the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service. The main idea of the project. It's, as we can see, the establishment of responsibility for any action with regard to human beings as goods. If you draw attention to alternative projects that are presented, including those presented by the committee, I would like to say what is done in the protocol. This means an additional protocol to the UN Convention, which foresees exactly what each country must do in order to establish criminal responsibility for trafficking in human beings. And in particular, it defines what needs to be understood by human exploitation. Thus, this protocol highlights the fact that human trafficking should have a mandatory mark — the purpose of human exploitation. Either use for prostitution, or other forms of sexual exploitation, or forced labor, or slavery. Absence. In the project presented in the Cabinet of Ministers, this is defined, unlike the project proposed for your consideration by the Committee. In particular, I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that setting a goal such as exporting a person for his or her. or recruiting, hiding, transporting a person outside of Ukraine, could lead to the fact that we will also be holding tourist companies responsible for trafficking in human beings. Well, if we define our project, we're just a few signs. We used crime to recognize the sale, sale, or exploitation of human beings. The activities leading up to this are recruitment, transportation, transfer, or concealment. A mandatory sign is also the receipt or acquisition of a person for the purpose of its exploitation. And I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the project presented by Kabmin in the footnote gives a clear definition of what needs to be understood by exploitation. And what we're predicting is the use of the position of service, the actions that we're doing about the child and the person who was dependent on the criminal, especially the use of the position of service. I will. The signs are also repetition, a group of people, and especially crimes that have led to the death of a person or other serious consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to support the draft law submitted for your consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. It has now been correctly pointed out by Alexander Markovich that they are complementing each other, these projects, and, in principle, they are all aimed at the same goal, which is to bring in line with the UN convention against transnational and organized crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u108	Thank you. Maria Andriyovna Marcus, deputy chairman of the committee Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u109	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Law Enforcement Committee has considered all the proposed three bills, and they are all intended to bring the criminal code of Ukraine into line with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Crime and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4, 2004. According to the committee, the most comprehensive, complex and rational aim of legislative technology was achieved in the bill of registration number 4179-d. The amendments proposed by the bill aimed at broadening the provisions of article eight, bringing articles 146, 149 and 303 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine into line with the United Nations Parliamentary Convention against Transnational Crime of 2000 and the Protocol on the Prevention and Cessation of Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children, and punishing it and supplementing article 141. Ukraine’s Criminal Code is in line with the documents mentioned. In addition, the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection and Project Coordinator in Ukraine, together with the Project Coordinator of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and with the participation of leading Ukrainian scientists in the field and law enforcement officials, on 15 November this year, a round table was held to deal with the problems of law enforcement in the fight against trafficking in human beings in Ukraine and to bring national criminal law into line with the norms of international legal acts to which our State has joined. As a result of the work of the above-mentioned round table, a unanimous decision was taken to ensure a more rational passage of the bills mentioned in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to recommend one of the bills adopted on the basis and to take the appropriate positions of alternative bills into account when further working on the second reading format. In addition, the Committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review all the above-mentioned bills in the first reading and to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal and Procedural Codes on the Responsibility for Trafficking in Persons, the Involvement in Prostitution and the Substantiation of Registration Number 4179-Thank you. Submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u110	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall, we need to make a very important decision not to refer to the second rereading. George Buiko, by the time everyone comes in, a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u111	George Buiko, Communist faction. Regarding three projects, I would like to emphasise that the second project, which follows our authorship, 4179, has been tested in all regions of Ukraine. It is most adapted with our national legislation and international standards of the Palermo Conference and its protocols. So I would like to pay attention and vote in favour of 4179.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please, Karmazin. As we prepare for the vote. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u113	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! It is clear that after the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the Protocol to Prevent and Stop Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women, Children and Punishment for February 4, 2004, we have to make some changes to the Criminal Code, which applies to Article 149 “Trafficking in Human Beings”. I would like to draw your attention to the need to accept this. But I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that something has not been reported to us today that is behind the changes to article 303, which in its original form is called: “Prostitution or coercion or involvement in prostitution.” Now it is suggested that the responsibility be placed solely for engaging, for engaging in prostitution. That is, systematic prostitution, that is, sexual service for the purpose of earning income, will no longer be criminalized. So society is already encouraging this action.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u114	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues! The first vote is for adoption on the basis of draft Law, registration number 4179. Authors: Ukrainian national deputies Bandurk, Markusz, Alexeyev, and others 4179-D. Based on the base. Please vote. [[12:53:19]] For 211 Put to the vote for adoption on the basis of draft law, registration number 4179, authors of national deputies Strtovic, Bujko, Markusz. Regarding amendments to the Criminal Code. Please vote. [[12:53:54]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. Communists – 55, “Regions” – 8, National Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 19, Block Timoshenko – 4, SPI – 23, Ukrainian People's Party – 24, SDPU(O) – 0, National Block – 19, “Reforms and Order” – 13, “One Ukraine” – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 7, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 17. So, dear colleagues, we have adopted Bill 4179 as the basis. I ask the Committee to deal with the proposals contained in other projects without delay in accordance with the Rules. A ranger for this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the preparation regime for second reading requires formalized amendments from each MP. So I would ask you not to delay sending your proposals to the committee without delay, including the authors of other bills, so that at the next plenary session we can vote on the final text of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u116	Yeah, well, I don't think the government will object to that decision, will it? Yes. Let's move on to the section by a simplified procedure. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the establishment of housing and utility tariffs]] Registration numbers are 7473, 7473-1. First Deputy Minister of Economics Sergey Andriyovich Romanyuk, prepare Homutinik from the Reznick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u117	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill prepared for the implementation of the final provisions of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act is brought to your attention. I want to remind you that this law gives all the authority to set housing and utility tariffs exclusively to local governments. In this regard, it is necessary to amend the four legislative acts that now regulate the authorization of local executives and local self-government authorities to set prices and tariffs, as well as housing and utility standards. This is the Housing Code of Laws on Local Self-Government and on Local Government Administrations, and the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. The proposed bill provides for the distribution of authorisations, the establishment of tariffs for residential services and their consumption and standards of water and heat consumption in networks between rural, rural and urban councils, their executive committees, district and council areas, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, local government administrations. What's proposed. It is proposed that rural, rural and urban councils be given the right to approve housing and utility tariffs, which are granted to enterprises irrespective of their forms of ownership, except for the joint property of the territorial communities and to place them on the district and district for the purpose of establishing tariffs for such services for enterprises which are joint property of the territorial communities. In addition, the rules for granting the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Council of Ministers, which is the area of Kiev, Sevastopol City Administration, are being repealed. At the same time, local government administrations have established the right of State control over the maintenance of housing and utility tariffs, as provided for in Article five of the Housing and Utilities Act. This regulates the authorization of local councils, their executive bodies, and local public administrations for residential services. We propose to adopt the draft law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u118	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Homutinnik, Ukrainian National Deputy, author of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act stipulates that local self-government authorities approve housing and utility tariffs on economically sound production costs. The lower cost of residential services is only possible at the expense of the respective local budget. However, the income of local budgets is far from always able to cover the cost of community services for the population, which is practical and the cause of their high cost. Social services have already been hit by socially vulnerable groups. I now represent my district and my city, the city of Makiyivka, but I am convinced that this situation concerns every national MP representing a particular region. Today, local budgets remain alone in the tariff rise situation. And it is government policy in the area of housing services that must be based on the principles of social protection for citizens. This should also take into account the level of socio-economic development in the region concerned. This is not possible today because the Housing and Utilities Act does not provide for effective tariff regulation mechanisms. In such a situation, changes should also be made to the cost of the State budget. That's exactly the kind of change I'm introducing in the bill. In particular, the project is proposed to include costs to compensate for the difference between approved tariffs and economically based costs for their production to expenditure included in the determination of inter-budget transfers. As a result, the local budgets will be accounted for in the calculation of the allocations. The adoption of this bill will allow real reductions in housing and utilities tariffs, taking into account the socio-economic development of each region. Please support this bill. And I want to stress that he's not an alternative to government. The government bill speaks of one thing, the bill only speaks of allowing the State budget to grant to local budgets if there is no possibility in any other city to cover the deficit that there is. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u120	Igor Reznik, head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. It is true that Vitali Homutinnik cannot but agree that these two bills are not alternatives, but are self-existent. If the first one defines a body that dictates tariff policies, the second one provides a mechanism for reducing tariffs through the State budget. The Committee has considered both bills. And if Project 7473 was prepared, then the authority of local governments, local executives, was clearly divided with regard to the establishment of housing and utility tariffs. There are comments by the Chief Expert Office that the bill defines the same powers as rural, rural, urban, regional and regional councils. The exclusive competence of rural, rural and urban councils is to set tariffs for economic actors who are not jointly owned by territorial communities. For joint property enterprises, these are regional, district and municipal enterprises. The tariffs are set by the District District Councils, which is absolutely true. In view of the foregoing, draft law 7473 is proposed to be adopted as a basis. With regard to Law 7473-1, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Vitali Homutinnik, it is proposed that, under the bill, the expenses for the loss of the enterprise related to the approval of prices and tariffs for housing and utility services should not be provided in accordance with the local budget but should be effected through a grant. from the budget. A fundamentally different situation led the Committee to propose that the first bill should be adopted as a basis and that the second should be rejected. However, I do not think that we have all come to the same view on the Committee. There is another view, in particular that I fully agree with Homutinnik, which suggests that this tariff may be charged at the expense of the State budget. The only thing that, if adopted on first reading, is to define the limits of local self-government authorities so that we can really know what the real boundaries are in this area and whether they will simply translate them into the state budget. Therefore, there is a proposal for the first bill to be adopted as a basis and there is a proposal, I think equally important, on the first reading, to adopt the second bill, they are not alternatives, they are completely different in nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u122	Yeah, let's get down to business. We need two for, two for. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Next is Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u123	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Social enterprises today are in a difficult situation. Prices for utilities are rising while the capacity of most households remains low. Since ownership of utilities infrastructure is owned by the local community, it is the city’s responsibility to manage the community’s business. But unfortunately, today’s city authorities do not provide budgetary funding to support utilities. There is no reliable basis for cooperation between city authorities and utilities on joint service activities, but today, as we can see, not only in Kirovograd, but also in all of Ukraine, municipal services do not correspond to their value, because there is nowhere to be found children, which is, for example, the burning of houses by 30 percent, and they pay for all 100. And probably nowhere in the city of Kirovograd is such a monster in Ukraine that it is no longer available for more than 10 years. No hot water. And the street lights are almost gone. When you look at the exterior of the dwellings, the driveways, it’s just a horror. There is no light in the driveways. No repairs are carried out in the driveways. There's no door either. And the area around the houses and the driveways in such a state that you don’t go or come up and people pay a quarter just for what. Lately, residents of the buildings that are organized by the JEKs have become hostages. This happened to residents of homes on the University Prospect of Kirovgrad, where about one and a half thousand families were deprived of their housing rights. Because of their debt to energy, they regularly turn off their electricity for several weeks. And that's because the 12 houses pay for the utilities of the CHEW at the right time, but the CHEK just doesn't count them as utility bills. And that doesn't bother anyone. And it doesn't bother the city council either, because that's where the battle for the mayor's chair is going today, where there are up to 20 candidates. They too are more interested in the land’s acquisition in the city of Kirovograd. So we Communists are constantly saying that, first of all, the relationship between the city government, which is responsible for providing community services to the population, and the businesses that are designed to provide these services to consumers. And this mechanism, by the way, worked very well with the Soviet government, so you don't have to think of anything new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u124	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u125	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec Region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Possessions. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, broadcasters, listeners! The point is that, see how very clearly the executive power of what they've done over the years now wants to transfer to the representative bodies, to local self-government. I want to say that the faction of the Socialist Party is not going to support this bill. What functions should the executive authorities perform? The bill provides for monitoring by local government administrations of housing and utility tariffs. You see, on the one hand, the district council, where 20 people work, on the other hand, the district government, which has one and a half thousand. All the governments are there, completely authorized by everyone there. Now let's put this burden on the hands of the deputies of the appropriate councils, and let's say you want it, is that the proper council has set up such services as you, the honourable voters, you want us to do? Look how good we are and who you have chosen, what they are in your eyes! I think that the authors of this bill, the author, he, we're going to talk like this, have to work out a little bit more, work on the bill. And maybe even if the functions are performed by those who have the levers of power, not those who expect the proper administrations of submission, we'll talk about the budget of the local council. And it's always the final principle of financing local self-government, and today we all know that. Ukrainian housing companies are in a terrible state. We socialists understand that. But why do we want to put this terrible situation on the shoulders of the working people today, why they should. Pensioners only pay for utilities. Why the budget sector — teachers, health - care workers, and utilities — today have to wear this one, which is once again going up. So recently, the Chernobyl District Council decided to increase payments. The price of utilities. Who did they first lie on? To those people who paid on time. The faction of socialists in the Montenegrin District Council, led by Valérie Mikhailovich Pali, did not support such decisions. And I don't think they need to be supported, and I don't need to take on the burden that the executive authority should be responsible for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u126	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u127	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, Volodymyr Litwina People's Block. It's purely the substance of the bill. As far as Bill 7473-1 is concerned, if the quintension of the draft law is concerned, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act and the Ukrainian Budget Code. In particular, for the sake of clarity, these changes provide for the cost of reimbursement of prices, housing and utility tariffs, which are set in accordance with the rural, rural, urban council. Provide, not in an appropriate local budget, but on the basis of compensation grants from Ukraine’s State Budget. According to the People’s Party faction, the proposal cannot be supported, since industry and local governments will thus have no economic incentives for optimizing and reducing costs and energy-saving measures. And in our opinion, this is question number one today, once again, a reduction in spending and energy conservation. Moreover, this is not fully in line with the basic provisions of article 31 of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which, inter alia, is responsible for the decision to approve tariffs lower than the amount of economically based costs for their production, relies on the authority that has taken such a decision. In the event that such a legislative proposal is adopted, financial compensation will be fully invested in the State budget. Moreover, the implementation of the legislative proposal may result in a decrease in the level of responsibility of local self-government authorities for setting tariffs at the level of economically sound costs for their production due to a lack of their own income base to finance the corresponding expenditure. This, in turn, will result in an excessive burden on the budget. That's the point. That is why this proposal, legislatively, cannot be supported. We believe that the subject of the legislative initiative should work at least. But there are also some doubts about Bill 7473. In view of the fact that he no doubt deserves attention. At the same time, the faction of the People's Party considers the proposals to reconcile the proposed changes to the Housing Code with the figure of the 32nd Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act, which regulates the procedure for housing and utility payments, to be further worked out. Because the adoption of this change in this form can lead to the contrasting of local self - government authorities with the unnecessary competition of their decisions and actions that will only harm local communities. So in our opinion, both the first bill and the second in principle, the relevance of them and the importance of them need to be further developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u128	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please invite you to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters who listen to us! I'd like to ask you a few different ways to look at this bill. Housing and utilities is an area that provides normal living conditions for people. Therefore, the issue of tariff regulation in this system is a matter of State importance. Translating these issues into rural, rural, district or even city councils is absurd. We know that in 14 years, zero capital investments have been made in housing and utilities. No new energy-saving technologies are being introduced. Is there money for this from the village council, the village council, or the district council? Of course not. It is therefore the responsibility of the State, the Cabinet of Ministers and we, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine. Is there a scientific basis for housing and utility tariffs today? Nope. There's no justification for that, and everyone knows it. How can the village council really provide scientific justification for these tariffs? He can't. Today, what is included in the cost of services is dictated by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a ridiculous decision. And today, the Cabinet of Ministers, the new Government, the Government of Ehanurov, is introducing this bill, concealing its guilt, because the Cabinet of Ministers ruling, which today says that the cost of services is completely absurd, no one is reviewing it, and the rural, rural, urban councils must, excuse me, bear responsibility for it. Why is one square metre of space, including the disposal of debris in this regulation. It is not clear to all that the amount of garbage produced in the family depends on the number of people living. Why does this cost include services, home registration costs? Although there are no numbers, paint is used, and what kind of service can be spoken of? This completely abnormal decision of the Cabinet of Ministers must be lifted, revised, scientific development must be developed and only then will it be possible to talk about how local councils will regulate the issue. Let's move on. It's a matter of public importance. If we today apply tariff regulation to rural, rural, urban councils, that is to say that the issue of housing finance is the same. In doing so, the Government washes its hands. I believe that the draft law introduced by the MP should be adopted on first reading and further elaborated, and that the draft introduced today by the Government of Ehanurov should be rejected and made by the Government to work and date housing and utilities. This is the position of communists, not only the Supreme Council, but on all local councils. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u130	Yes, Your Honor, the matter has been discussed. Please, for the reasons of the vote, Zizko. I look only at those who are recorded and who have not been able to speak. Very briefly, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u131	Dear National Deputies, Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. In general, the bill can be completely adopted in the first reading. At the same time, I wanted to draw the attention of the government, especially the ministries, to the need for new approaches to housing and utility tariffs. First of all, the absurd setting of the heating tariff depends on the size of the apartment. Because if the height of the ceiling in the apartments can be between two and three feet [2.5 and 5 m] of the same area, it may require the same amount of heat. Therefore, the offer to set tariffs depends on the size of the dwellings. Even more tangible to consumers is an active system of tariffs that makes them pay not only the cost of their personal utilities, but also the cost of losing water channels and heat lines, the wearability of equipment, which is 50-90 percent. The consumer should not be concerned that on his way to his house half the hot water is outside the chimney. This is the problem of a community service organization. By acting on standards and tariffs, they are deliberately exaggerated for their purpose.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u133	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill tabled by the government of Yulia Timoshenko is intended to further complicate the position of each of the total tenants of the premises. Just look at it. In article 66, prime. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Next. Article 68 adds, in addition to the deadlines for the payment of rent and utilities or the payment of services for maintenance services for buildings and buildings and for residential areas. Although no such services are usually received anywhere. I see positive in this bill only amendments to the Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water, which authorizes the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district administrations to monitor compliance with tariffs. If we do not pass this law, we will not risk anything. That's why I'm suggesting we turn him down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u134	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u135	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the reform of the public services system has not taken a single step in 13 years. It's probably the only system we haven't moved anywhere. The system is very simple. The reform of the JCC as proposed is a deadlock in development. And in recent years, unfortunately, there has been a very simple solution, all the utility payments, all the increases that happen to the consumer. Generally, they have come up with a very simple scheme and a system: pensioners, teachers, doctors must compensate for all the problems that arise in the community service today. From here, we would legitimize, in a literal sense, payments for the water running down the street, for the heat we lost, for the cold apartments. And we're trying to find a way out of this situation. The proposed bills, which we are considering so far, are again proposing to find a way out, on whom and how to put costs. I have spoken and addressed the government, the utilities, on many occasions: let us reform the utilities, let us begin to understand what we are paying for and how these services work! Why should we pay for a locksmith we've never seen?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u136	All who wanted to do it, did they? Please prepare for the vote. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first draft law introduced by the Government, registration number 7473: the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis. The bill is government. I'd like to make a statement. Government! Government! I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:41]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The draft law, which is sponsored by the national deputy Homutinnik, is being put to the vote on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the regulation of housing and utility tariffs. Registration number 7473-1. I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. [[13:22:21]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Then let's move on. Let's look at the factions. The Communists – 54 “Regions of Ukraine” – 50, National Party – 42, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Block Timoshenko – 22, SPI – 1, Ukrainian People's Party – 4, SDPU(o) – 0, National Block – 0, “Trust of the People” – 1, “Reforms and Order” – 0, “One Ukraine” – 12, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 7. So let's do this so that we can continue our work. The second bill received 173 votes. The first one got less than 90. I'm sorry. So I can put the vote back on Bill 74. No, go back to the Bill 7473-1. Please vote. [[13:23:38]] For 224 We're not back. I'm voting on drafts, registration numbers 7473, 7473-1, for re-reading. Please vote. [[13:24:06]] For 296 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Provisional Procedure for the Financing of the Judiciary in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenko. Registration number of bill 4189.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u137	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill was registered on September 24, 2003. I think that if it was adopted, it would be possible to significantly improve the material and technical security of the courts. This is not about the salaries of judges and court officials. This is about the financial base of the courts. Because you know that today the courts are underfunded by about 40 to 50 percent. In fact, there is nothing to send to the parties to the trial. In principle, in some ways this bill is revolutionary. The point is that other principles of financing the judicial system are needed. Today, the head of the local court, the Court of Appeal, is in fact not the arranger of the funds. He can't even buy a code for a small sum of money without permission from the Treasury. The draft law therefore makes such proposals. Normatives, budget standards, are being developed annually. They are submitted to the State Judicial Administration. The National Court of Justice examines them and submits them to the Cabinet of Ministers, drawing up an appropriate budget plan. The Cabinet of Ministers should actually take them into account. If he doesn't, in the budget, in the draft budget, in the law, he writes an explanatory note to the Supreme Council why he doesn't take into account the positions he's taken from the judiciary. This is extremely principled. If there is a lack of funding for the judicial system in a given year, a plus 8% additional funding for the judicial system is foreseen for the following year. No matter how much we talk today about what the courts may be doing wrong, there is a complaint against specific judges if we do not create a proper financial, material basis for the judicial system, the case will not improve. Regrettably, there are some inadequacies in this bill that have been associated with more than two years. The Court of Cassation, the Court of Appeal, does not mention the Supreme Administrative Court. We'll be able to correct that in the second reading. To some extent, of course, the bill is an experiment. It is called the “temporary order of system financing”, which is set at 10 years. We, if we see an improvement in this regard, I think we can adopt a more stable law for the future. This bill is therefore supported by the courts of various branches, the Ministry of Justice, and the judiciary. And I think he'll find support in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u138	What, we're gonna vote, right? Let's have a brief discussion, the MPs insist. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u139	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština There is no secret that the problem of financing the judiciary in the State often leads to a de facto cessation of normal judicial activity, creating obstacles for citizens and organizations in the exercise of their rights to defend themselves greatly complicates the implementation of judicial reform. For a long time, there is a situation in which insufficient funds are allocated to the financing of judges. In practice, the cost of wages is taken into account and unfortunately, but the basic needs of material security, namely, judicial activity, the protection of judges, and the technical arrangements of the courts are not taken into account. Thus, it is not surprising that most courts have a pitiful appearance and are not equipped with new equipment. An outstanding example can be the “solution ” of these issues in the city of Kirovograd. The local court of Lenin district, located on the 6th floor of the “Ukraine” hotel, is located in the district of the state administration and the Mesquikonkam. This court pays for the hotel’s services as an ordinary guest who has come to the city. The Kyrovograd County Court of Appeal is located in a semi-contaminated building, and it is also forced to make a contract with the Mesikonkom on rent 7 on the floor of the Kiev Hotel in Kirovograd on general grounds. And as you can see, the courts of the Lenin district and the Kirovograd district use furniture and hotel equipment. And as long as our judges do justice in hotel rooms and in hotel beds, no ethics and professional activity will make them independent, because when these matters are resolved, they should go with a bow to the local authorities, which then gives instructions on how to make a decision. And if you don't agree, move out of the hotel. The bill is therefore relevant because it is designed to implement constitutional requirements for the independence of the judiciary and is intended to guarantee financial and material security for judicial activities. But at the same time, I would like to wish that in Ukraine the court was truly national, humane, and not serving oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u140	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Turn on the microphone, please. Get ready for Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u141	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party I fully support what Vassil Vasilovich Onopenko said right now, although I would like to take some of the paphos that he qualified as the purpose of this bill. He said it was a revolutionary step. I think that in order to reform the judiciary, we need to take a lot more of these steps in order to be at the level of a civilized country. I want to remind my colleagues that when we listened to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there were the most reprimands about what kind of judicial authority we had. And today, what happened before the Shevchenkow Court and so forth, all of this shows that, indeed, reforms have taken place today. I mean, why, am I underlining that? Because this step is made in the direction of transparency. Transparency is the main issue for judges today. And I think this bill is going to take this step. I would like to confirm this, at least with the sense contained in this bill, that the text of decisions, rulings, judgments, the approval of a court that has gained legal power and placed in the Single State Register of Judgments is open for free access to the official portal of the Ukrainian judiciary. That is, for today there is really an opportunity for everyone to see what is now being decided by a judicial decision. Well, I think that if there's a sense of what's, and that's, I think, important. Because it is said that this will increase the possibility of funding our judicial authority. In fact, it is in such a neglectful state. But I don't think that's going to depend on it, on this law. It's going to depend on how we form the budget and what we put in this budget. And that's about transparency, and that's the main thing. I think it's going to be a major step towards the democratization of the judiciary, the normalization of its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u142	Vitaly Oluiko, please, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Volodymyr Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u143	National Deputy Vitaly Oluiko, People's Party faction, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear National Deputies! The truth of independent courts can only be achieved by means of their financial independence from any, i.e. the maintenance of judicial institutions must be done at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. This is the main idea of the bill. This bill provides for the entire procedural chain of such funding. If approved, it will be possible to ensure that constitutional requirements for the independence of the judiciary are met. That is, the ominous breath, like the famous saying, about the law: as a breather, where you go back to, it's going to be a lot harder for tricksters and criminal elements to spin. However, when it comes to the financing of the judiciary from the state budget, citizens have the right to know how to use every piece of government treasury, in fact, their taxes. That's why the People's Party faction thinks it's a great advantage of this bill to have exactly the part of it that provides for regulating the use of budgetary resources. In doing so, the drafter of the bill should also take into account that the effectiveness of monitoring the use of budgetary resources and the prevention of breaches of budgetary discipline can ensure not only the planning and pre-planned checks of the judicial authorities but also the improvement of the form of public control. The National Party faction believes that Ukrainian society has long been awaiting such a legislative act. Therefore, I propose to support it by voting and to further develop it in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u144	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u145	The Communist faction, Cherkashina. The draft Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Order of Financing of the Judiciary in Ukraine, of 24 September 2003, introduced by Vasil Vasilovic Onopenko, will be supported by the Communist faction in the first reading. You know that the principles and procedures for the financing of the courts are set out in articles 120 and 121 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice. And the fact that Vasil Vasilovich passed the law, first of all, I think that the constitutional right of the courts to have those assimilations so that they're really independent of the authorities and of those regimes that change and pressure the courts. The budgetary allocations needed to finance the courts are determined on the basis of budgetary standards for funding the courts. It depends on this project. Most importantly, the budgetary requirements for the financing of the courts are documents that, on the basis of financial calculations, indicate the sums of money that must be allocated to cover the full costs required to ensure the efficient and smooth functioning of the courts during the calendar year. That's the main thing, because when we go around the area and meet with the judges and the heads of the courts, they complain that there's no funding in that room. And most of all, Vasil Vasilovich: it is not just about funding the courts, it is about helping those people who are socially vulnerable to the courts. Because the legal needs, the other issues, even make it possible to assist in the drafting of documents. It is I who think that the courts should be fully financed, and then the courts will really serve the people. I've called on this rostrum a number of times, and I've been addressing you, Vasil Vasilovich. Nevertheless, our legal committee needs to be more involved in court matters. We're in Cherkas. I've been to the Pridniprovsky District Court on several occasions. Good room, good people work, but there's a note in the electorate. First of all, how are things handled? Maybe it's not full funding. But judges should really serve people. And I'm going to say that if I'm being run against today and the legislation in my residence plan is being broken, the documents that get courted come to me through my relatives and so on. What about the common man who is being judged today? I think this should be taken into account and, I think the courts should really, I support Puzakov completely, serve the people, not the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u146	Yes. Dear colleagues, a black man of motive, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u147	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the bill may be needed in terms of improving the financing of the judiciary. But it's a palate. This bill will not protect the judiciary from pressure, bribery, corruption. If the minister of justice is referring to the Mafia, what can be spoken of? We now need first judicial reform. And only through judicial reform can we get out of this situation that we're in. This is the most urgent need, the most pressing need for Ukraine is the reform of the judicial system. And if such qualified lawyers as Onopenko were to propose a bill on judicial reform, I think that would be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u148	Jaroslav Suhi, please. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u149	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, faction of the Party of the Regions, “Regions of Ukraine”. The bill certainly needs to be supported. And what's more, it's written in Vassil Vasilovich's style neatly, thoroughly and in detail. He certainly should be told today, thank you for this bill. But we realize that if we do, we will be able to significantly improve the status of an independent branch of government. But I want to address Mr. Galchinsky here today, the point is that you have judges who, without our drafts, who are not beautiful enough to accept them, are going to lower this status. In particular, the Judge of the Pecher Court, the legendary Cave Court, decides to take away part of the shares of the Motor Sic company and to hand over to another firm that has not even taken part in the competition. It takes a decision to get the commission together, four years ago that worked, there's two already dead, there's a committee to gather together, pick the guy up from the grave, and declare him a winner of this firm. We don't need sports competitions today -- we need to go to court, the law needs to be upheld, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u150	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm here to make sure our courts are financed as best as possible. But I am for our courts to be courts, not, forgive me, the markets that turned into, in particular, the Ukraine's Supreme Economic Court. So I've been raising these questions, and again I'm drawing your attention, what might be the temporary order of funding the judiciary? There could be changes to the Budget Code, changes to the State Budget Act for each year. We can't predict everything ten years in advance. That's the first thing that matters. And second of all, we give the right and we say. commission to write off the amount of uncounted cash in a single treasury account. And the teachers, and the doctors, can everyone else do that or not? Should we not finance everything? So I'm in favor of first reading, but let's still come to our senses, and we're going to write down the basic laws and change our approach to the judiciary at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Now, let's listen to the position from the judicial branch of power. And we'll vote. Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The judiciary in the person of the higher representative body, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, as well as the High Council of Justice and, of course, the State administration is pleased that you are considering today, and hopefully approved the bill in the first reading. He's been working here for two years. Moreover, it is the development of those provisions of article 120 of part three and fourth of the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokustvoj Ukraine, which you voted back in 2001, which already laid down the features of financing the judicial branch of power. But, in fact, these standards remained unfulfilled. I have to say that this law does not apply to the formation of the State budget, it does not affect its size, it just defines certain principles, the order of financing. What is temporary, of course, will change. Today, it is very, very important. On behalf of those awaiting this law, I ask that it be approved in the first reading. Of course, the shortcomings will be corrected by all of us together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u153	Yes, Your Honor, please prepare for the vote. It is put to the vote for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the Temporary Order of Financing of the Judiciary in Ukraine. Registration number 4189. Please vote. [[13:43:59]] For 278 Decision taken. The draft Law on Access to Judgments is being announced for consideration. Reporter Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko. Registration number 8053.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, colleagues, for your support. Dear colleagues, the Law on Access to Judgments aims to ensure that all the parties to the trial, and not only the participants, can get to know each other free of charge, I stress, with all the court decisions as they entered legal force, starting with the local court, ending with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I think it's extremely important in terms of the fact that we're going to have the only practice that we're going to have even a proper legal prophylaxis, and even the legal education of our population. I think Ukraine has been waiting for such a future law for a long time, and I am grateful to my colleagues for the committee that helped me work on it. It is official publication and publication of court rulings and is not official. The official publication of judicial decisions will take place at the Court's Web Portal in Ukraine, when the court decisions are registered in a single State register that will be kept by the State administration. Unofficially, it's completely different, and there's other consequences. In the process of drafting the bill, proposals were made so that the texts of court decisions open to citizens of Ukraine in accordance with this law could not disclose information that allowed them to identify a natural or legal person. For example. The name, after the father and surname of the physical person. Appointment of a legal person, address of a place of residence or residence of a natural person. Address the location of the legal persons. Phone numbers and stuff. Vehicle registration numbers and other information that enables you to identify a natural or legal person. We have also taken into account international requirements on this issue. These included the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Private Persons on the Automated Processing of Private Data. Recommendations from the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on access to official information and recommendations from the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the selection of processing and presentation of archiving of court decisions, and many other common positions. I think that this bill just has no alternative to being accepted in the first reading with a basis. And we will be grateful if you make appropriate suggestions for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u155	Yes. Dear colleagues, let's move on to making a decision, shall we? Yuri Carmazin with motive, we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to pay attention to how important this law is. Today there are situations, including those that have been dealt with in reprivatization, when people find out that there is a court decision without being invited to court, without calling in officials of the State Property Fund, without putting the State Property Fund, in general, into what is known and so forth. So tomorrow you can learn that some national court in Poltava will decide that you are a resident of some mumbo jumbo country. It is therefore very important for us to adopt such a law “On access to judicial decisions of every Ukrainian citizen”. This will guarantee the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens most fully. And so I would ask everyone right now, although few of us have left before the break, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Law on Access to Decisions. Registration number is 8053. Please vote. [[13:49:06]] For 329 The bill was adopted as a basis. We continue our work for 15 minutes, our morning session. Announcing the draft Law on the Status of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We have here a draft decision on inadmissibility. Let's maybe do this: we'll listen to the report of the author of the bill, then the drafter of the inadmissibility decree, and then we'll continue to determine what we're going to do. Anatoly Bartholomew Rahanski
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u158	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky, Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 4th Eupatoria constituency Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Crimea. Colleagues, it has happened that for nine years the members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have been working without law, which prevents them from effectively exercising their parliamentary powers. Furthermore, article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of the ARC stipulates that the status of a member of the Supreme Council of the Crimea shall be determined only by appropriate law. The bill defines the forms of the exercise by a member of the Supreme Council of its powers, the rights of a member of the Supreme Council of the ARC and their organs. In particular, for the introduction of draft legislation and other acts for the consideration of the Supreme Council and its Presidencies. The work of an electoral deputy, the right to a parliamentary request and a parliamentary appeal, as well as the duties of a deputy, responsibility, and so forth. The bill takes into account the standards of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the ARC Supreme Council deputies, members of local councils, rural, rural, urban heads, and changes in the concept and structure of the bill. The bill takes into account the rules for the deputies of the Supreme Council of Crimea, which are provided for in the Ukrainian Law adopted by us on September 8, 2006, “To amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils”. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill is now more relevant than ever before the elections. The adoption does not require additional costs from the State Budget, as funding for the provision of funding for the activities of the Supreme Council of Crimea is provided for in a separate line in the budget of the autonomous Republic. Begging, Your Honor, to support this bill as a basis. Your comments and suggestions will be included in the second reading. The main scientific and expert office supports, and also the training committee and the Ministry of Justice. In our opinion, as well as hundreds of ARC Supreme Council deputies, the future composition of the Crimea Supreme Council cannot work without status, or working rules. Keep in mind that all members of all levels have this status from the village council to the district council. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u159	Yes, thank you, too. Please, the committee. Ivanzo Ivan Vasilovich. After that, Sergey Wizko of the Inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u160	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Rahansky People’s Deputy Bill on the status of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime is somewhat late today, since the ARC Supreme Council deputies, unlike all other members of the Supreme Council, do not have a law to determine the status, mandate, rights, duties, responsibilities of deputies, their legal and social guarantees, and the exercise of their parliamentary powers. That is why the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government recommends to the Supreme Council, regardless of certain comments and suggestions to the bill, to accept it as a basis for further development of the second reading. The author of the bill agrees with the comments and we all agree, by working on this bill for the second reading, to finally regulate the status of MP of the Supreme Council of the ARC by law. A number of articles are most needed for further development, but the comments concerning members of the military, the Navy, the work of law enforcement authorities on the protection of their labour rights, the guarantees of parliamentary activity, the inviolability of members of the ARC Supreme Council, the order in which they are released and brought to administrative and criminal responsibility, and other articles require substantial work. These observations may have to be implemented, but they do not affect the adoption of the project as a basis and should be accepted. The committee therefore proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u161	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Sergey Zizko, please. Your argument. Microphone. Well, if you're comfortable, here or there. It's better here, I think, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u162	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The bill on the status of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea cannot be supported because it is in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, part two of article 26 of the bill states that a precautionary action against a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the form of imprisonment may only be applied by a court of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. However, this is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, which has not defined individuals who use the integrity of such a category as the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. All Ukrainian citizens must be equal before the law. The practice of creating privileged social groups must be stopped. Instead of allowing the integrity of MPs, let us work better on reforming justice so that every Ukrainian citizen feels protected. Taking into account the foregoing and in accordance with Article 3.5. 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I propose that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u163	Yes, Your Honor, shall we vote? Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk microphone. And Carmazin one minute, yes. And school for one minute. Mikhail Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u164	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask, according to the Rules, three minutes, not one minute. It refers to the fact that the bill would certainly need to be finalized for the second reading and that the first reading should be accepted as a basis for adoption. The Socialist faction will vote in favour of the bill. I would like, my fellow Members, to pay attention, in general we should consider our own MPs' questions, and then we complain that our MPs are not being considered, and there is no answer in time. Imagine the deputies of district, city, district councils. How they respond when they speak. And until we consider it in Parliament, we will not support our colleagues, there will be no effective work at different levels in the seats of MPs. I literally have it right over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u165	Give me a chance to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u166	I'm saying it basically. Because if we cannot maintain the level of appeal of the MPs, please refer to local councils and members of local councils. For six months now, I have received answers to my appeals to the Attorney General's Office regarding the appeals made by the village of Kozino Mironowski. Here I read a complaint from the head of the district government that he sent to Alexander Frost. I'd like to have this Assadch head. I accepted those people who came to me. And it's not for me to deal with the village of Kozino Mironovsky, it's for Assadch. To do things that even people don't want to do. The Moroccan prosecutor's office in general ignores the appeal of citizens of the village of Kozino. Therefore, there is no need to discuss the issue of this bill. So the faction of socialists will support it both on the basis and in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u167	Just a minute. One minute, I just wrote it down, Andrew School. Then Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is only bad that this bill is not being discussed in full volume. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u169	Please, three minutes, we'll discuss it in full. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u170	Thank you. But I was supposed to have three minutes, but I wrote one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u171	Three minutes. It's a technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u172	Thank you. It's okay now. Because this bill, in fact, contains enough of the positives that line up the election situation to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to the Supreme Council. But there is a question. First of all, we need to state that the bill contains a significant number of novelties, particularly with regard to factions, parliamentary coalitions. And there is a need for us to change the additions to the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Law of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the draft does not change the bill. Therefore, the faction actually insists that we consider this to be a re-reading of the first reading, because we need to change conceptually, this cannot be introduced in the second reading, when we are referring to the need to amend the complement to the Constitution of the Republic of Crime and the Law on Elections to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'm not saying yet that there are still such requirements for a long time in the territory of the Autonomous Republic. This also needs to be considered, because this may to some extent impede the exercise of its right to choose and be elected to those who have moved to a permanent residence in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea but do not live as defined by this bill for the number of time. So I would recommend that the faction would actually support the idea itself, but in the concept of re-reading. And now I'd like to take my time, because these elections in Crimea are still going to take place under the existing law. And the rush is needed in a different way, but not in a given way. And speaking of elections in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we need to remind ourselves that we have proposed and the Supreme Council has proposed as a bill to supplement the bill on elections to local authorities. What does that mean? It is to consider elected to the district council and district councils that have overcome the three - percent barrier to the Supreme Council in order to preserve the integrity of the party’s representation in Ukraine rather than allow for the formation of regional small structures and a party of such commercial states. So I urge the people's deputies present to hold back and support this bill for a re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u173	Yes, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, today we are proposing a bill that, in my view, deals in principle with the status of the member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Because we are actually getting a legislative hole in this situation, which, so to speak, is difficult to find any explanation, especially, for the suggestions that we should move on to re-first reading. I think today we have every reason to accept it on first reading. Because when we adopt it in first reading, we therefore agree with you that there is this problem, that this problem needs to be resolved, that it needs to be approached and written out. Moreover, there is a time gap, in fact, today. Until the next election, until 26 May 2006 there was not much time left. This, on the other hand, is quite sufficient to ensure that, by adopting the bill as a basis for working out, eliminating all these legislative gaps, all these distortions or failures and making it a valid law, because in any case there is a distinct internal entity of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, respectively, that the status of their deputies should be appropriate. Therefore, I think that we are fully entitled to deal with you not only with the position of the authors and deputies of the Republic of Crimea who offer us today to accept it on first reading and undertake to settle for second reading all questions and any comments that exist. But on the other hand, we probably have reason to listen to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which literally sounds like a summary of the results of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and proposals made. That is why we will have the right support today. And I think that the members of the Lithuanian People's bloc will vote in favour of the first reading with a clear conviction that the authors and initiators will fulfil their obligations and that second reading will address all the inconsistencies in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u175	Yuri Solomatin. Yuri Carmazin, please. We have to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u176	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. First of all, allow me to thank the People's Deputy Anatoly Rahanski for introducing the bill back in 2004, and then, after seeing that some mistakes were made there, he reworked it, worked it out, and he gave us a changed version. And right now we're looking at a revised version of this bill that's already been thoroughly worked out. At the same time, considering it necessary to adopt the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and respecting their status as the highest representative body of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I would like to caution in this case against establishing separate rules: the pension security of a member who exercises his pension authority as provided for in article 30 of the draft. I would like to caution against adopting the standards set out in article 26: a precautionary measure for a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea: in the form of imprisonment, can only be applied by a court with the consent of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This means that even if this man commits a murder or some other serious crime, he cannot be detained at all – this contradicts both the Constitution of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedure Code in this way. This is quite contrary to the changes and additions accepted by the Supreme Council and the President has signed, to the characteristics of the criminalization of members of local councils, rural councils, villages, and so forth. Therefore, honourable national MPs, this second paragraph of article 26 and article 30 should be deleted in accordance with the Rules, because today, when we adopt the bill in the first reading, we define the conceptual principles of the adoption of the law, we support the concept, and the concept should be the only one: the implementation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the creation of proper conditions, not just for officials, not just for MPs, but primarily for their electorate, for every Ukrainian citizen living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I am confident that the adoption of this law will serve the criminals themselves, to ensure their interests, to meet the demands of the People's Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to carry out their appeals. And I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put to the vote the adoption of this law along with the deletion of article 30 and article 26, paragraph two, as conflicting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u177	Yes. Four people spoke. Please, Chubarov. One minute, please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u178	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable national MPs, even though the law has certain shortcomings, could be accepted in the first reading. The second reading must be accompanied by a standard of residence, since in such a situation the rights of Crimean Tatars that have just returned to their homeland may be restricted, or in recent years. The second problem is the problem of not being touched. Since we are being brought before the Constitutional Court of the Institute of Intactness concerning the deputies of local councils today, this is due to the adoption of a certain law, I think that in the second reading and in general we can only confirm this law after we have a constitutional decision from this submission. So I would just like to ask you, in support of the first reading, to bring it to an end and to await the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-11-29-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The first is the committee’s proposal to vote. Oh, about the inadmissibility. The author is a national deputy, Žizko. Yes. Now I'm going to find out where he is. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Status of the Deputy of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime is put to the vote”, registration number 5279/P1. Please be sure. It's about the inadmissibility of the vote. [[14:10:01]] For-55 Now, if you'll have your attention. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft law on the status of the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5279. Please vote. It's about inadmissibility. No, no, no, no. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[14:10:29]] For 211 Ladies and gentlemen, you have understood everything, so I would like to pay attention, please, to the vote on the return to the draft law on the status of the High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5279. Please vote. [[14:10:59]] For 248 We're back. I now vote on the adoption of the draft law on the status of the Deputy High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 5279. Please vote. [[14:11:27]] For 255 Decision taken. Thus, honourable national MPs, we have every reason to declare a recess. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. I would like to remind you, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council at 5 p.m. on the third floor, with the participation of the leaders of the deputy factions, the heads of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, the representatives of the President and the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us discuss a draft law amending the Local Elections Act so that we can consider it in detail tomorrow.
