ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:52]] The 424 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Gureev Vasil Mikolaiovich. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary mode on 21 April 2005. 17 issues of the agenda - 8 bills and 10 draft regulations have been discussed. Three laws were passed as a result of the review, one bill was adopted in the first reading on the basis of one bill, one bill was designed to be drafted, two bills were rejected, one bill was withdrawn, 10 decrees were adopted. Now for the announcement. [[B in m in s a l in]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich, into the National Party. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 The Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the Ulyssian bloc of Timoshenko, political parties: the All-Ukrainian Association of "Bakkovština", the Ukrainian Republican Party "Sbor", the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party - from 21 April 2005 - inform that additionally elected National Deputies were appointed by the authorized representatives of this faction: Zubov Valentina Sergiyovitch, Kirilčuka Evgena Ivanovich, Tarana Viktor Vasilovic. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is one question that we need to discuss and, if you agree, make the right decision. May I have your attention, please, please invite the deputies to the session room? Fellow Members, I am approached by a number of MP factions and groups, directly national deputies with proposals: so that the plenary meeting scheduled for our schedule for May 4th and May 6th this year is not held in connection with the need to take part in the actions on May 9th, Victory Day. So these days, you work directly in the districts, in the polls, directly. If you had no objection, I would put to the vote this proposal: to change the calendar of our session, predicting the fourth and sixth May work in the districts. Who's in favour of the proposal, please vote, and we'll make the right decision. Please vote. [[10:07:19]] For 353 Decision taken. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 On Friday we have 30 minutes to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. In the meantime, allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come to the Secretariat. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir LECHENKA to the President of Ukraine on the status of the implementation of the agreement on the creation of a single economic space. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:20]] For 181 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:45]] For 239. Decision taken. Alexander VOLKOVA to the President of Ukraine on the issue of a visa for entry into Ukraine for a political refugee, Mr. Plato Yelina, on the basis of an invitation from a group of national deputies. [[Mr Boris Berezowski]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:18]] For-19 The decision is not supported. The offer is not supported. Gennady WUDOVENKA to the President of Ukraine on the critical condition of financing the reconstruction of the Shevchenkov National Reserve, restoration and reconstruction work on the historic sites of Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:09:51]] For 207 Supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:10:12]] For 299 Decision taken. Igor ŠURMI to the President of Ukraine on the illegal closure of criminal cases against the Director-General of the Food Company, the member of the Politburo Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Rybchenk. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:10:44]] Z-91 I read it like I was given. Ninety-one. The decision is not taken. I ask the secretariat to clarify and provide relevant information, please. Then I'll apologize for the secretariat if an error is made. Please find out and give me information. Andrew SCHOOL to the President of Ukraine on violations committed during the trial of the March 9 case and its hearing in court. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:30.]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Valery BORZOVA and Efima FIXA to the President of Ukraine on the illegality of the closure by the Attorney-General of a criminal case for the fact that the murder of the citizen of Zerbek was committed by the National Deputy, a member of the faction “Our Ukraine” by Alexi Kozachenko. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:07]] For-89 The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, I read the original request from President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine for the illegal closure of criminal cases against the Director-General of the Food Company, Igor Shurma, a member of the Socialist Party's Politburo. I would ask Igor Shurma to clarify, because Politburo does not have a socialist party in Ukraine. Group of National Deputies to the President of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of the requirements of articles 78 and 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the non-compliance of the parliamentary mandate with other activities of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, ministers, heads of State administrations, heads of other State institutions and offices. [[The hare, the storm, the granite, and others. Total 6 deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:13:20]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of assistance to the Pirate Training and Production Company of the Blind in the conclusion of contracts for the production and supply of products. Anatolia KUKOBI to the Prime Minister for the award of a subsidy from the State Budget for the construction of housing for military personnel. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister for the allocation of gasification funds to the town of Johnopil and the village of Stepok of the Great District of the Žitomir region. Valentin SAVIĆKO to the Prime Minister for the financing of hop farming in the Olev region of Žitomir. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister regarding the repayment of the debt of utilities from centralized water supply and water supply for electricity consumption. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Prime Minister for not allowing the hospital to be closed to scientists at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. valentine SAVIC to the Prime Minister on the adjustment of the premiums for the purchase of cremated gas for veterans of the Oleuvian region of the Žitomir region, at the expense of budgetary resources. Igor CHELOMBITCH to the Prime Minister for the extraordinary situation that took place in Jaskov. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on the liquidation and illegal privatization of the network of state and municipal pharmacies in the Poltava region. [[QUICHAN, ASADCHEV, SIRKO]] Anatolya KLIMEN to the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the body of the Institute of Phtysiatrics and Pulmonology of Janowski's name for the treatment of children. Ms. Alexander KYSELVA and Mr. FYXA to the Prime Minister, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers for the verification of the authenticity of the Autobiographical Information of the Minister of Justice regarding his graduation from Columbia University and the availability of higher legal education. Victor ZAIČKA to the Prime Minister for the funding to complete the construction of the memorial complex for Sevastopol’s defence participants in 1941 - 1942. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the facts of criminal privatization, the illegal sale of property and apartments, the increase in wages payable in the Lutsk silk combine of the Volinsk region. Jury KROWROČKA to the Prime Minister on the gross violation and cynical interference of the President of the Russian Federation in the internal affairs of Ukraine. To the Prime Minister, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for the funding for the completion of the 108th residential building in the city of Dublin, Lviv district, which has been under construction since 1989. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Prime Minister regarding the threat of the liquidation of the Sevastopol branch of the Ukrainian Hydrographic Service in connection with its restructuring. Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Prime Minister on the cessation of the process of destruction of the Winnick State Centre for Scientific and Economic Information, the production of state policy in the field. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Prime Minister for the clarification of the border crossing of the Moscow railway line of the State border of Ukraine in the Mid-Bud region of Suma. Alexia Korsakova to the Prime Minister on the environmental problem that resulted from the underground nuclear explosion on the “Young Communist” mine of the production union of the city of Jenakiyev. Boris ZAGREVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the facts of the artificial bankruptcy of the municipal company Luckvodokal for the purpose of its further privatisation. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the robbery of landowners of the village of Mihnivka, the Rechetil district, the region of Poltava by the Kyiv investor Skupija and the lack of a proper response to the complaint of the villagers of the village of Prime Minister on this matter by the local authorities. Mr. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of gasification funds for the village of Stanislavczyk, Cherkas region. VALLERY TO THE Prime Minister in Ukraine for the special count of citizens. Vladimir JENKA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the boiler and the replacement of the heating system of the teaching corps of Korsun, the Shevchenkov Pedagogical School of the name of Shevchenka. Anatolya PISTARENKA to the Prime Minister for the continuation of the construction of the gas pipeline of the village of Desina Corstene region – Old Bobrik Volordarsko-Volinsky district and completion of the construction of the school in the village of Solodiri Volinsko-Volinski district of the Žitomir region. Michael SETINE and Mary MARKUSH to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee for the implementation of the monopoly-voluntary tariffs on freight, which lead to the destruction of domestic production. Ivan TOMIĆA to the First Deputy Prime Minister for the non-response of the finalization of the gasification of the localities of the Ternopil region and the village of Tekuč of the Kosovo region of Ivano-Frankov region. Mr. Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to Vice Prime Minister Mikli Tomenka, Minister of Health for the Unfavorable Epidition of Tuberculosis in the Orikh region of Zaporez. Petra PISTARCHUKA to Deputy Prime Minister Mikolio Tomenk, Attorney General, on the violation of current legislation in the discharge of the post of editor of the Premyslánska District newspaper “The Galician Way” of the Lviv region and the persecution of it by local officials. Mr. Viacheslav KOVALJA to Vice-Prime Minister Mikolia Tomenka on the official recognition of the precise date of the establishment of the city of Nicole Dnipropetrovsk. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Defence for the Criminal Responsibility of the Military Prosecutor of the Central Region – Senior Justice Adviser of Demenka, Head of the Central Eastern Building Department of the Ministry of Defence of Colonel Isenek for corruption, abuse of power, excess of authority, which led to the alienation of the children's health institution “The Star” and caused material damage to the Ministry in a particularly large way. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General on the state of criminal investigation into the facts of the hearing and surveillance of Ukrainian citizens by the state services and commercial services. Valentin ZUBOVA to the Attorney General for the criminal acts of the Slovenian city’s Levite head during the 2004 presidential election campaign. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Attorney General, head of the State Property Fund, for the bankruptcy of the municipal company Lutskvodokal of Volin Region. Mr. Jaroslav Kendzior and Mr. Dawimuki to the Attorney-General, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and organization of the work of the Supreme Council, Head of the High Council of Justice on the examination of the facts of interference with the work of the judicial bodies of a member of the High Council of Justice, National Deputy Stephen Gavrish. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service for the establishment of persons involved in the falsification of the telephone conversation announced on “5 channels”, attracting them to criminal responsibility for poisoning the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine Victor Yushchenk and for falsifying the author of the newspaper “Grani Plus” Kočekova. Mr. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for an inappropriate and biased examination of the criminal case of citizen Movcan Trostiansky District Court of Suma County. TO THE Attorney - General’s Office, Boris is responsible for violating the rights and interests of the people of Kiev in the land under siege. Jaroslav KENJORA and Bogdan KOSTINJUK to the Attorney-General on the verification of violations of legislation by officials of the Open Shareholders' Association “Staffing Blanche” in the course of export and import operations. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Justice on the invocation of responsibility for failure to execute a court decision and the abuse of the office of executive officers and the State Treasury. [[CHELNOKOV, ALEXIEV, LOBOD]] Tarasa ČRONOVOLA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs on the pressure on entrepreneurs by the management of a limited-liability “Ternopil product market” society and its shadow schemes under the cover of corrupt officials in local authorities and law enforcement structures. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on the facts of illegal construction and distribution of housing and office abuse in the Ministry of Defence. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General, head of the Antimonopoly Committee to test the legality of the reduction in the purchase price of milk by the Winnick Milk Plant. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney-General for the members of the Preyaslav-Hmelnicke City Election Commission of the Kyiv Region, who have been relieved of their election or service duties. ALEXANDRA CARENKA to the Attorney General’s Office for the investigation of a bribe given to a civil servant in the course of his official duties. Vladimir GOSHOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, for the establishment of State guarantees and the total number of estranged carbon units and for the legal evaluation of the actions of officials of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on this issue. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the Legality of Increasing the Cost of Traveling in the City of Winnice. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General for unlawful actions by the Head of the Provincial Regional Administration of Zeinalov regarding the provision of fire-fighting crops. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General for the abuse of office as Head of the Provincial Regional Administration of Zeynal. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Attorney General regarding criminal cases brought against the Head of the Herson State Administration of Silenkov for abuse. BORISS TO THE PROcurator - general regarding violations of the Constitution and legislation in the performance of official duties by the Head of the Volin State Administration, Bondar. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, the Minister of Education and Science, regarding the investigation of illegal release and political pressure by the leadership of the Ostróskie District State Administration of the province for education workers in the region. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney General on the legality of the privatization of sites previously owned by the Parish family in the Chernig region. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney-General on the illegal refusal of registration of the initiating group from the local referendum by the local community of Chernigov and the violation of the law by the Montenegrin City Head Sokolovi. THE Minister of Internal Affairs, Mr. Luzenko, is under the requirements of article 121 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure in connection with the publication of information on the calls to the investigating authorities of persons who are actually accused by the media. Mikoli Sherschun to the Attorney General, Justice Minister, Harkowe City Council on the facts of non-compliance with legislation and the deliberate delay in the execution of court decisions in the case of the eviction of Dionysus in Kharkiv from non-residential premises owned by a natural person. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the verification of the abuse of power, forgeries, fraud by the Director of the Society with limited liability of “Pruda” and service negligence in the examination of the facts by the officials of the Belgrade-Dnistrovsk district of Odessa. Lilia GRIGOROVIĆ to the Attorney General on the offence of falsification of the election results at the polling station No. 70 of the territorial constituency No.223 of Kiev. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the Attorney General on the legality of the decision of the Kiev City Council to take the land to the Open Shareholder Society “AK Kyivvodokal” for the construction of a high-rise building at the Academy. VALERIA BORZOVA to the Attorney General regarding the criminal acts of a number of newly appointed senior officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the heads of other central executive bodies published in the address of employees of the external observation of Ukraine to senior officials of the State and the Attorney General. MICHELLA’S U.S. Attorney - General, Minister of Internal Affairs, in connection with the involvement of the Chernigian city chief in criminal responsibility for the abuse of power and the excess of official authority. Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Crimes of Workers of the Anti - Bribery Department of the Poltavian Economic Crime Service regarding the citizen of Kožuška, a resident of the Shishek district of Poltava. Michael KOSIVA to the Attorney General’s Office for the review of the decisions in the case of Victor Klish. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of the Death of Helen Demco, a resident of the city of Dobluń and the legality of the activities of law enforcement officials in the investigation of cases involving the activities of gangs in the territory of the district of Doblunov. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the theft of collective property, the purposeless use of the budget allocated for the gasification of villages, the head of the agricultural society Klushnika Głusznika Mirgorodski district of Poltava. Jury OF OROBJA AND STEPAN HMARA to the Attorney-General on the criminal offence in respect of the Kyiv Municipal Election Commission and individual members of the District Electoral Commission in the constituency No.60 by election of the deputy of the Kyiv City Council on 27 March 2005, namely, Grecanyuk, Klimenko, Lukachuk, Mordovina, Semenyuk, Heartedek, whose actions include the signs of crimes provided for in articles 158, 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Aleksandra VASILJEVA to the Attorney General, the Minister of Education and Science on the illegal layoffs and political persecution of education workers in the Ddolbunj district of Hershun, Ustianchuk, and Mahmukh, the head of the Ddolbunj district government administration, Svetlana Nikolina, and the abuse of her official powers. ALEXANDRA STANA to the Attorney General on the legality of the acquisition of “Cotopolcommunity Energy” of the “Skoda” brand car for the newly appointed head of the Kostopil District State Administration, Yaroslav Bilik. Alexander KEMENYACHA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the construction of a passenger platform in the village of Podvinograd, Zacarpathian district. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the violation of the rights of employees convicted by internal affairs agencies in the cities of Dimitrov and Krasnoarmia and the Prosecutor’s Office in the Donetsk region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Defense for a critical situation that occurred in the military town of Kirovograd-25 in connection with the closure of the military infirmary. Paul MATWEIENKA to the Ministry of Finance regarding changes in the number of budget estimates for the city budget and inter-budget transfers for 2005 in the city of Korosten in the region of Žitomir. Mr. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Minister of Finance, Head of the State Tax Administration on the provision of information on the amount of tax revenue for the fourth quarter of 2004 and the first quarter of 2005. Kirila POLIČUKA to the Minister of Justice regarding the execution of the court’s decision and the granting of the right of residence of a citizen named Shaparenko. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy on the solution of social problems related to the closure of Mine No. 5 “Greatness” of the State Holding Company “Until coal”. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVI to the Minister of Defense for the situation at the “Kwartz” State Enterprise. Victor DRACHEVSKI to the Ministry of Health on the collective appeal of ambulance workers and voters in the 35th constituency on the allocation of ambulances to the medical institutions of the cities of Nicopol and Marganza. Olga HINZBURG to the Ministry of Health regarding the allocation of the Tubular Department of the Crolevetsky Central District Hospital of the Suma District of Rengeno and Fluorographic Devices. Vácheslav KOVALJA to the Minister of Justice concerning the creation of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Simferopol. ULJANČENKO’S faith in the Ministry of Culture and Arts for the verification of the use of the Poltavian Regional Funding Philharmonic. Ms Alexander KEMENYASA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister for Family Affairs, Children and Young People with regard to the provision of accommodation for residents of the town of Zakarpatsk in connection with the birth of a trinity To the Ministry of Health, Vladimir YAVORIYSKO, on the prevention of the elimination of the cancer ward of the daily hospital No. 25 of Donetsk. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the question of the protection of the constitutional right of a citizen named Pavloví to pension insurance. Anatolia GREZEVA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the delay in receiving insurance payments to the families of members of the JAC-42 plane crew who suffered a disaster on May 23, 2003, in Turkey. Andrija SCHOOL to the Minister of Justice for the Prohibition of the Activities of the Political Party of the Ukrainian National Assembly. Gennady RUDENKA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on misconduct in the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Poltav region in the management of personnel matters. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Ministry of Health for the completion of construction and the prevention of the creation of a criminogenic environment in the area of the former Children’s Sanatorium “Change” in the city of Eupatoria. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Ministry of Health, the State Tourism Administration, the Herson District State Administration for the definition of the Scottish Health Zone of the Herson Region as a child's resort of national importance. Anatolysa OF ORJAHOV to the Ministry of Health regarding the strengthening of the material and technical base of individual rural district hospitals in the Herson region. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAV to the Ministry of Education and Science on a catastrophic situation with the provision of the Sosnov Technical and Vocational School No. 8 of the District of Ravens. Taras Chornovil to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General on the investigation of illegal surveillance, interrogation, pressure on the ex-representative of the V.Saczuk Security Service and information on the state of the investigation into the possible poisoning of the candidate to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yashchenk. To the Head of the National Bank, Vladimir DEMOJIN is responsible for providing information on the execution of the national currency and the organization of its circulation. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Head of the State Tax Administration for the Disengagement of a Light Car to the Teterian Children’s Home of the Zitomir Region. Oleg BILORUS to the Head of the State Property Fund on the legality of the sale of the Mikolai Agricultural Plant. John YVANCHO to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities on the situation that resulted in the provision of drinking water to residents of the town of Zacarpathia. ALEXANDRA CRONOVOLENKA to the Head of the Herson State Administration on the facts of abuse and improper public policy in the area of health care. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Head of the Government of the Open Shareholder Society “The State Saving Bank of Ukraine” regarding the payment of the contribution to the inhabitants of Winnica. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Head of Montenegro’s District State Administration on the situation surrounding the reform of the medical sector in the city of Priluka, Montenegro. Alexander GOLUBA to the Chief of Staff of the Pension Fund on the misconduct of employees of the Department of the Pension Fund of the town of Gluhova Sumsk district. Stepan the Cloud to the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Offence of Criminal Matters in relation to the Deputy State Duma of the Russian Federation, Victor Alksnys, and the announcement of him as a non-grat person. MIKOLI NOČENKA to the Head of the Suma District State Administration, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the completion of the gasification of the boiler house, a boarding house for the elderly of the town of Krolevec, Sumska District. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the violation of human rights and freedoms while detaining the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnik and changing his precautionary approach to a personal message. [[ISAIAH, SKIN, and others.]] Group of National Deputies to the Head of the High Council of Justice, the Head of the Council of Judges, the Head of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges on the examination of the facts of gross violation of the oath, the rules of procedural and substantive law of the Judge of the Righteous Local Court of Dublin. [[CARMASINE, WAR, DELIVERY]] Anatholic of RACHANS to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the failure to implement the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 6 September 2003 “For the approval of the State Development Programme of the All-U.S. Children's Court of Eupatoria” on the construction of an inter-regional anti-tuberculosis dispenser. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Kyiv City Head about the banditry of the patriarchy of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and the further rental of the premises. JURY OF THE ORBS to the General Health and Medical Administration of the Kyiv City State Administration to address the issue of the relocation of infectious compartments and the Department of Infectious Diseases of the National Medical University of the name of the Academy of the Mantis. Vassila BARTKIVA to the district attorney in Suma for violations of the competition to replace vacancies in the suite of the City Council. Vladimir WOJŠA to the President of Ukraine on the persecution of the head of the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukrainiana Mikhail Raznikovic. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:36:06]] For-151 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:36:28]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes in the order of reimbursement of VAT. Ally ALEKSANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister on the removal from the statutory fund of the State Shareholder Society of the Ukradivli Building Company, located at Kharkiv City, Bakunin Street 4. Mikhaila RODIONOVA to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the construction of a children’s sports town in Troistina on Majakowski’s Avenue. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Minister for Environmental Protection, the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Kiev City State Administration for Animal Abuse in Kiev, and the solution of the problem of homeless animals with humane means. Sergia CHELNOKOVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting subsidies from the State Budget to the local budgets of the Kyiv region to compensate for the costs of transporting the benefits categories of citizens. Anatholic to the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the problems of the implementation of the right of war veterans and the work of receiving a pension for special merit before the Fatherland. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikli Tomenka on the payment of work and on the calculation of the work of the managers of the rural clubs. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal subordination of leased Sevastopol objects by the Russian commanders of the Black Sea fleet and the illegal stay of all navigational assets in the hands of the Black Sea fleet commanders. Mr. Jaroslav KENDZOR to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the involvement of the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, in the internal affairs of Ukraine. JURY OF THE ORBS to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of relics of the world's first Museum of Bread, the center of the Bread, the genetic bank, the center of the Good Walking Planet. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for gross violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, political pressure and forcible writing of applications for dismissal from the work of employees of the Goshtshan Rajadrian government by the newly appointed head of the Goshtshan Reich administration of the province of Rilah Valerija Rostislavovic. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the political persecution and gross violation of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine by the newly appointed head of the Sarnin Reich administration, Bagney Vasil Semenović, who unjustifiably compels 15 directors of the general educational institutions of the Rhine region to write applications for release. Vassila ADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for increasing the fight against the tuberculosis epidemic. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the minister of the interior of criminal cases and to conduct a service investigation aimed at identifying links between the Ministry’s employees and those who committed crimes. Leonida Vernigori to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the release of a special bus to transport disabled athletes to Poltava. Thus, honourable national deputies, 131 MPs have been asked. Let's move on to now. Andrew School, please, about the request. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to ask you again to ask about those who suffered after March 9. People spent two years in prison. I'd just like to ask the President how appropriate that was back then, during the previous regime? Then, of course, I could not turn to the Kuchma that I had planted. So I would like the present authorities to give the answer - was the prison correctly named or not? And I'm surprised the factions didn't vote so easily for it. The Socialist faction didn't vote in full, half of "Our Ukraine" didn't vote for it. I realize that all of you do not care about the fate of those boys who were in prison and who are now unable to adapt properly to the present life. But at least in front of your voters, show formal concern by clicking on the buttons. I realize that there is a problem with conscience, but at least demonstrate with honor its absence. Please put it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let me put it this way, I'm going to put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, no objection to re-voting? I am putting to the vote the request of the Ukrainian National Deputy to the President of Ukraine for violations committed during the trial of the March 9th case and its hearing in a court of law. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:41:57]] For 212 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:42:18]] For 226 Request supported. Shufrich, please, microphone. I mean, the decision is made, sorry, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u4	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! A request was made to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the famous director Rezniković. I am convinced that if it were not for the theater of the Russian drama, this question would not have been taken away. Let's not let the famous actor be pushed down and destroyed today. I'm sure if that happens, we'll witness the beginning of the Ukrainian drama. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! One minute! Request by Vladimir Wojs to the President of Ukraine for the persecution of the head of the Russian National Academy Theatre. The forests of Ukraine by Mikhail Reznikovich. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:43:56]] For 280 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:44:18]] For 290 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 5, Communists - 56, "Ukraine" - 49, People's Party - 22, SPU - 24, Block Timoshenko - 18, Ukrainian People's Party - 3, SDPU - 22, "Democratic Ukraine" - 20, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 9, "Democratic Initiatives" - 9, "Soyuz" - 13, "Prefactions" - 21. Microphone for John Boko's replica, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, there was a parliamentary request by Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich in connection with the closure of a criminal case against him. He was named a member of the political party of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I want to officially inform you that there is no such body as the political office of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. But that's not even the point: Fisherman Alexander Volodymyrovich is not a member of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This has already been clarified. We're officially reporting this, and we're looking at charges like slander on our party. This question, as we know, was filed by one of the leaders of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, and we understand that this is already, as they say, pre-election strikes. [[united]] I'm telling you, it's slander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, calmly, the name wasn't called, you don't have to. They made it clear that there is no such person. Please don't abuse me. Let's move on to the performances. On the board is the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine. Vernigore's handing out Grzesev's right to speak, so this is where he prepares Grzezhev. Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u8	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! In recent times, there has been considerable speculation about the use of Ukrainian. This is evidenced by dozens of draft laws on this issue, which are registered in the Supreme Council, which conflict with the Constitution, which are designed to actually introduce bilingualism. It was possible to refer these facts to political speculation, for soon the elections. Speculations about the language issue, which is nothing more than a black pear, if not for the creative approach of individual newly appointed officials to applying the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to ask how long this will be among the civil servants and to thrive on this language limit, this language-based scoundrel. Ukraine's national movement is convinced that in the current demeaning state of state language in the 14th year of Independence, the so-called creative approach of officials to the implementation of legislation will lead to the removal of Ukrainian language from all spheres of activity in a large part of the state's territory, where they have been the object of the ban and direct extermination for centuries. It is worth reminding us that there are no problems in Ukraine with the functioning of the languages of national minorities. A sufficiently normative base has been created. National institutions of culture, schools and classes work, newspapers and magazines are published, books are produced, radio and television are spoken in volumes that often exceed the need for the number of ethnicists. In a proportional way, the possibilities offered by Ukrainian diaspora are far superior to those offered in virtually all countries. Each state is primarily concerned about national language, which is the basis of national spirituality and culture, the main consolidating factor of the democratic state, the guarantee of the existence of a political nation as such, and therefore, regrettably, it has to be recalled that the conditions and instruments of rebirth of Ukrainian language in the entire range of regions have led to efforts to initiate national-territorial formations, acts of secession, measures of anti-State action, which have already been considered by law enforcement authorities. The National Movement of Ukraine draws the attention of the President and the Government of Ukraine to the need to take into account the political content of the language issue, to prevent the mechanical approval of the situation that has been going on for centuries, and to knowingly be planted by the oppressors of Ukraine of all species and species. The National Movement of Ukraine, as an expression of the national idea, is essentially in the interest of the Ukrainian language -- the most precious treasure of our people, the construction of a consolidated social body. Without a single national language, we do not see the future Ukrainian state.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u9	Please, Grzezhev, the Socialist faction. Get ready for Mhitarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Recently, the Socialist Party of Ukraine has been reprimanded by the lack of consistency in its actions, the change in the ideas of social justice, and the loss of liberal political attitudes. We state that such accusations are groundless, are beneficial to our political opponents and are already part of a less pure electoral campaign. This is because the Socialist Party of Ukraine at this stage is finding greater and greater recognition in society, not because it is, but because it is taking a principled and effective position, both inside and outside Parliament. A clean conscience party can look into the eyes of our destitute people. It is in many ways that socialists and our leader, Frost, have adopted the Constitution that we live by and that guarantees the social protection of citizens. This is a fact and a fact of historical importance. Another point is that these provisions of the Constitution are not being fulfilled and are not being fulfilled, especially by the structures that criticise us. In many ways, thanks to the Socialist Party and its leader, the Constitution has been amended with regard to political reform. It is also a fact and a fact of historical importance. It is in many ways that our party and its leader, Moroz, have changed the ruling regime in Ukraine and given people the hope of improving their lives. It is also a fact of historical significance. There are other examples of the effectiveness of the work of the Socialist Party in protecting the interests and rights of our citizens. We have always advocated, and we will always insist on, our programme policies and objectives. We state that any action by any political force, as well as by the Government, does not conform to our programme, will not be supported. Moreover, we will strongly oppose such actions, no matter what political situation, the interests of the people for us will be the main argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u11	Please, Mhitarian, the Democratic Ukraine Group. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u12	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues. On 24 April, all civilized humanity will bow its heads to the tragic date of its history. Just 90 years ago, more than 1.5 million Armenians were destroyed in the Ottoman Empire. It was the indigenous people of the millennium who had been killed for their national affiliations. The massacre organized and carried out by the Turkish Government in 1915 was the first crime against humanity, genocide, in history. Scary in fact, immodest in scale, contrary to all morals and law. This year, two critical dates have coincided in the history of mankind. This is the 60th anniversary of the victory over fascism in the Great Homeland War and the 90th anniversary of the genocide of the Armenian people. I would like to emphasize that, as early as August 22, 1939, Adolf Hitler, in his attempt to carry out the genocide of the Jewish people, cynically stated to his intercessors: "In the end, who remembers the Armenian massacre?" Obviously, if the Armenian genocide had been assessed in a timely manner by the influential nations of the world, the tragedy of the Jewish Holocaust could have been prevented. But this has not yet happened. For the Armenian genocide, there was still no Nurnberg. Therefore, today, in the wake of the sad anniversary, the Armenian organization around the world is making another attempt to destroy the wall of silence and forgetfulness, and we are talking not only about the tragedy that has struck our generations of fathers and grandfathers, but about the first grave crime of the twentieth century that has gone unpunished. In 1987, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the political solution to the Armenian issue. In which he indicated that developments within the territory of the Ottoman Empire meant genocide. As Pope Roman John Paul II said: “The genocide of Armenians has become a prelude to future horrors: two world wars and countless regional conflicts.” The process of recognition has been accelerated and the Armenian genocide has been confirmed more precisely. Official statements were adopted by the parliaments of France, Greece, Russia, Italy, Switzerland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Lebanon, Uruguay, Cyprus, Argentina, Belgium, Slovakia, Canada, the legislature of 37 States of America and other countries. Dear colleagues, it may be time for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a resolution condemning it. The facts of the genocide of Armenians, a nation that has stood shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian people for centuries and in labour and fighting. The pain of losing, the memory of the dead lives in the heart of every Armenian wherever he lives. Therefore, the Armenian diaspora always advocates peace and stability in those States where it is destined to live and work. And the foundation of this stability. democratically elected. The authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u13	Please, Alexander Masenko, prepare Bronnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u14	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, distinguished voters, radio listeners. Tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens and many present in this room, who once held high party positions in the Soviet government, those who sit and write a lot about Lenin and the party, I want to remind you that today is the birthday of a great man, leader of the world proletariat Vladimir Illich Lenin. And I would just like to remind you that for the rest of my life, Vladimir Illich Lenin's entire work was designed to improve the lives of the disadvantaged people of Ukraine. And how sad to note that the 15th April session of the Poltava District Council, initiated by the head of the Socialist State Department of Bulba, which was discussed here, that the Socialists advocated the interests of the labour community, decided to increase the tariffs for heating, hot water, cold water and water supply. It's a real shame, but it's a violation of the law. Since the district council cannot make such a decision, it is the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers. But the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't solve this issue just because everything in our country is already privatized. And unless we were able to solve this issue by letting residential utilities go at the price of the population. The same gas or even the elimination of VAT payments to residential enterprises. And so we would not have solved this issue at the expense of the disadvantaged people. Yet, today’s authorities do not solve this issue. We all remember when the newly appointed Prime Minister in this room assured everyone that about three thousand enterprises would be reviewed the legality of their privatisation by now -- no matter how long -- no business had been disturbed, and it had not been returned to state property. Yesterday, the court ruled that both the Croatstal was legally privatized, so all those promises, all those assurances that were expressed by both the Prime Minister and the President, have no basis. So to all the Poles, to all the Ukrainians, I stress once again, open your eyes and see what our promises were, and what a tragedy we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u15	Vladimir Bronnikov instead of Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u16	Statement of the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” on the persecution of dissidents in Ukraine. The events that have taken place in Ukraine since the arrival of the new authority are forcing us to determine our attitude towards it. The principles of transparency, frankness, honesty, openness declared during the elections seemed to be a turning point under which populism and revolutionary desirability were concealed. The basis of practical activities is the seizure of power, the collection of invoices with opponents, the pursuit of personal enrichment. The promise to improve the lives of ordinary Ukrainians who were generously handed over to Maidan is forgotten. The country has begun the persecution of dissidents, the pressure on freedom of speech, ideological unity, and the principle that whoever is not with us is against us. The “Regions” faction states that pressure and persecution not only continue, but also take on threatening amounts. Svetlan Gudkov of Starobelsk died following another call to the prosecutor's office for questioning, who worked in the elections that took place in the district commission. And there are, unfortunately, more and more of these fresh examples. It is also the arrest of the President of the Donetsk District Council and the abolition of the election results of the three-year period of the Odessa City Head. Over the past three months, Ukrainian citizens have submitted only more than 150,000 complaints of violations of their rights to the President. That's actually one and a half thousand complaints a day. And this fact had to be confirmed by the President at his meeting with the Human Rights Commissioner Nina Karpachova on 19 April, who said that something might be going on in the country. In such a situation, we will not be able to remain foreign observers, we once again strongly protest the harassment of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the rights of owners and entrepreneurs, the rights of all whose constitutional rights are violated. We demand that the authorities cease to prosecute the dissidents, stop bringing criminal proceedings to order, and stop exerting pressure on those citizens who have an opinion. At the same time, we call on the authorities to address ultimately the pressing problems of increasing employment, social and legal protection and human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u17	Yes, Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. And please, Vladimir Puzakov instead of Mikhail Rodionov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u18	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština As it has already been said today, on April 24, the Armenian people around the world are celebrating the tragic date of the 90th anniversary of the genocide. The destruction of 1 million and 500,000 Armenians has led to the extermination of the historic homeland, where one of the oldest civilizations has been created over the centuries. Nearly 800,000 refugees found themselves in the diaspora. It was the first genocide in human history. We Communists believe that Ukraine must take steps towards the official recognition of Armenian genocide in order to demonstrate that the tragic lessons of history have been learned from us, that we will never allow such tragedies to happen again in our country. And also, Reverend Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I am approached as a national deputy by appeals from residents of the area who are concerned about the news of the disbandment of the Kirovograd region. This information has aroused negative emotions, protests, and, in some cases, they have been intimidated by the fact that the city’s citizens have had a sad experience in these matters. In Khrushchev’s time, Ajamsky, Wieliowski, Witzezowski, Novozazki, was eliminated in the area. Highland, Peschenobridski, Rivnjanski, Teshkovsky, Hmelovsky, and the Redstone regions. Since then, people have apparently found out what enormous destructive force those voluntary decisions have made, not only in the economy, but in the social sphere, but also in the souls of the people. You can't go through once in bloom without tears, and now you've got the poor, the muddy, the usual talking, the ex-district centers. The Shirovogrodites proudly proud of their Order of Lenin area, the area of the creators of heavy labor victories and the flourishing of self-sustaining folk talents, and do not want to see them anywhere in their backyards without wings and sails sliding into the abyss. So, Reverend Vladimir Mihajlovich, on behalf of my countrymen, I ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to make sure that from the high court of the Supreme Council, comprehensive information is made on this issue that would calm the people of the city. My address is to be considered as a parliamentary request to the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u19	Alexander Stoyan refers the right to speak to Sulkovsky. Pavlov Sulkovski, faction of "Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, distinguished voters, representatives of the media! The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" expresses deep concern about the situation in Ukraine, particularly in the Plain region in the post-election period. I have to say as a member of the Equality Chamber that, with the arrival of a new power in Ukraine, the newly appointed head of the Basil Red government is getting worse, the human rights situation is getting worse, the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are being gravely violated, and the situation in the economy and agriculture is deteriorating. Today, people are virtually defenseless from the insolence of the masters. A list of those who do not set up new officials has been prepared, and the current district management is widely implementing reporting practices. What's happening today at the Plain is nothing more than chaos. Political persecution and misappropriation, the collection of personal accounts. In our memory, there have not been such massive discharges from the authorities, institutions, and organizations with political motives. The pressure of people to write claims of voluntary dismissal is used to organize discharges from the positions of heads of educational institutions, teachers, doctors who did not support Victor Yashchenk during the presidential race. In doing so, the new authorities usually release professionals, specialists, try to seize all, without exception, positions, divide the people into ours and yours, appoint their own, with gross violations of current legislation and without adequate education. Although President Viktor Yushchenko promised the people of Ukraine that they would not be able to free civil servants, because they cost the state very dearly, and the dismissal because of fear of the new government -- they don't even accept employment in other organizations. Pressure is also exerted on local authorities. Efforts are being made to relieve the people of their legally elected heads of city, village, and rural councils, as was the case in the Ostrisk, Volodymyrecki, Demidiv district councils in the city of Rivne, and other parts of the region. The prevention of opposition, the establishment of illegal formations and the use of illustrations of citizens, and the interference with the work of law enforcement agencies have continued. The facts that characterize our present. Representatives of the new government allow hostile statements to be made to the address of individual religious communities, thus exacerbating the interfaith situation. Such actions run counter to the President’s earlier desire to consolidate Ukraine. Such actions by officials of the new executive branch forced the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create a parliamentary interim commission of inquiry into violations of the rights and freedoms of citizens. This address please be sent to Victor Andrievich Yushchenka. Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u21	Mikhailo Gladys, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Prepare Matthew's Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! My performance is going to be conditional on two parts. The first is my position and my colleagues in the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. And the second part is a statement from a group of deputies who go into different factions. So, first term. In recent years, the economic and social situation in the countryside has become too difficult. Of particular concern and concern are the degradation of our most powerful treasure, the human capital of the village. The agrarian sector is constantly plagued by various crises: energy, grain, and food. Recently, the meat market has become a barometer of social tension. This is what some are already trying to make political dividends for future elections, pretending to be consistent advocates of peasants, while at the same time resisting the successive actions of a government that cares for people no less than its opponents. The same is true of domestic producers and domestic consumers. Moreover, not today’s government is responsible for a sharp decline in the resource of meat — pork and beef. Therefore, the situation today needs to be corrected. The very short - term agricultural policy of recent years has led to the loss of opportunities for domestic farmers to increase livestock. The reason everyone knows is the smuggling of goods, or meat, and the low prices are purchaseable. There is not enough meat on farms today, so even if we place an iron fence on every border, it will not be added. Thus, the government, as a first step, offered to organize import - duty rates for meat specifically without deamping its own producer, and this was only the beginning of the stabilisation of the meat market. Sadly, not everyone liked the government’s actions. This was vividly illustrated by yesterday’s vote on Bill 7181. It is now clear to whom the economy, including the agrarian sector, would benefit from continuing to develop in principle: a step forward, two steps back. But it's not just hopeless, it's also devastating, for everyone: for peasants, for the state, and for society. What's more, it's just political closeness. After all, while Ukraine’s food security may be on the verge of bankruptcy. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko is very upset by the similar behavior of those who are familiar with the formula: The worse it is, the better is the lifesaving political circle. And now I'm going to go to the second part of my speech. 37 national deputies with the aim of actively contributing to the preparation and adoption of such legislative acts as would serve the construction and development of agricultural production, strengthening social, educational, national traditions and spiritual principles in the village have created an interfractional "Ukrainian Village" constituency.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u23	Valentin Grigorovich Matthews, faction. And they're transferring the right to Nosenko's speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u24	Please pass the word Nosenko Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u25	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to make a statement about the loud events that have taken place recently in the town of Nizheni Chernigiv district. After seven years in the city as chief of the railway station, he was then a member of the National City Council from 1998 to 2002. And the depth and essence of the ancient conflict that caused these events is well - known. So the essence of this conflict has no political basis, it's about fighting for its industries and business and financial interests, the business clans of Nizhina, supported by Chernigov and Kiev. And that opposition to the city's power that came out to the central square of the city is nothing more than a group of ninjas who are not satisfied with the actions of the city's head, and who are fooled by the political orange slogans of young people, driven and directed there by the representatives of these clans. By the way. Some 1,500 people, who make up about 2% of the inhabitants of Nizhina, arrived at the walls of Vykonkam. A large part came to support the city’s head. It is shameful and shameful to accept the use of some of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s deputies in these dirty divisions. My natives say of this phenomenon: "The Kiev Lions and the Rudeks have come to us and have drunk themselves to the will, have seen the Chinese among themselves, and have gone their own way. And we have to live here, we have to find understanding, we have to build a new life. Let them pioneer in Kiev and not touch us, and we will deal with our problems on our own. It is clear to everyone that behind these national electorates are fearless heroes in the pitfalls of the Chinese events, dominated by factions, prime ministers and socialist ministers. The actions of the disgruntled Chinese who, under the leadership of the above - mentioned national deputies, stormed the walls of the Mesquikonkam with the further cracking of the doors of the state and the beating of the city’s head, were premeditated and agreed with the Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. And where there are leaders, there are one party of heroic national MPs. Where, then, if I may say, is democracy? Where are the loud slogans about the power of the law? Not the law of power for which so often and so loudly were spoken by today's authorities on the eve of the election of the President of Ukraine. Stop fooling the people of Ukraine with the pear companies, the orange rebels on the scene, bringing their vitality under the Kabmin walls by agreeing with his leadership, imitating the fierce fight against the oligarchs, and distracting society from solving the pressing problems. In conclusion, people are good, we live in a time when the folk saying, "Do not believe your ears, but believe your eyes." Don't you see that only the natural opposition to today's regime is the Communist Party of Ukraine with its colossal experience and high potential is able to bring our society out of the deep moral and economic crisis that we're in. No other ear - drawn opposition to the problem will decide how much the current authorities will not plough it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u26	Eugene Kirilchuk is transferring the right to speak to Terrena. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u27	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Guys, first the line. Indeed, April is generous on the day of the birth of the bloody chiefs. Yes, on April 20, Hitler was born, and on April 22, a cat of the Ukrainian people, who hated Ukraine fiercely, cut it open with matrical bayonets of Muravyov Ulyanov. [[Lenin]] But Lenin is so, you know, big that he's filled himself with all of April, that you can't even mention Hitler. But that's not the point. Our main friends are that we truly welcome the government’s efforts to normalize oil and meat prices. We welcome the steps taken by the IMF, the essence of which is that everyone must be equal before the law. We welcome the steps taken by the government to ensure that Ukraine enters as an equal among European societies and becomes a NATO member, which is a guarantee and independence, and guarantees the irreversibility of democratic transformations in Ukraine. And Parliament would have to be a reliable partner of the government. Sadly, this is not always the norm in our activities. Rather than enacting laws that were essential to society, there was a permanent blockade last week, which was the essence of pressing the court. And I'd like to ask a colleague from the former parliamentary so-called kushmian pseudo-equity, dear friends, in your own time you've proposed a bill on the so-called parliamentary police, why don't you suggest it now? But last night's parliamentary meeting was a disgrace. We didn't adopt the Customs Tariffs Act, the Change Act. But having broken the agenda for the session, the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, unfortunately, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, you were not there at all, even if your last name was not mentioned, giving the floor to the representatives of the Communist faction, and a decree was made to refer the deputies of the local councils to the so-called name of cities and streets is simply shameful. That is, let Donetsk become Stalino again, Lugansk - Voroshilovgrad, so that we have the streets of Beria or Vishinski again. This decision does not honor our Parliament, and it will never be implemented in places because it is pointless. And secondly, this ruling has a very negative impact on the authority of the Supreme Council. And rightly, yesterday our colleague, Deputy Carmazin, noticed that some of the deputies did not even know what he was voting for. True, our faction knew what it was about. But, dear friends, she didn't vote in favour of this sad decision, but she couldn't give an answer, to explain what it was about, because it only takes three minutes. Vladimir Mikhailovich, just three minutes. But the "Council" system is so designed that the first ones are recorded on the question of the great factions, which is that our faction in particular couldn't even ask questions. Therefore, it is necessary that the answer should not be three minutes, but seven minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, time is up. Time's up. There's nothing I can do. Time's up, what I can do. Time's up. Replica, Ivan Stepanovich Plush, please microphone. And then the dissatisfaction with the answer to the MP's request, all the documents are properly drawn up, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies, my colleague, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, partly highlighted the events that took place in Ninja at a so-called rally that called for an end to kushmism. I was three weeks back in a session of the City Council of the Chinese, and unfortunately, these initiators, none of them were in the session. I fully share what Mikola Petrovich said. And I think, even though we're in different factions, our colleagues were yelling, "Behold, you'll be fine." Because today, our Home Secretary, we need to think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u30	The replica. Just a minute. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk’s reply, since the name in Teren was mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Speaking, the national deputy Taran accused me of violating the Rules yesterday, giving the Communist factions a word. I'm very sad and I'm very sorry that this is the question that we discussed yesterday, about those who gave us the opportunity to live, to learn, to sit in this session room, that you're politicizing it. That's the first one. The other one. No violations of the Rules were and could not be, because the authors of the rulings that we put to the vote were Communists and he was the national deputy Simonenko himself, and he had the full right to speak and argue. So, my dear fellow, you should be more principled and not go anywhere you can't go.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u32	Yes, because of the dissatisfaction of the answer. Dear colleagues, you don't have to be absurd. No, it didn't have a last name. Please, in view of the dissatisfaction with the answer and the fact that all necessary documents have been prepared, the word is given by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, in March 2005, I asked the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, Prosecutor-General of Piscoun, the head of the Turkish Security Service, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, to take immediate action to endanger Ukraine's national security and undermine the authority of the State as a result of the social destabilisation of the Lugansk region, take into account the interests of the elections and the organization of the Lugansk People's political parties during the personnel assignments of the public authorities, to give due assessment to the fact that candidates for leadership and designated persons are committed, their close links with representatives of the subjects of entrepreneurial activity. On that request, I received a formal letter dated 30 March 2005, signed by Deputy Attorney General Shokin. During this time, the Criminal Procedure Code has actually run out of time to even investigate a criminal case. But yes. In connection with this, I am informed that with the great amount of work and the impossibility of carrying out a check on the deadline set out in article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the deadline for examining the request has continued. I would like to explain to the officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine that no one gives them the right to change the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, which sets the deadlines for examining requests. I wish this vicious practice would stop. Similarly, I received an interim reply from Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Roman Immortal. He received no response at all from the head of the Turkish Security Service, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, despite the fact that almost a month and a half have passed since then. At the same time, I drew attention to what the voters of Lugansk see as a tendency to turn power in Lugansk into a kind of gang union that is holding back the principles of state-building proclaimed by President Yuschenk of Ukraine: democracy, transparency, orderliness and professionalism of the authorities and creating a dangerous social and political situation in the eastern region of Ukraine. Misdirected policy regarding district government officials is involved in the appointment of people who are being investigated in criminal matters. It's in the Preval region, it's in the Anthracite area, it's a criminal investigation, it's the Novopskow region, it's an investigation, and it's the area. In addition, the official is himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, statements by MPs and factions of national MPs have been completed. On the basis of the proposals, the requirements contained in the statements made by the national MPs, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate references to the central executive authorities and other state bodies. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council decided yesterday that we will today hear information from the head of the National Bank and the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the exchange policy of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance. This is the order of 10 minutes, questions, answers -- questions -- in 10 minutes, too. No warning? Please, Vladimir Semenović, head of the National Bank of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u35	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies, distinguished participants in the High Council! Today’s issue is of great importance, and we have surely been pleased to be invited here to present to you our vision of the events that have taken place and why it has been done. Dear national MPs, the exchange rate for Ukraine is extremely important and serious. Why? Because the economy of Ukraine is extremely open. I don't know where else in the world besides Ireland, I think, is the economy of such openness. I'd like to tell you why. We have exports and imports, for example, for 2004 accounted for 113 percent of GDP. On the one hand, it's good, and on the other hand, it's extremely alarming, because we have to be, extremely dependent on external markets, especially in exports, and markets, and why it's Asian, especially China, they're us. determine the price of exports. And so any deviation in economic demand will immediately affect us, in our production. Now, let's move on to the course. The economic foundations for strengthening the course have already matured in Ukraine, and they have not matured in this year, but for about two or three years now they have shown that our currency is extremely low and that it is already starting to work on the negative. negative, including all economic processes. Its underestimation of currency is estimated to be expressed in both 4 bracelets and 2 bracelets 60 and 50 copies, which was just below what. But it was the smallest, i.e. between 75 and 49 percent of our currency rate varies. I mean, it could be. Could have been a bracelet of 30 per dollar, and a bracelet of 2.60 per dollar. And it's the most optimal is 3.80 per dollar. But we realize that the question is that if, for example, we go to a strong fortification, it's going to be a folding of the money mass and it's going to have a negative effect. What are the economic factors that say, in principle, what needs to be done? strengthening our currency? First of all, these are extremely high export rates. We're nowhere. You see, 37 percent of exports in the last year and 12 percent of GDP in the previous year. There's no such ratio. There's a ratio between the rate of real GDP growth and world-wide exports of around 3-5 percent of the difference, in percentage points of the difference. We have, you see, it's multiple, even multiple times. This could be said to be estimated as positive that the export rate is high, and it could be said that the export sector. The business sector is at the heart of the development of our GDP. Unfortunately, that's not the case, because net exports, if taken, are only about 6 percent, even in the best year, about 6 percent of GDP. This means that the final major producer of our growth is the internal market. The following question. This is the existence of a serious price imbalance. Raise between export price and domestic export price. Pick up, for example, information on "Ukrainian Metal" and we'll see that the metals that we really need for machine building, in construction, in housing construction, their export prices are much lower than their domestic prices. This also helps because this distortion, which does not allow us to properly develop our domestic production and increases prices, so to speak, inflationary expectations. The baseless decline in the rate of the bracelet has become the main catalyst for rising domestic prices. This found its expression in that we started buying currency to fill the foreign exchange reserve at too high a price. And even more, let me tell you, we're hypertrophying emissions instead of productive emissions, because the supply of money from the central bank goes through the refinancing, so it goes into the manufacturing sector directly, it's a productive issue. And when it's taken and given, it's redeemed, it's creating excess liquidity of the banking system, but the main thing is that it's short term, that banks can't bind this liquidity, and they can't sell it on credit. So we're feeling this year that banks are at least three or four times more liquidity than the standards that are sufficient, are necessary for that, but they can't issue loans, they don't develop loans, and the loans remain expensive. A low rate has a negative impact on investment. What's the plan? We have import somewhere, for example, if you take it, last year 26% became imports, that's equipment. machines and new technologies. You know, by different estimates, not less than 50, than 50 or 60 percent of our production potential of the core funds, they're worn out and they need to be updated. And one of the sources of this update, of course, is the import of such high-production machines, equipment and new technologies. It's the same thing when you take an extra course, it's negative because you have a big, expensive price to pay for it. Now here's the question: in imports we have an extremely high weight of energy resources, it's a direct pricing factor. And so, of course, if it's just an overpriced, underrate exchange rate, it's a way to import energy resources, and it's going straight to price increases, inflation. These are the basic factors that tell us that we needed to strengthen the course. Now for the second question. The second part, so to speak, is this question. That's whether we did it, so to speak, under the blanket, whether we did it openly and so on. The fact that our course is too low and needs to be strengthened by you has proved to be the case at least three times. The first time we didn't approve here on December 17th, I was saying that those who made those arguments, although they were completely confirmed for the year, were even more cautious than when this was in December, there was no complete data. That's the first one. The second time the budget was reviewed, and the government told you that the budget was 5.1 years old. When I was speaking here on budget issues too, we were saying that we really are monetary policy and, including exchange rate policies, we're subordinating the issue of keeping inflation, the normative inflation that was approved, that was specifically acquittal to you when the budget was approved. And the discussion that we have some kind of conspiracy with the government or there to strengthen, I would just ask that I don't incriminate it because the National Bank doesn't work with government budgets or with any government budgets, but it works with the budget that you've approved. And we have to do it. So when we did these, we had a long conversation, at which level we could stop the fortification, we did the calculations. For example, if I take it, I apologize, Vladimir Mikhailovich, but this is a very serious question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u36	Please, please, you agreed to 10 minutes, come on. Five more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u37	Please, I'm almost done and I'm on my way. That's why we did the math. They've made calculations in a way that, for example, will have a 10% impact on the overall macroeconomic situation, like this in government positions, like this on business and how it's on the population. We have these calculations, we can present them to you and so on. It's about that. The main task of any of our economic transformations, and so on, is to increase the well-being of the population in Ukraine. So this shows that the population as a whole is going to be from this increase in the exchange rate of our national currency, it's just going to win. And there's even an indicator like that. Calm down, calm down, calm down. Only wins and even reduces unemployment. Well, that's it. You know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u38	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u39	Irwin Shaw said that only a few people can understand monetary policy, but unfortunately we meet these people every day on the street. That's the question. So I'm sorry, I'm asking you to help, and then I'm going to do the evaluation. That's what I wanted to tell you. We considered that strengthening the rate or increasing inflation against those norms that were set in the budget, that is, 9.8 percent. So let me get you the numbers. We now have the Wages Fund after this year is set at 120 billion, the Pension Fund, pensions at 61 billion. The savings of the population and the cash of the population are also 150 billion. There's 320-330 billion in total. That's the minimum. I don't count foreign currency. So an increase in inflation by one percent is going somewhere to waste the purchasing power of all categories, no less than five billion. If there's two, that's 10 billion. These are numbers they give you, you don't give them anywhere else. And so the question is, what did we do and, so to speak, let you know that this is going to go in that direction? Now why did they do it like that? I'm already saying that, first of all, there's a rate of 5.1 in the budget, which is five bracelets and 10 copies. But this course should have been applied immediately from January 2. Regrettably, since the budget was reviewed and only approved in March, we were lagging behind in the matter. And so in order to keep those indicators from falling, those budgetary indicators that we're going to say were set up and evaluated were at 5.1, we had to make this correction. And this went through one of the factors that we've so strengthened the course so to say in this ten-to-one-to-one. I'd like to see the fact. Look, this red, brown line is what the budget called for should go like this. So it actually turned out that until the budget was approved, we went completely different, on the second trajectory, and then we had to go with this fortification, and go 5.05 at the end of the year, if we're standing now, and then we don't go into the budget for another 1.1. One, one, one, one, one. And I'd like to draw a graph to show you the second graph. You'll see that there. That's the first reason, that's the first factor. And this is the second factor, look, it also shows how it should have gone. Now the next factor is no less a major factor, because we have shown in the economic programme, including foreign investors, that we're going to have a stronger course, and we're going to have a speculative so-called capital -- international funds, financial outpouring, and they're going to rush in here right now -- hot capital. I can tell you that according to our estimates, if we had a negative balance of these investments, so-called portfolios, in the first quarter of last year, about 500 million had already come. All the capital. So it's not going to the manufacturing, it's going to the industry again, it's going to the portfolio investment, it's going to the bond. And that means that if he's walking at 5:30 now, he's going to get out, and we have bonds -- a year and a half, and there's that, but he's going to be able to get out at any moment back, that means he's going to get a bonus, and that way we're going to have to have our gold stocks destroyed. So we're going to credit as we say that the more we have the dollar in the economy, the more we're lending the economy of the United States. An extremely important issue in connection with the strengthening of the course is the import and our internal manufacturer. We understand that, we understand that. But we know perfectly well that we have second, more effective possibilities, levers, so to speak, to protect our native producer. What is it? These are customs tariffs, excise duties and quotas and quotas. One minute! One minute! You can understand that excise duties and customs tariffs can be set to any group of goods. And here's another question that these incomes go right into the budget. They're not going anywhere. quotas. Quotas, even countries like the United States, are very much in use and so forth. Unfortunately, the government can't, you're choosing this right to approve the budget, and every time you do, you can't quickly solve it. I've taken Russia for your consideration, please, from Russia. Quotas for imports of meat into Russia from Ukraine and Belarus But it doesn't matter. Importantly, look who: "Rosselznadzor changed the rules on imports of meat from Belarus and from Ukraine, Rosselchodzor went to tighten those quotas." Do you see how it's handled quickly? It's not in Parliament that these issues are resolved, where, well, we're going to talk, we're going to waste time, we're going to lose time, we're going to lose time, we're going to talk. That's why I'd like to say. . It is said that strengthening the course is only for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u40	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u41	And you can have another line, as I have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u42	Well, the question's over. Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to address this opportunity to one of you people's deputies, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. Nestor Ivanovich, please, I understand that in connection with party membership. Atheist of my nature, but I confess to you, as before a holy father, a national deputy: I have neither my relatives nor any land in the wilderness of Water, do not speculate on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u44	Well, at the end of the day, let's, uh, let's make a line. Now the question will end and there will be a line. The questions will be recorded, followed by a replica. Well, in the end, when you're human. Well, you can't right now, he's on the stand. Please sign up for 10 minutes. Mikola Odinenik, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u45	Mikola Odanik, "Our Ukraine." Please pass the word to a colleague of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Thank you very much, Nicholas Odynik. Obviously, I'm going to raise one question that we're interested in with my colleague Odynik. Do they understand at the National Bank of Ukraine that, in fact, such decisions of the National Bank undermine all the external economic contracts that our long-term manufacturing companies have put in place, i.e. shipbuilding, aviation, everything, everything, everything, everything that contracts are made for? Do they understand at the National Bank that Ukraine’s export potential is declining in this regard? And I'd like to hear the answer: how much money has been printed during this time you've arrived, and you see what was in the government of Yanukovich, and what now? I'd like to hear the answer to that question. And the attitude towards the euro -- and I'd also like to ask you, why isn't it being touched, is there any subterfuge and conspiracies between bankers and oligarchs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to say that these contracts that you call export contracts, they usually consist of two types of currencies: the currency of the price and the currency of the payment. A currency of price is usually a dollar, yes, it's usually a dollar, a currency of payments -- that's what happens. Well, for example, in Europe, it would seem that Europeans should, because they have their euro, so to speak, advertise everywhere, they would seem to have to calculate the euro, but it is determined that the price currency is set in the euro and the payment currency is in the dollars. Because they're benefiting from this imbalance -- $1.3 per euro -- they're playing, and they're still getting extra revenue there. That's the first one. The second thing I wanted to say was yes. Well, if you do. So they're definitely going to get export and shipbuilding, and if they're on export, they're going to get the dollars that they predicted in the contracts. The point is, this is already going to be an inside load, so to speak, of a dollar, at which rate: 5. 30 or 5.10 is going to be. That's it. But once again, the profitability of export companies has been carefully considered and there is no concern. I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u49	I'd like that. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The lacquer questions are the concise answers. Mikola Nosenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u50	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u51	Vladimir Semenovich, let me run this place in Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u52	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to give it to a colleague of Alexandria's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u53	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u54	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Semenović, I am asking the question, not to get the information itself, but to let the people who are listening to us now or watching the broadcast understand the situation. From the point of view. Here's what you've said that what you're doing will lead to lower prices for us in Ukraine, and you're still concluding that people will certainly get more income and live better. I doubt that, and please explain the following. If a 100-dollar importer takes you to Kharkiv. will bring products to Ukraine before your events to get 560 bracelets for this product. You're giving him an opportunity to earn 510 today. You're sure he won't raise his internal prices to make up for it. The loss you want him to suffer. That's the first one. Regarding money regulation in Ukraine at all. All these issues must be linked. The purchasing power depends on the availability of product mass and the amount of money on the hands. What you're doing is if it doesn't lead to the profit of the speculators with the currency, because of course, I'm confident that the dollar will increase anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u55	Thank you. It's a performance. Please let's invest in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u56	I would like to say the following, if I were to say so, from the position of one enterprise, from the position of one person who has, for example, his savings only in the currency and so on, it could all be. But once again, we're a national institution, and so when they're done, they're done. All in all. In general, if I may say so! I'm telling you again, in general! For the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Let us present our vision to the head of government of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u58	And here's a question. You're absolutely right that we should have the money mass to build up the product mass. But the point is, as I said before, is that the release of money through the ransom is just currency, and it's reducing the possibility of the product opening up, because the export product is going abroad, but it's not going under this money that we're releasing. You'll understand. Do you understand that or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u59	Please, Vladimir Semenovich, answer the question. There's no discussion here, no answers to questions. They won't be able to ask another question. Please, very briefly. Answer the question about the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u60	About the show. If we're talking about emissions, we have a 10 billion dollar monetary base, a 20 June monetary base, we have 53. Up to 63, there were 10 billion emissions. Its base is exactly 8 billion 900 million -- it's an issue made to buy currency at an underpriced rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u61	Alexander Vasiliev, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u62	Vasilev, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please pass the word to Konovaluku Valeria Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u63	Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Semenovich! It's not the best day in Parliament, I feel it because you say things you don't believe in. That's my question. How much money has been printed? I want to clarify because you're appealing with different data. You know very well the conclusions of the Big Seven summit, the finance ministers, who are condemned by weak dollar politicians. This led to a decline in economics in the countries of the European Union. Please respond to the additional $3 billion that came into Ukraine and the currency intervention that took place in the first quarter? What is the role of the company? and the financial funds that belong to George Soros, which stimulates the decision of the National Bank of Ukraine today? And how do the basic principles of monetary policy, which the Supreme Council did not approve at all, respond? And you're going beyond what you're going to do. Even approved in the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u65	Thank you. I'm telling you once again, we've made the issue of 53 billion 760 million 200 thousand on April 20 -- 63 billion 414 million 200 thousand. 10 billion, I said they released the show. During this period, we bought currencies for 3 billion and 100 million. 3 billion 100 million. This issue went through, and also one minute, and you see that imbalance, right? Disbalance, but you're not just trying to get this factor to trigger inflation, but it's also there, which was previously the money mass released. Tom, we've done sterilization. What steps? We've released deposit certificates, about 4 billion more, and this, so to speak, has frozen the short term liquidity. In addition, we introduced mandatory reserves, which banks also hold daily for about 5 billion. So I told him, he asked me a question, I told him clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u66	Let me give you a very brief answer to the questions. Yes. A craftsman for Savic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u67	Vladimir Mystrishyn, People's Party faction, Head of State Debt. Vladimir Semenović, in general, in support of the position to review, I find that, in this case, the literacy position of the Government is precisely aimed at bringing us into line with our actual course. And that's exactly what this has to do with the weariness of our production funds, as you've been talking about. And including with the entrance to the WTO, so that we can still import technological equipment so that we can process production here and not literally export raw materials. But I do have questions for you. Please tell me, for that reason, it was so sudden to make this change, and was it not possible to make this transition smooth so that we didn't lose confidence in the internal financial system. One question. And the second. Why are we still insisting today that six billion borrows take place inside the country? As we see today, the bracelet has become a stronger currency than the dollar. Is it not possible for the Ministry of Finance to move to the external market today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u68	Thank you. I want to say again why we, I told you why we took such a step, we cut it. So we're going to go into the budget parameters. Because we're delayed entering. And we have to get into the budget parameters. We're practically in. One more and one more tenth, and we're in. This time. The second question is that of foreign investment. Yes, we have the ability of the Ministry of Finance to borrow now in the external market. But the Ministry of Finance also understands that if they enter five thirty at a time and come out of five zero five, they will receive this prize. Do you understand? This is going to be the baseless export of our national income.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u69	Instead of Hadzatsky, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u70	The honourable head of the National Bank, the Constitution states that the main task of the National Bank is the stability of the national currency. Who made the decision to revalue the national currency? Such a decision under the National Bank Act can only be taken by the Board of the National Bank. In accordance with the Cabinet decree on the system of monetary regulation and control, Kabmin must be ordered to do so. The relevant decision for the NBA border, established in 2005, is 5.27. Neither did the NBA’s government. The Ministry of Justice did not register such a decision. The government did not make such a decision. If this decision is made individually, who, as it were, will be responsible for such a decision. And next. The National Bank suffers 4 billion losses. Who will protect him from bankruptcy and who will compensate the citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u71	Thank you. I didn't listen last time. I'll start at the end. The National Bank Act states that the head is responsible for everything that happens at the National Bank. So think about it as my responsibility. And I don't. One minute, I'm serious, I'm serious. That's what you think. First of all, then. The second question. The Board of the National Bank is what these guys put in. There were. monetary policy, which was budgeted in 2004. In the budget, as we talked to you here and when the budget was being approved, I said from this rostrum that monetary policy would be reviewed. It is reviewed, it is presented to the Council of the National Bank, which will meet on April 29th, if you approve your part of the Council. Life has to go before it does, so decisions are made. In the Ministry of Justice, such decisions are not made because, I apologize, if we each make such decisions, we will not be able to implement operational regulation through macroeconomic processes and especially inflation. That's what I wanted to tell you. But it was, it was considered in connection with the budget, and the government approved the need for it, and I told you, I told you that after the government had sanctified it, which would be a strengthening of the course, it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u72	Vladimir Seminovich thank you. Time's up. Shufrich’s replica, as its name was mentioned. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u73	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable fellow countrymen, respected colleagues. Perhaps the Head of the National Bank forgot the order signed by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, number 391 of November 25, 2002, by which House 13 of Desert Water Sanatorium was transferred to Stelma for life. Considering that Mr. Stelmam is a virtuoso, and we've seen this right now on account of what he's doing with his bracelet, God forbid that he's wrong, because a mistake will have terrible consequences for all of us and the entire population of Ukraine. But I can't imagine how you can get into the lifetime use of a house without having a plot of land under it. Likely, it hangs in the air as well as the course of the bracelets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the Minister of Finance is invited to speak with the information. I'd like Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic to tell us immediately what course our budget was based on. [[One minute, dear fellows!]] I'm talking about budget changes. The Minister of Finance is asking for 15 minutes. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The question of exchange policy is not about government competence, but it's a very important issue for the economy, for the budget, and that's why it's worth the attention of both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the entire Ukrainian society. Trends in exchange - rate policy in recent years are an element that we must take to the analysis. I'm asking you to show me the picture. For the past four years, the dollar has been constantly dwindling in Ukraine. The dollar hasn't been falling for the first year. A particularly rapid fall in the dollar took place last year. In three and a half years, the dollar fell by nearly 25 percent in Ukraine. So the major dollar drop last year was 11.4 percent. Here's the next picture. How does this happen? So you see a dollar drop over the years. A slight increase in the dollar was only in 2002. How does this happen, especially last year? Please show the next picture. Last year, the dollar rate seemed stable -- 100 percent, 99.5 percent. That's what you see in points of exchange. But last year, inflation in Ukraine was 12.3 percent. This means that 100 dollars that a person sold a year ago -- 530 dollars -- and a year later, that's different amounts, because in a year, 530 dollars can buy much less products than a year ago, because prices have risen by 12.3. In other words, last year the real purchasing power of the dollar dropped by 11.4 percent. Even worse, considering the market segment that our manufacturers are working on. I ask you to show me the following material. Last year, the same exchange rate, almost unchanged, but economic wholesale prices rose by 24 percent. This means that the real dollar rate for Ukrainian producers has decreased by 20 percent in a year because if exporters sell products abroad at a stable price, they have no change in income, but as a result of the increase in wholesale prices, they have increased by 24 percent. This is equivalent because the dollar rate has dropped by 20 percent. How paradoxically this doesn't sound, but the reason for this situation is the policy course of recent years, the attempt to keep the dollar constant. Here's the next picture. At the same time, the last three years in Ukraine’s currency market have been a constant surplus of solid currency, or the volume of sales is much higher than those who want to buy it. In this connection, the National Bank of Ukraine purchases a solid currency. Take a look at the material presented. Over the past 2.5 years, the National Bank of Ukraine has purchased $8.2 billion in foreign exchange, and if it bought 2.5 billion in 2003, 2.6 billion in 2004, it bought more than it did in the past year. In addition, the total volume of foreign exchange purchases since the beginning of the year has been estimated. I'll ask you for the next material. It's almost $4 billion. We need to note that the National Bank of Ukraine, as a specific government body, has the only tool for the redemption of currency, is emissions, money emissions. You can approximate the amount that has been simulated in connection with the ransom of such a number of dollars. And that's why we have a rather unpleasant growth in the economy. [[Please use the next picture]] It relates exclusively to the need to buy out the chronic surplus. Look, in 2003, the growth in money in the economy is 46 and a half percent, 2004 is 32.4 percent. Three and a half months have passed — a three - and - a - half - month increase in money as a result of a steady surplus of nearly 14 percent. At this rate, Ukraine will increase its money base by 70 percent. In order to maintain inflation, 9.8 percent, as budgeted, has the right to increase the money base by just 34 percent. We often hear comments about the reason why inflation is caused by the so-called social budget. We want to show you the dynamics of social pay that is foreseen in the Budget Act this year. Twenty - five billion additional payments in pensions, wages, scholarships, and so forth have been distributed evenly over the course of the year since April. The small hill at the beginning of the year is linked to the fact that in April, May, June, we pay off the debt owed to Ukrainian pensioners in the first quarter of this year. This month, the government made additional social payments for 2.7 billion dollars — pensions, wages, child support. And the government, like the National Bank, has the opportunity to do the issue, because the government's only treasury account is in the National Bank of Ukraine. And that's why when the government cuts the bill, it's equivalent to the National Bank of Ukraine. But we would like to draw your attention to the dynamics of the government's treasury account at the National Bank of Ukraine. On April 1st, the government accounted for six and a half billion dollars, and on April 20, the government accounted for 8.3 billion dollars. That's right. [[Last date you see]] And that's on the condition that we fully paid for the higher social payout. In other words, the government did not make the issue because our account had grown, not decreased. Moreover, in agreement with the National Bank of Ukraine, you may have heard that the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine has removed money from circulation by 3.2 billion. That's right. What tool? We've placed 3.2 billion. The amount of the VAT bonds and all of that amount were sent to the National Bank of Ukraine by paying off the debts on a permanent basis. That's the total amount of pre-term debt repayment of 3.2 billion. That's right. This is the amount that the Ministry of Finance has removed from circulation. It's not just a tool to sterilize the excess of money, it's an operation by the Ministry of Finance that saved the citizens of Ukraine 328 million. That's right. Why? Because we've paid off debts, which are nearly 12 percent, and the last loan the Ministry of Finance made to the market at 5.8 percent. That is, we have doubled the cost of three billion in external debt. We often hear questions about the state of the budget, and how, for example, will the exchange rate affect budget implementation? I'm asking you to show us a situation that today is made up of budget revenues. That's 13 million. In this picture, you can see the revenue dynamics of the budget in almost four months. Blue background is January-April income last year. In January-April last year, we received $13.3 billion from the General Fund of the State Budget. That's right. So today, on last day, we got 19.5 billion. The bracelet is a common fund. That's 66 percent more than last year. You see. That according to that budget parameter that we approved with you, we were going to get 20.5 billion in four months. That's right. We have 19,5 for today. The seven banking days we go through with remodeling, with a good budget position. Where we have a position like the revenue of the State Tax Administration. The state tax administration is now almost at the execution level of the four-month plan. There are seven banking days left. She's got 203 million dollars left to go. And good progress made by the State Customs. The State Customs Service last day has a 55 percent revenue growth rate by last year. By doing so, you can see that January was ruined. In January, income was much lower than last year. Customs are now giving more than the actual plan. And until last year, that's 55 percent more. What happens to the course does not have a direct correlation to the revenue of the budget. Why? Remember, you were presented with material about a real course last year. When the real rate of inflation was 20 percent last year. What happened to Ukrainian exports? I'm asking you to show me 22 pictures. Last year, as a result of exchange rate policy, where the National Bank is constantly buying dollars, i.e. making emissions, and as a result of inflation, the dollar fell by 20 percent. Ukraine's exports rose by 39 percent last year, import by 26.7 percent. This year, if you remember, we put an increase in exports of 10.4 percent, imports of 17.8 percent. In January-February of this year, we have 13 percent export dynamics, better than planned; import is 14 percent, that is, the balance is better than budgeted. Moreover, the course does not have a direct correlation to the income of the budget. I'm asking you to show me a picture about import revenue, that's 12 pictures. Dear friends! Please check the data related to imports into Ukraine, and the second column relates to import tariffs or customs duties. [[First column of digits:]] The first month, in January, we had an 8% increase in imports, but we had a 4% decrease in customs revenue. Notice, imports increased by 24% in March to the previous year, while customs revenues rose by 88%. As a result of the program: "Contrabanda stop!"that has begun to work, we have no reason to say that we have shut down the smuggling, but much of the smuggling has disappeared. Budget revenues are growing much faster than imports. Now the customs revenue for April is 2.2 times higher than last April. Of course, part is related to the increase in imports, but the main part is not due to the increase in imports but rather to the overlap between the smuggling channels in the country. And a few last remarks. Today, Ukraine has found itself in a difficult situation, the National Bank of Ukraine including. Or keep the dollar's rate at 5.3, and every day, you're going to do a billion, 1.5 billion. Because there's no buyer for that dollar. In Ukraine, so fierce was the flow of a dollar that the National Bank was forced to make a 1.5 billion emission each day. What was the danger? We've done the calculations. At this rate of redemption of dollars, which means emissions, we were going to have more than a doubling of the money base instead of the planned increase of 34%. I’m even afraid to call the number of inflation that might arise in connection with it. So you can't have that kind of policy, I'll remind you again. In just 3.5 months, the National Bank was forced to buy almost $4 billion out of the market, whereas in the previous year, it bought only $2.5 billion in the entire year. So the situation by strengthening the bracelet is a real reflection of what it is. I also want to emphasize once again that last year a bracelet, or a dollar, fell by 11 percent, but this was in a wild barbaric way when the strengthening of the bracelet or the falling dollar rate was caused by inflation. And the country does not have the right to live in such a policy because it beats the economy, beats citizens, and no one in the country can manage inflation. So the fact that the bracelet is getting stronger is a legitimate consequence of what's happening in the market. A question arises about the pace of such strengthening. Here you can discuss the pace. But as an economist, I can understand the actions of the National Bank why? Because the National Bank is in a very difficult situation. Every day, buying $200 million to $300 million out of the market and making a billion-dollar issue, that would turn into a tremendous increase in inflation. So strengthening the bracelet is an inevitable process, it's an anti-inflation process, and it's also an answer to a question that was asked by Vladimir Semenovich about speculation. Course 5.3 was the reason for the speculation of non-resident banks, because everyone knew that the bracelet would get stronger. And by buying, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u76	Please turn on the microphone. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u77	By buying bonds, for example, by 6 to 7 percent, understanding the exchange rate difference, non-resident banks received 12 to 13 percent of the currency's income. So this operation strengthens the National Bank's bracelet against speculative operations. Therefore, the engraving process is necessary, and it must take place. And in my opinion, our current course is about 5.05, this is the course where the situation can now be maintained, this is the course for which the National Bank no longer has to do the issue. If I'm not mistaken, yesterday the National Bank bought just $18 million, which means it's already a balance rate where the National Bank doesn't have to do emissions and not do inflation. I think the National Bank has enough tools to keep the situation stable. And in the right actions, the exchange rate situation can be stabilized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, questions. Please sign up for questions. Ten minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Humenuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u79	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I'd like to hear your argument again, which prompted the need to change the national unit's course so rapidly to the dollar. As an economist, you realize that such shock experiments, they're not very positive for both the economy and they're not very positive for foreign investors, including. Please give your explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u80	Thank you. First of all, I want to answer the question that Vladimir Mikhailovich asked. In the course calculations, sorry, the budget was set at 5.1 bracelets. It's an orientation course. Why? Because it's important to us, both for the government and for society, that's important, not for the course itself, but for inflation. And the policy course has to be so that it doesn't make a lot of inflation. This is exactly the problem we had in the first few months. As far as course behavior is concerned. Of course, it would be possible to talk about different routes. But once again, I want to stress the critical situation that has taken place in recent months, in the last few weeks, when there were two hundred and three million dollars in the market every day that there was no buyer, so there was no one to buy them out. And the National Bank couldn't continue the ransom because it would do such a huge amount of emissions that would turn to society, to the economy, to citizens by a huge increase in inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u81	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u83	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u84	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. Viktor Mihajlovich, I understand from your report that you are one of the authors of what is currently being done in Ukraine in the financial field, including in cash. And so what I want to say is, interestingly, the journalists in the towers today said, "Pinzenic's arrival in finance and snowfall in April is an equally natural disaster." And we see it all today. And the second. My question is, what does this have to do with anything? You're saying 3.2 billion bracelets have been removed from circulation. But why didn't the government fund payments to women in the first quarter? [[Child benefit]] People didn't get into Harrick like that. A lot of voters are asking me this question. Why didn't you send a penny to our native farmer's allowance in the first quarter for meat products in particular? And the last thing I want to say. There's this saying: dry, my brother, theory, and the tree of life is green. What you're doing is what's causing the negative so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I'm going to disappoint you a little bit because you have a minister of finance, not the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. And it's not in the competence of the Ministry of Finance to govern exchange policy, monetary policy, because under the Constitution these powers are established under the National Bank of Ukraine. Second, dear friends, let's think about the budget situation. The budget we processed had a deficit of 33 billion. That's right. I'm going to remind you once again of the number that I've been giving you: the government's legacy budget, the new government, didn't even have the money to pay the pension even 285 dollars. So the situation was critical! The budget is approved and there is no pension. What was the government supposed to pay for? Now I'm going to inform you again. When you and I approved a new budget, all the social obligations, including 332 bracelets, minimum pension, retirement allowance, child support 8,500, and a minimum wage increase of up to 290 dollars, we all met. What's more, we informed you that when we didn't make the show because of the only treasury bill, we didn't. We didn't surprise the citizens of Ukraine, because by paying them an additional nearly three billion dollars, we released a larger amount through the bonding tool. And I want to inform you that these actions will be used by the Ministry of Finance in May, because in May we are going to make more social payments to people, and we have the resource, we guarantee payment to the citizens of Ukraine of all the norms that we have with you in the budget. But on the other hand, we're going to do the same operation -- the money-removal operation, part of the money, so our citizens don't expect a consumer market surprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u86	Vladimir MacKayenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u87	Please pass the word to Krugl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u88	Mikola Kruglov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u89	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, please answer three questions. First, just recently, starting that year, when we said that we had so much currency, this has to do with the fact that the National Bank doesn't know what to do with the currency, the question was that we had so much money coming together, that let's settle our external liabilities in a timely manner. Has this been discussed today when you say we have too much currency and the National Bank doesn't know what to do with it? That's the first one. Second, from your point of view as an economist: exporters who sold their, let's say, equipment and so on, got the currency, now they have to, by changing it, buy it, get smaller bracelets and in the background of raising tariffs and all that sort of thing, they're going to have more or less income tax at that exchange rate?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u90	Dear Mikolo Petrovich, when I said "a lot of currency," I meant not the National Bank of Ukraine, I meant the supply of currency. When it comes to the very size of the National Bank's currency reserves, it's actually the right thing to estimate, not in dollars, but in the import months, because it's the right position, because the purpose of the reserves is to ensure that our economy is provided with imported resources. If that's the case, it's a small supply. And I don't know if it's worth talking about paying off on a regular basis today. The question in another is that there's always so much more money to be offered than there are those who want to buy it. And if the National Bank is going to act as a ransom surplus here, then we're all going to reap the result of a sharp rise in producer prices and a sharp rise in consumer market prices. So I want to go back again to the seventh, it looks like a drawing. The seventh picture. Please help me show this picture. Excuse me, 12th. Mikola Petrovich, I ask you to take another look at the situation last year because it's beating exporters, it's beating exports. Why does it beat? [[Twelve, please. Sorry, sorry, fifth, sorry.]] I ask that you pay attention to the wrong situation that has taken place in previous years and that needs to be corrected because it is being hit by Ukrainian exports. If we keep the course and buy in excess dollars, our exporters in the market will always wait for the price to rise. Again, I've been paying attention to last year. The course is supposed to be stable: 5:30. But as a result of the fact that the exchange rate is held at the expense of the redemption of dollars or emissions, wholesale prices are rising. The wholesale prices have risen by 24 percent. What this means to the Ukrainian exporter is that he sold the product for 100 dollars, got 530 dollars from abroad, and in the Ukrainian market, he's looking at a 24-percent increase in raw materials prices. This is the wrong situation and the wrong policy. So it's about replacing the policy of falling dollars with inflation by naturally strengthening the exchange rate of the national currency.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u91	Sergey Ratushnyak, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Stelmak and Pinzenik, I address Stelmak first! I wanted to support the National Bank and explain that, for the first time in 14 years of independent Ukraine, we started to move to the core task of creating a consumer class. If the money mass is increasing -- I'm explaining it to the communists -- we're moving to a rapid increase in payability and population money, we want to be independent of energy -- we have to make a salary of 600 euros, a pension of 400 euros, and that's just because of the increase in money. What's the rape? From the overheating of the world's metal market, and now it's hit our exporters. We don't need to panic: the world's metallurgy works at two to three percent, we work at 60 percent. That's different. Honourable MPs, Communists, and SDPU. The point is that we accepted the budget and placed a heading of 5.11 in it. The entire neighborhood lived at 5: 30 a.m., and the National Bank corrected the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u93	Please. That wish was so. Vladimir Muhin, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u94	I ask you to give Joseph a word to Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u95	Joseph Winsky, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u96	Viennese, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Victor Mikhailovich, the prices went up twice as fast as you did in three months that year, and the bracelet is getting stronger. As you, as a famous economist, can explain such a phenomenon from an economic point of view. The other one. We have 60 percent of exports. It's a very large number for any state, especially us. If we strengthen the bracelet so sharply, there will certainly be an economic downturn in these areas. Have you calculated the consequences of this economic downturn in these exports to Ukraine? What will they be like? Where do we get to this year's economic growth? And the last. The figures on the budget give us an absolute sense of income, but why is it that the budget is not focused, for example, on the farm program?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u97	Dear Joseph Vicentiyovich, the first quarter of the government did not have a choice, with a deficit of 40 billion dollars of almost 33 billion dollars, except for the financing of first-hand expenses: social expenses, and so on. Now we're in a situation where the budget has changed, and we've changed the budget schedule, we've moved what we had at the end of the year, and we've started to fund more evenly. That doesn't mean we don't have problems because there are always problems with the budget. But we finance, including agrarian issues, agrarian programs. The other one. I want to take another look at Joseph Vicentiovich, and last year the dollar fell by 20 percent for Ukrainian exporters. [[Real dollar rate]] Exports from Ukraine grew by 39 percent last year. Sergey Ratushniak was talking about some things. We're in the process of analyzing some export markets. Where they go through offshore products, where they say there's one price on the border, and we know that the world price in markets is 100, 200 dollars higher, and there's no loss for these exporters. We just haven't gotten to them yet, but we will, because they have to declare the full price and pay the tax. We don't calculate the result of this exchange rate policy, so the budget is set at rate 5, 1, we're going to get the full amount of income if we keep tax stability, stability, and if we don't take the costs, the costs we don't have in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u98	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, time is up. Dear colleagues! We heard the information. In this regard, let me stress by referring to the relevant laws. According to the Ukrainian Budget Code, article 33 of the National Bank of Ukraine submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers a draft of the main principles of monetary policy for the next budget period. In accordance with article 9 of the National Bank Board's mandate, according to the General Government Economic Development Programme and the basic parameters for Ukraine's economic and social development, by September 15 the National Bank's Council develops the basic principles of monetary policy and introduces them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information. So I'd like to say, dear colleagues. We have received the relevant documents from the National Bank Board, which provides for a policy course of 5.35. Where the document was dated March 19, 2004. Then we got a second document, we got a 5.27-5.31 from September 13, 2004. After that, we received no document from the National Bank Board, the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! In this case, the Supreme Council is called a passive observer. Why? Because when the Law was drafted, it suggested that the National Bank Board would submit to the Supreme Council for approval the basic principles of monetary policy. And we probably need to take this gap into account and make appropriate changes to the laws. With the Supreme Council, which agrees to appoint the Head of the National Bank Authority, part of the composition of the Supervisory Board to have appropriate control and influence. This is the first and second, dear colleagues, and I would like to think, in line with the national economic development programme and the country's basic parameters for economic and social development. So far, despite the fact that the Supreme Council, I say this to the members of the Government, that the Supreme Council has written down in a decree that we should get from the Cabinet of Ministers a draft of the basic principles of economic and social development. I would like to remind you that this is a decree of the Supreme Council of February 4, 2005, which reads: "In a month, from the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' programme of activities to submit a draft of the State Economic and Social Development Programme to the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Instead, once we received a letter from the Prime Minister, which is literally called the days, we received a letter from the First Deputy Prime Minister, where he tells us that we do not need to accept the State Program and submit such a program only in 2006. If we call the Supreme Council and the Government to be responsible for each other, I would like to re-record that a corresponding document has been submitted to the Supreme Council within two weeks. Otherwise, we should consider the course of implementation of the decision and make the appropriate decision. Because the Supreme Council only needs them to contradict decisions that need to be made, but then let us work together. And also, I would like to ask that the government of the National Bank, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, provide appropriate, comprehensive information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on exchange policy. So that we can analyze it at the appropriate committee, and the Supreme Council could determine its position. The question is now closed. Dear colleagues, determination. This is information, first. Second, let the committee consider it, work on the proposals of other groups and factions, and we will accept it. I think that's the right approach. What is Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Well, that's the information. The committee needs to consider the draft ruling. This is an initiative of two deputies. Let's keep some order, dear fellows. The two factions call for a break or a declaration, this is the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the faction, as well as the faction of "Ukraine". [[We have important decisions to make, we can't take breaks.]] Please, for what you requested.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u99	It's a great pity, for the first question on this subject that I'm raising today, that since March 4, it's been ignored by the President of Ukraine. The written address of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made on the basis of a statement made by the Supreme Council, remained unwarranted. I'll remind you. Dear Victor Andryovich, in accordance with article 78 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Deputies cannot have another representative mandate or serve in the public service. According to article 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, heads of central local executives have no right to reconcile their service activities with other work, other than teaching, scientific. the composition of the governing body or the supervisory board of an enterprise with a view to obtaining profits. Instead, in the system of central and local authorities, there has been a situation in which the governing bodies in these bodies have the national deputies of Ukraine. The total status as of April 22, 2005 is 34. Yes, despite the fact that most of the assignments have been carried out by you, the co-sponsors remain the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine Poshenko, Minister of Education and Science of Nikolainko, Minister of Finance of Pinzenik, Minister of Health of Polishchuk, Minister of Economics, Mr. Terjehokin, Head of Regional Administrations of Volinska Bondar, Dnipropetrovsko-Ehanurov, Žitomierski-Jebrovski, Zacarpatski-Baloga, Zaporski-Artemenko, Ivano-Frankivsky-Tak, Kyivsky-Yoltak, Lvivski-Olinik, Odessko-Tsusko-Tsusko-Bulba, Ternoplish-Stoupilski-Stoupler-Tarzydnik, Head of Sevastopolski-Talovsky-Talovnik-Talovnik, Drustakrovnik-Ta. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine is the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution, we appeal to you regarding the removal of violations of the requirements of articles 78, 120 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities, the Secretary of the NPB, ministers, heads of government, heads of other state institutions. I ask you, Mr. President, to make a public statement on the issue of coexistence and double wages. People who violate the Constitution today propose the adoption of legislative acts. If you don't make a decision and publicly comment on this anti-constitutional problem, we leave the right to react appropriately in the House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u100	Motivated what, Nestor Ivanovich? Want to talk? Dear colleagues, you and I are now to consider in a reopened first reading a draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian customs tariff laws. Registration number 7181. Since we were yesterday, dear colleagues, since we discussed this issue with you yesterday, I suggest we do this. We'll give him three minutes to inform the minister of the economy, ask him three minutes of questions, and then we'll figure it out. Because yesterday you and I discussed this. Please. Please, Sergey Anatolyevich, three minutes. Please, Sergei, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, after yesterday's discussion on import tariffs, 1-24 groups came forward with final additions and proposals from legislators. I think Mr. Kalichuk will talk about the position of the faction of the National Party of Ukraine. There were also proposals to increase the rates of duty on palm cheese oil and coconut oil from Capri to five percent. There were also proposals for fish from the "Regions" faction, through raw fish that the government agreed to accept. In view of the fact that this is an entirely compatible project with all the subjects of the legislative process, the factions and committees have been reconciled for a month and a half. The government is asking to put it to a vote once again, in view of the fact that we are running out of fasting, that we are starting a holiday, that the level of consumption of the product product will increase dramatically so as not to allow deficits in the internal market, adopted by this bill as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Since Sergius Anatolyevich has saved us, let us take five minutes to ask the question. Colonies, factions of industrialists and entrepreneurs. Is there a Coloniari? None. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u103	Yes, please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to pass the word Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u105	Please, Mikola Petrovich Noschenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u106	Thank you. I want to say to the reporter, can you please tell me, and you can see us in the audience, the people's deputies? You only argue with committee work, with agrarians, but vote for us! Why were we not given these proposals with new, new clarifications? Please give us an opportunity to read this. Do you really count us out just for the people who push the buttons? Answer me, why didn't you give us the materials you're talking about in the rostrum today? Or at least show it on the screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u107	I tell you, Your Honor Mr. Noshchenko, yesterday the reporter Katerina Timofievna Vashchuk claimed this position. She told you all of these positions, by bets and by code. We don't have any more suggestions. And again, I remind you, Mr. Noshchenko, that from March 15th, the document went to parliament for work, the government to speed up the work, recalled the first version, and submitted as a harmonized version with the national MPs, committees and factions the second version that you received ten days ago. For us, more points were made and no suggestions were made. I mean, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u108	Please, Ratushni Mikhailo, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Minister! Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People’s Party, Yushchenka’s constituency I understand your logic, when you import 600 percent of the bribe, that because of free economic zones where smuggling can be imported and nothing paid, it gives you a great opportunity to abuse. But personally, why do you refuse quotas? Is that the norm adopted in Europe and the civilized world? Why is such a position of principle impelled by the government and you personally against it to be quotas? [[in paws or no paws]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ratchet. Let's first think about two questions: the first question is tariff policy, and the second question is non-tariff policy. Just when we're talking about non-tariff politics, there we're going to be discussing quotas, other non-tariff regulations, like veterinary, phytosanitary, hygiene and so on. With regard to quotas. Standards, right. With regard to quotas. To date, the experience of quota usage has shown that this is an excellent mechanism for the quota allocation of bribes. That's it. More than that, if there's any pay for quotas, there's a tax, because it's a fiscal payment, which is just called not a bribe, but a quota fee. So let's be honest: if we want to encourage the Ukrainian consumer and protect the Ukrainian manufacturer, the best way to do it is to have tariff policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u111	Please, Nosenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u112	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'd like to give it to my colleague Leschenko Volodymyr Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u113	Volodymyr Leschenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u114	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! The previous governments, where, indeed, they participated in the activities of these governments and the representatives of our country, who are now in the government, have led the agrarian sector to such a policy virtually to destruction. I'll give you a number: compared to 1990, the head of a large cattle fell 3.7 times, pigs three times, birds, sheep, and so forth. I support the previous question: we need to set quotas, as is done, let's say, in the same United States as the government is talking about. From the quota buyout. We could get some money to support our manufacturer. And then we could increase that head, increase the volume of meat.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u115	Okay. Well, the first part of your question isn't about our government, let's ask other governments. It's different. Once again, there's only one way that the quota doesn't play a tariff sign, that is, when it's given free. If it is paid, then there is an import tariff, an import duty in its economic nature. If it's free, you can, if you have the experience of the United States: in the United States, there's a quota distribution in the EU for some products on the principle: the first one came -- the first one got, free of charge. Now I'd like to ask you, why do you tempt the government to do things like this? Who do you think gets the first one if the first one comes. Let's pay, then it's an import duty, because in order to get the right to a car, you have to pay something: either an import duty or a quota fee. It's not economically different, except, unfortunately, some bribes, meaning things. But once again, let's move the discussion on quotas to a separate discussion, because now it's about tariff policy, not non-tariff policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u116	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking Sergey Vasilovich Burjak Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Last night, we took a rather detailed look at the transcript, which was from the above-mentioned question, examined in detail the situation regarding the non-acceptance of the House of Parliament of this bill, and concluded several conclusions that the bill was the result of multilateral consultations between government officials, deputies, producers, processors and consumers. First. So it's not just a government bill, it's a product of consultation. The second factor to be taken into account is that the new -- and I emphasize a new -- draft of the bill, although it's submitted by the government, but it's written by the MPs, or you, your esteemed colleagues. But the most important thing in today's situation is that our committee on finance and banking, as a professional committee, has been proposed and proposed to the Supreme Council to adopt Bill 7181 only on the basis and in the first reading to address the issues that we discussed with you here yesterday. Together with the government, we make a very careful commitment to consider suggestions for a second reading from all the subjects of the legislative initiative. I emphasize that. At the same time, I want to stop at the four moments that occurred yesterday in this room. First. By product group code 060310 "Flowers." Transfer the customs tariffs “from 1 June” to “from 1 April”. We agreed to that offer. I'm saying that for the transcript. The other one. Complete the list of groups of goods falling within the definition of code 0208908000 in other words, “and the skins of pigs and sausages and other prepared meat products” 30 percent, but not less than 600 euros per tonne. This seems to have been stopped by the National Deputy of Masters. Third. Predict the introduction of customs by 20 percent for the 10005 " Corn Seed" product group except for the code by which the zero bet is set. I think that's what Mikola Rudzkowski said. And the fourth. The seed of potatoes. Potatoes and all the vegetables remain at the current rate. Thank you for your attention. Please support us in our first reading, although we have little hope.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? We discussed it yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 14 minutes. Rattling. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u119	Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka's constituency. Dear colleague! Dear radio listeners! Why is this principled position, in fact, a large part of this hall and the Ukrainian People's Party, I think I get it for you. The issue of amendments to the Customs Code relates to agricultural production itself. No one seems to deny that our nation was and remains a large part of the agricultural state. And it's not just the Ukrainian manufacturer's protection, it's the protection of millions, millions of Ukrainian citizens -- our electorate. So here our position is principled and consistent. We agree with the Government that the customs tariff that existed prior to the existence of free economic zones, black holes, created on the one hand and as high interest rates on the imports of these goods, while, in fact, a large part of them were set up by certain financial and industrial groups, took place without payment of any customs tariffs. I'm glad the Minister, we're glad that the Minister of Economics agreed that the government's first offer was absolutely, allowed us to destroy our market, and today the Minister of Economics has agreed that oil and other positions should be protected. But I'd really like to go back to talking with the Minister of Economics. Sergei Anatoliyovich, I think you also know very well that the quota principle works in the United States and the European Union. And nobody says it's bribery, it's there. It probably exists to hold bribes and state-appropriates are institutions, prosecutors, interior ministries, security services. I don't think we need to confuse sin here with the righteous, if we see that in some position we lack produce, we're clearly conducting open, public tenders for that amount. Maybe the government isn't sure that these tenders will be open and again there will be bribery, as in the past government, so it's no longer a quota problem, but a government problem and a control over the phenomenon of corruption and bribery once and for all, disappearing from our society. I think with these approaches, we're really going to integrate fully into the world trade organization, on the other hand, like Poland, we're not going to allow ourselves to destroy Ukrainian agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u120	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Prepare Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've arranged a very good cure for our government, because if we had accepted those tariff reduction proposals from the beginning, we would have a completely open economic system for external influences, harmful external influences today. And we would put our national producer in a very difficult situation. That's why the Ukrainian People's Party has always stressed that we should discuss in very detail such government proposals that you should seek to reconcile the interests of the manufacturer, protect our economic system, and, I say, with the openness of our economy. And that's how our principle position allowed us to find some kind of middle ground when we accepted these proposals. That is why I believe that in the future, the Supreme Council should be able to discuss in great detail such complex proposals from our government. Now I want to draw your attention to the fact that let's actually create a whole system of protection for our economy. I already told you yesterday that members of our faction of the Ukrainian People's Party have submitted to the Supreme Council the Quota Act. And today, under our legislation, the government has the right to set import quotas, but today there is no mechanism, there is no procedure for how this thin mechanism should be used by the government. That is why this bill needs to be adopted and allowing the government to act quickly enough. We've been listening to the Head of the National Bank today, and he's been talking about this, that respectable friends, the government should act immediately on a negative nature, on such trends. So let us give the full range of resources for our government to act. But I can't, in principle, agree with the government in the part where it's all about fighting corruption. When he says, we should be afraid, because someone comes and buys a quota there, they'll bribe us. So catch the one who gives the bribe, catch the one who takes the bribe, and not that should be an argument in order not to apply the quotas today. If we learn not only tariff but also non-tariff methods of regulating our economy, we cannot survive in this competitive environment. And that's what our government needs to understand. So, honourable national MPs, we've already passed a good school in this direction. I offer you in the first reading to adopt this bill, perhaps even in general, and to prepare our government for serious dynamic work to protect the national producer and our own economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u122	George Manchulenko, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u123	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The question is extremely interesting and ambiguous. Or should the state itself play with those international trade rules that are now in place in the world. In particular, there are rules of the World Trade Organization. Of course we should, because we cannot live by our own rules in a globalized world. On the other hand, whether the State should protect its own market and its own producer. But of course, it must do so, and it must do so because no one will protect their own economy and their own goods if it does not do so to the State in the person of their own government and parliament who adopts the laws of Ukraine. And there should be an equivalent approach to walking to life under the rules of the world market and at the same time protecting individual segments of their own market by certain tariff or non-tariff regulations. The Minister of Economics said that we should talk separately about tariff regulation and non-tariff regulation. And in my opinion, and in the view of my colleagues in the Ukrainian People’s Party, such things are interconnected. Both tariff and non-tariff regulation are two sides of the same coin. And especially now it's an acute question when we're talking about speeding up the process of joining the World Trade Organization. There are things in our economy that are not produced or produced. We need to talk about this and we need to contribute to the flow of these things, if that's what we need in our market, right here to us. If the things that we produce and the products that we have, those manufacturers that produce them according to world standards, we have to protect them from the flow of cheaper or less quality products from other markets. We have to protect her. So I think there should be a combination of both tariff regulation and non-tariff regulation, i.e. both tariff policy and non-tariff policy. We also need to talk about a certain quota principle: how quotas will be implemented for one or the other products, the State has to establish such rules of the game so that there is no bribery and no corruption, and the law enforcement agencies would be watching that if someone were tempted to do such things to be severely punished. In that case, we will really play by international rules and protect our own manufacturer. I believe that in this situation we have to support the draft law and adopt it, if not in general, at least in the first reading we continue to talk about politics, including quota - related policies, because these are interconnected things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u124	Igor Shurma has the word, the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u125	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Today we're going to be looking at changing import duty rates for the entire range of agro-food products. Two valid questions arise in connection with such significant changes in imports of agricultural products. First, how will the adoption of the bill affect the revenue of the State budget? In the explanatory note to the bill, more is said mainly about the fact that many goods were smuggled, and the budget for this was lost. There's no denying the smuggling. Yet, the question remains. The budget is being lost, and would you like to know how much it is losing? The second question, in my view, is far more important. How will such a major change in tariff policy affect domestic farmers? First of all, this question concerns the real competitiveness of Ukrainian meat and poultry producers. There is no secret that the relatively low price of imported products is based to a large extent on the fact that producers of agricultural products in countries of origin, in particular in EU countries, are subject to positive conditions for production and export, including insurance and huge state financial support. So it is clear that questions arise, and are similar conditions created in Ukraine? And the answer to that question is no. The example of the last 30 years of Soviet power has shown quite vividly that imported products do not feed the people, they need to develop their own market for agriculture, and this is what it takes, starting with the creation of a full market for land. There will be no master on earth, there will be not enough food on the table. In my opinion, such fundamental changes in the country's food policy, as Kabmin has now proposed, can only be seen in the complex as one issue of food security in Ukraine. The latter relates directly to the issue of agricultural reform. We therefore propose to defer consideration of the issue of reducing import duties for agricultural production until the Cabinet of Ministers presents a balanced and balanced Programme for the Development and Reform of Agriculture and for the Protection of the Interests of the Domestic Farmer. Of course, this also applies to the protection of the interests of companies that are processing the product. I'm not going to ask you, Mr. Terjohin, when you're in office. You've become an evil violator of the Constitution. I want to ask you one thing: who will take political responsibility for all these things? Call the party. If that party is the President's honorary head, I think you've hidden certain facts from people. And if you want to make life funr and more interesting in our country, lower the dollar to 63 copies, as Stelma said: the cheaper the dollar, the richer we'll be, the better we'll live. Have a good one.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u126	Peter Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences! Of course, on the second day, when we consider this issue with special attention, we conclude that this is the biggest question, that it is a matter of national security and is of great importance to the future of our people. Once again, I would like to reiterate the political conclusion that we, the Communists, made yesterday in the statement: the bill is an attempt to bring the Supreme Council to legalize the payout with those who paid Yushchenko and the nationalist political forces in association with the Socialists for the election of the President and legalizing their business through such decision-making practices. Second. We are witnessing with you the legalization of clearly expressed Western policies to the detriment of and return, rejecting in general national policies and the protection of the interests of the national producer. This is a real threat to our people of Ukraine. The first threat is that we are with you producers, the largest producers of a range of products that we produce, process, saturated the internal market for food and, of course, for sales outside Ukraine. Above all, it would be necessary today not to lower customs tariffs, but, above all, to allocate funds to import technology, import equipment, create new jobs and, above all, zero rates today to import equipment to enhance our ability to process. Second. You and I are really gonna lose our processing. This is true of the same torment, the group, the sunflower, the fats, we will virtually lose the final material base that was created as a result of inter-colleague cooperation, and they will get the material base of the entire demand operation. A sector such as sugar, sugar beet cultivation and sugar production is destroyed. We are, of course, witnessing today that the bright future today in the country and the people of Ukraine is promised to build people with a very dark past. That's one conclusion. The second conclusion was that there was a powerful Power of Ukraine, and there was a great raspberries of thieves. And the third, the final. This once again confirms that the representatives of the liberal idea and those who represent the Chicago boys have returned to power. That is exactly what constitutes a real threat to the future of the people of Ukraine. And I don't think there's any way we can support such criminal projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Motive flinch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you. I would like to say on behalf of the faction of the People's Party that our working group has worked really well, and we agree with all the conclusions that Sergey Anatoliyovich made, and Sergey Vasilovich, but I would like for the protocol to say that 1005 "The Corn Seeds" should be 20 percent. 20 percent. In addition to parental forms. It's 10059000. And we also ask the seed code 0701 10 00 00 00 instead of the government's 2 percent bid to enter 20 percent. If the government agrees, we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u130	Wait! What are you in charge of? Sit here, you'll manage! Carmine microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u131	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, faction of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I noticed yesterday that we were not given these amendments. It forced me to approach the minister, approach the agrarian committee, find out which are now presented for first reading, and I was told that my grain offerings, including my meat offerings, were taken into account. I'd like to say, let's make the first reading of the law. Then we'll have time to make suggestions. That's the first one. And the second. I'm talking to Sergei Anatoliovich Teriochin. Sergey Anatoliyovich, let's still introduce, apart from tariff regulation, the quota of this agricultural product, because we are destined to live out of the village. I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u132	Hubsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u133	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! What's most important today is to break down smuggling and break corruption. Because we know very well that the shadow schemes are followed by food. And that makes the situation worse for the Ukrainian farmer. So today we need to give the peasants the opportunity to work in peace at last. Moreover, by voting in favour of this law, we will be able to develop our meat industry. The second question that I think would have to be asked was how, after the adoption of this law, to think about how in the budget for this year, in the fall, to set up large funds to grant a subsidy to meat producers. It's strictly a market mechanism. For every pound of meat, give 10 or 15 bucks to the people who grow this livestock. This will be the real support of our agricultural producer. That's why we have to support the village. And I propose today by our vote to say yes to Ukrainian agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u134	Please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u135	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko! I'm addressing you in public. At one time, I may have become inflamed and apologize for saying that I personally assorted you, and I apologize publicly. But I also publicly ask the socialists who, in principle, are now defending the interests of the peasants, in principle our minister does not support the reduction and destruction of the village and the reduction of customs rates, and he made a firm statement. The faction makes it so that we don't accept such changes to the customs tariff, well, not to mention us in this situation. In fact, there are differences in positions, but if we accept these changes, know one thing that Ukrainian agriculture will not be competitive, there will be a third cheaper Poland and Turkey, and we will lose our village and our producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u136	Nigga, please, that's all. After that, please have a Blackie microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, of course I update the customs tariff system. Especially those associated with basic foods. This is beyond doubt and needs to be supported in this regard by the government. What's wrong with me? My concern is that the Government creates favourable conditions for importers and does not create favourable conditions for exporters and favourable conditions for a domestic producer. And that's the problem. I think we can support the bill as a political one, but point out that the government has to work on these issues in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u138	Yes, please, Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin, one minute and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, some of the national MPs have been asked, some of the questions that you'll allow me to answer. First of all, the question of lowering the import rates for meat and sausage. I remind you that 91 percent of the meat was imported with zero VAT and duty. Today, it's 0.61, it's 0.6 for sausage, which is approximately 30% of the customs value, plus VAT 20 is 50%. Is this not a protection? The second question was the government’s position on the corn of parental varieties and on potatoes. We confirm that corn is zero, potatoes are 20. The question of e was that this bill seemed to be a threat to the production of sunflowers, fats and sugar. I'd like to remind you once again that according to the project that's being submitted, they don't change, for the protocol, they don't change the rate on these positions, please look. And finally, there was a question about which budget revenue could be added, only in the meat position. Ukraine’s government budget will receive $249.6 million per year in direct revenue in only one position instead of zero. So I repeat the government's proposal and the government's request to you to accept it in the first reading and in general as a law. Christmas is coming, Easter is coming, let's not make trouble in the consumer market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the customs tariff]] [[Registration number 7181]] [[13:14:27]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 83; Communists - 0; "Regions of Ukraine" - 0; People's Party - 20; Socialist - 0; Block of Timoshenko - 23; Ukrainian People's Party - 23; Social-Democratic Party - 17; "One Ukraine" - 19; "Democratic Ukraine" - 0; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 3; "Democratic Initiative" - 9; "Union" - 8; non-fractional - 10. [[united]] Dear fellows, don't shout in chorus, because I can't hear you. That's the first one. The other one. Whoever didn't make it, raise your hand, I'll see about that. There's not much to go on. It's all on the computer, so don't let yourself down. Third. Dear colleagues, we're supposed to have a different question at 1:00. Let's see if we can get to the Vulnerable? "Crazy." Yes, please sign up for three minutes with a motive, and then let's move on to the Miscellaneous. Yes, please, for the time being, three minutes. Tomich, follow him, Lechchenko. Yeah, I can't see Tommy. Then please, Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u141	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro I am deeply indignant that for the second day in a row under the pressure of government, nationalists, and socialists, we must have this subject. Do we not have other questions? For example, preparations for the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. We have a 26 - year - old Chernobyl disaster, and there are problems of mass, and the government is not solving them. School funding, other questions. And we've been spending a lot of time around this for two days. Moreover, all of this is being done in harmony with the Western masters of today’s government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u142	Alexy Korsakov, faction of "Ukraine". He's got Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u143	The mosquito's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u144	Please, Mikola Komar microphone. Mikoli Komara microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u145	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, we need to move on to the "different" because there are speeches planned. We're in violation of the procedure for our meeting right now. Please move on to "different." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u146	Please, Basil Calinchuk, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u147	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, dear friends, we really do have a product balance, and we do not have enough meat for 2005, and we need to vote on amendments to the Customs Tariff Act. I would ask Adam Ivanovich to put the matter to the vote again, to vote on it at least in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u148	Yes, Nikolainka. Omelchenko Grigory, faction of Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u149	Omelchenko Grigory, Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Head, distinguished National Deputies of Ukraine! In fact, Adam was in such a hurry that some national deputies were unable to vote at the right time. I ask you again, once again, to ask this question for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u150	Yes, please, Bartkov, Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u151	Basil Bratkov, Ukrainian National Party Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to speculate on purely economic issues. Meat and meat should be imported into Ukraine, evidently today. So I would like to support this law. Give the rest of your time to your colleague, Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u152	Manchuenko microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u153	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The question currently being considered is very important for the Ukrainian market. If we really care about the Ukrainian people, we should make a positive decision at least through the adoption of the bill in the first reading. If we lack some high - quality meat and meat products, we need to solve this problem rather than delay the solution for another two or three or four weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to return to voting, please make up your mind. [[13:20:38]] For 230 We went back to the vote. Dear colleagues, don't blame me, I'm acting in accordance with the Rules. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian customs tariff laws, registration number 7181. [[13:21:19]] For 238. The law is passed. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" - 85, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 29, SPU - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 24, UNODC - 23, SDPU - 20, "The only Ukraine" - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, SPTU - 8, "Democratic Initiatives" - 8, "The Union" - 11, "The post-factional - 11. Yes, Your Honor, I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Please turn on the monitor. Dear colleagues, perhaps I would like to consult with you. We have a decree on the Chernobyl hearings we've been listening to. Maybe we'd take it, this Chernobyl hearing order, and then we'd go to different places? Is there no objection? I repeat: in general, there will be no vote because there are those who deny it. So in general, I won't put it to a vote. Yeah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then. Once again, my fellow Members, I told you, there will be no voting on the whole bill. He denies the faction of Communists, denies Yuri Carmazin and so on. Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, please put to the vote, here we have three draft decrees: on the state of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukrainian legislation on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Registration number 7348, 7348-1, 7348-2. The authors are Rahansky, 7348, 7348-1 - School and 7348-2 - Professional Committee. I'll put it to a vote in that order. No, they'll be fine. But it is clear that the committee recommends that the committee be supported. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole of the decrees on the state of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukrainian legislation on the comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 7348, author of the Rahano Anatoly Warfolomiovich. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:05]] For-95 Not accepted. I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a decree on the state of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Legislation of Ukraine on a comprehensive solution to the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, registration number 7348-1, by School Andrew. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:41]] For 124 Not accepted. And it's about voting: on adoption as a whole as a decree on the state of implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukrainian legislation on a comprehensive solution to the problems of dealing with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. [[Registration number 7348-2, the authors are a professional committee, such as Hennady Rudenko]] Please vote. [[13:26:23]] For 199 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 32, Communist - 49, Ukrainian - 7, People's Party - 17, Socialist - 23, Block Timoshenko - 12, Ukrainian People's Party - 22, Social Democrats - 16, Ukraine - 6, Dem. Ukraine - 1, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 5, Dem. Initiatives - 4, Union - 1, non-fractional - 4. Dear colleagues, I ask you to gather! Who is in favour of returning to the vote of the final ruling, please vote. Come on, please. [[13:27:19]] For 175 175, even less. Well, when we have the opportunity, we'll go back to these draft regulations. Yes, please show me on your monitor on "Victory." From what? [[N o M e s s a ……]] And it's not my fault you didn't sign up. Yes, please. Why don't I have names on my monitor? On the computer. I repeat, I've made it clear that I'm going to sign up for "Virgin" and sign up. Yes, please, we'll be working for 15 minutes in 14 minutes. I'll continue for 15 minutes. Please, Shufrich Nestor. Hare. Please, Rabbit Vladimir. After him, Mastermaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vladimir Hare, faction of Social Democrats, Zitomirščina. [[United]] Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear representatives of the media and citizens of Ukraine! I want to inform you about the implementation of some of the Ukrainian Laws on the Status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and the information in the territory of the Žitomir Region. I would like to remind you that in accordance with article 18, paragraphs 1 and 4, of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy, the People's Deputy has the right to be published in newspapers of state and municipal property for the purpose of clarifying its own position, the position of the faction of the Supreme Council on any socio-political event in the state. This law clearly regulates the right to such a publication once a month with a newspaper area of 1/16. What we have here is real. So from January to April of this year, I sent out thirty editions of the Žitomir Region 87 materials relating to the issue of the withdrawal of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent from Iraq, the 2005 budget, and so on. Unfortunately, in breaking the law, my materials were printed only in fourteen of the 87 in ten editions of 30 in the area. All were sent by mail and accompanied by a letter from a national deputy containing references to the standards of the laws. Dear colleagues! What's interesting is not only this statistic, but also the motivation for the newspaper editors that I'd like to introduce you to. So is the editor of the newspaper "Russia Land" France. He did not print any material because his newspaper could not explain the point of view of the people's representative of the Hare, because it did not match the position of deputy major of the current governor of the area of Pavel Žebrovsky. The editor of the newspaper News of the Red Army doesn't print the material, thinking that the Iraqi issue is out of date. The editor of the Koročina Pismak newspaper found a simpler explanation: all three materials did not come because they must have been lost somewhere. The editor of the Corestinian newspaper "The Drewland" does not print the materials of the National MP, commenting on the following: let the MP offer normal materials, not those that he sends. The last, the editor of the Raspberry News, John Wozniak, was the most original, and he supported his refusal by saying that he would send a letter to the President of Ukraine saying that his national deputy was blackmailing and squandering laws that he also knew. So on and so forth. It is clear that with the appointed editors and others who have not spoken here today, I will soon find out, as a national MP, that they have violated not only their right to receive information but also their citizens. At the same time, I would like to address the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikli Tomenka, where is freedom of speech and information promised by the new government? Where is the rule of law and law? Where is the new attitude toward the opposition forces? What has changed with regard to the previous political regime? I realize that these questions are rhetorical because the new authorities do not want to see these problems. Today she is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, ready to make proposals for the cessation of Ukraine's monitoring of freedom of speech, information and respect for democracy in general. Isn't it premature? Take your time, dear fellows. The very fact of the orange revolution that you are so proud of does not solve these problems, as it is not and will not be a pass to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u156	Yes, please, Basil Calinchuk, People's Party faction, prepare for the School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u157	Thank you. Kalinczuk, People's Party faction, Rest. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, voters, would like to draw your attention to two issues that need to be resolved in our country, and that is to say those who cannot yet provide for themselves, orphans and children who have been deprived of parental care, and those who can no longer provide for themselves, the elderly. First, according to article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution, every citizen has the right to housing and no one, except the court, can deprive him of his residence. At the same time, children who are left without parental care and are brought up in specialised children’s homes are left homeless. To address this issue, as an option, the employees of the specialized Children’s House No. 3. From Odessa, where such children are raised, it is considered appropriate to oblige parents who, after giving birth to a child, leave the child in a maternity home and for two months refuse to do so, to give the child 13.6 square feet [13.6 sq m] of housing set by the Housing Code, the standard, in their parents ’ private home. And to appoint a state institution in which a child is under the care of a child, also to care for his or her property. There's another question about underage citizens. In children’s homes, according to the usual situation, children are up to four years old, then transferred to a children’s home, where they remain for up to seven years. Moving from one children’s home to another for a short period of time often harms the mental health of children who cannot adapt to new living conditions. It would be desirable to improve the educational work of raising the quality of social protection, material security, medical and pedagogical care for orphans and children without parental care, to establish that they are in one state institution from the time of their birth to the age of seven. The other one. This is about the gasification of the residential buildings of rural pensioners. It is known that pensions are small and do not allow for the cost of gasification. At the same time, many citizens have large sums of resources that have not been recovered from savings. As an example, in the Great Bohemian region of Odessa, in the pensioners of the village of Gribenuki Arkan Olga Ivanovna, in the book 19,000 bracelets, in the pensioners of the village of the town type Frunziuk of the Black Helen of Juhimovna, in the book 15,000 bracelets. It would be appropriate to include the gasification of pensioners’ homes in rural areas, based on their own savings, and to compensate for the 6 billion sums foreseen in the 2005 State Budget for municipal debt repayments. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and please inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the solution of the issues raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u158	Please give the floor to Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Prepare Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u159	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Party of Fatherland. I would like to point out that I am truly grateful that the Supreme Council supported the request to the President for an assessment of the events on 9 March. I remind you, on March 9, 2001, when young people came out of the street of Ukraine, including Kiev, and on Taras Shevchenka's birthday, they walked the streets of Kiev, for which they were later brutally beaten, 200 people were then arrested, fabricated as I am, a criminal case totally illegal and groundless. It was totally illegal and unjustifiably fabricated and tried on March 9. And the judge who was then judging is still exercising justice. Later there was an appeal. The Court of Appeal has reviewed this sentence somewhat, but no less than 19 convicted 15 have been punished in places of deprivation. I think we should finally answer the question: who was responsible for it, who was behind it, who was behind it, who was behind it, who was responsible for it, and how were we to get out of this conflict today? I'm convinced that those guys, all except those who went through this spring of March 9th, deserve to be presented to higher public rewards, because these people caused those events that later became reality and were called the Orange Revolution. Because in that experience, in our bitter experience it was clear that only a large number of people, only when the whole nation rises, only then can we and we have the opportunity to remove the criminal regime from power. Then there was the first attempt, the first attempt was a failure, but the victims of this first attempt deserve a minimum of attention. A lot of them can't adapt right now, they can't find a job. I can call it a last name. This is Oleg Boyko, my friend and helper. He can't get a job, he honestly points out that yes, he's been tried on any case, and no, I mean, no enterprise has ever been able to hire him on that matter. So I would like the government rewards, the State rewards, to find those responsible, those who deserve them. And I would like to take this opportunity to say hello to the first worthy and worthy person who received the Hero of Ukraine, Leukko Lukyanenko. This is the man who in his struggle proved that he was always a hero of Ukraine. And he refused to do what he wanted to do by the hero of Ukraine, the previous president. He accepted this reward, accepted the reward of the one from whom he wanted to accept it, for he believed that his merits were appreciated. So I want today’s president to appreciate the merits and the young boys of March 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u160	The word is given by Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. Get ready for Mikola Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u161	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On April 26, 19 years have passed since the worst technological accident in human history — the Chernobyl disaster. This issue was discussed in detail on April 12 on Government Day. The representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers informed us about the work that is now going on around eliminating the consequences, and assured us of optimistic prospects. But it's really bad stuff here. The situation of overcoming the consequences is so complex that some do not even realize it. The negative effects are among other factors and capitalist restorations in Ukraine, antinational reforms that take place in all spheres of society’s life. In fact, no matter what anyone said, the state abandoned the Chernobyl territory that had been affected by Chernobyl in the first place. If any work with the affected population is carried out in cities and reicenters, the rural area is small. In the bourgeois state, where there are millions and billionaires living on the mountain, there are no funds for this purpose. As a result, schools, medical facilities, gas pipelines, and pipelines are closing down in the affected areas. People use mushrooms, berries, water, milk, meat, and other foods that are contaminated by radionuclides. They suffer massive illness and die at an early age. Significant areas around CHAES are gradually becoming dead zones, and in some others the tongue is returned to talk about reducing the number of population sites that are linked to the radioactive pollution zone as a result of the disaster. We must reject as harmful to the people of Ukraine. These ominous intentions. And what he writes in his letter is the deputy head of the Chernobyl District Assistance Fund for the disabled, Chernobyl Kobelinski: "Unfortunately, since October last year, and since this time, it has never been. No new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has allocated any funds to the disabled for hospital treatment. Most of these pensions are not allowed to buy the necessary drugs, and they are not available at the hospital either. Without the treatment of the disabled, they are released from their home without healing, and then they face severe consequences or death." Comments are unnecessary. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the government, I think, should urgently address the issue of a significant increase in funding for all Chernobyl programmes, so that clean food will not be allocated to 60 copies, but rather a decent amount to be actively involved in deactivation of areas, gas and water pipelines, shelters for black people, so that medical facilities can have enough medicine to heal the victims not only in the sanatoriums under the direction of MCAES, but also by their choice, including in their locals, so that the paramedics and their families have the opportunity to live more human lives so that the people affected by the radiation of the area and the inhabitants of the locations there have a prospect, although in the context of "wild capitalism" can only dream of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u162	Yes, Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine. Prepare Gregory Omelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" is very concerned, and on the next day it is drawing the attention of the public and the leaders of the state to an extremely harsh violation of the legislation and all human morality in the situation of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council and the Donetsk district organization of the Boris Koleznikov Party of the Regions. The legally elected leader of the district representative authority continues to remain in the investigative isolation. Neither the condition of his health nor the fact that Kolesnikov was entrusted with nearly a hundred national deputies who applied for his release for nondeparture. The fact is, it is fabricated by politicians who have come to power, the Kolesnik business, that moves right in front of the eyes. To preserve the honour of a uniform that has long been absent from some of the new leaders of the law enforcement agencies, they are resorting to falsifications in criminal investigations to prevent the first political prisoner in Ukraine from being released by the new Ukrainian government because of the city. The "Regions of Ukraine" faction asks the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to answer the following questions: why are you and your deputy Moskal lying on television and from the Parliament's stand to sign a sales contract and hand over shares to the White Swan shopping centre, "putting in a freshly dug grave"? Why do you claim that you have the right recording? And in Kolesnik's indictment, you write: "The transfer of shares took place in the premises of the Donetsk district branch of the bank through the formation of a sales contract. What legs did you, Yuri Lucenko, talk about after Kolesnikov’s arrest, if the so - called “tempered” Pinchuck showed that he was on diabetes treatment in January - May 2002, which resulted in his being rejected. [[in quotes]] And they only met Kolesnikov six months later, in July 2002. The fact of Pinchuck’s leg disease was confirmed on television by his daughter - in - law, a doctor present who knows the situation personally. Which threats did you refer to when he and Kolesnikov confirmed that they never met, which is the second so-called victim. Why does Moskal swear on the Bible that he will lead the investigation into the court and the Attorney General’s Office? What kind of people, according to Moskal, said on the "Inter" television channel, brought Pinchuck to him, and whose direction was it two and a half years later? The "Regions of Ukraine" faction demands that the Supreme Council of Interior Minister Yuri Lucenka be immediately called upon to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given by Gregory Omelchenko, a faction of the Block of Timoshenko. He's acting in place of Vladimir Muhan. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u165	Gregory Omelchenko, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor. Dear fellow countrymen! I want to show you the double standards that are being implemented, unfortunately, and in Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and especially in the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Lithuania. Today we witnessed Mr. Litwin's vote without a draft decision voting in favour of a change in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- and the plenary sessions did not change until May 17th. At the same time, despite the fact that there was a draft decision registered on behalf of the Temporary Investigation Commission on hearing the information of the Attorney-General and the report of the head of the Interim Investigation Commission on the outcome of the investigation into the circumstances of the killings of journalists, George Gongadze, Igor Alexandrov and other resonance cases, this question was never put to the vote, although the draft ruling was given to the National Deputies. But here's another one. With what difficulty, dear colleagues, you have received this draft decree and the report of the interim commission of inquiry that has been added to it. Early in the morning, April 20th, the draft decree was registered at number 7388. I asked and demanded that on Wednesday or Thursday, when there was a vote, the project be distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies with a report from the Interim Investigation Commission. This was not done. And this was done on purpose under the direction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Lithuania. And only today did you receive this draft decree and report from the Interim Investigation Commission. I understand that many of the people's deputies, including in this room, are afraid that their names will be named, as they, in cooperation with the former President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, have acted with signs of crime, and these materials were sent by the Temporary Investigation Commission to the Attorney General's Office for a criminal offence. I understand that many of them will find it unpleasant to listen to these conclusions of the commission of inquiry, as well as to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the conclusions have been made, I would stress, by unanimous vote, by the interim commission of inquiry. Here's just one of them. The interim commission of inquiry reached such conclusions. President of Ukraine Kuchma, former Head of the President's Administration, now Head of the Supreme Council Vladimir Litwin, former Minister of Interior, now the late Yuri Kravchenko and former head of the Ukrainian Security Service, now the National Deputy of Ukraine Leonid Derkac, are participants in the crime envisaged in article 146 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, i.e. the organizers and instigators of the kidnapping of George Gongadze. The draft decree suggested hearing a report on May 4, 5, or 6. Now we won't listen again. If you vote, maybe the 17th. Here's your job, double standards. Thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u166	Thank you. I have to make a point, because there was no basis for the charges. First of all, the chairman didn't break anything, because the agreement was to move these days, and we voted, if I'm not mistaken, 350 or 370 people's deputies. That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to be precise with Colonel Security, and I would like to remind you that during this week, we have put to the vote four times in the session room the issue of including the report of the commission he heads. Not once in four times did the question get the required number of votes. So please be specific in your comments. Anatoly Frost, group of Democratic Ukraine. Get ready instead of Grmiri Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u167	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I was repeatedly approached by war veterans in Afghanistan, young people, the MP Corps, and the community of the Mikhail district of Zaporez Region with the following question. Perhaps some in the hall remember that I was still addressing the former president of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, with the following problem. As early as May 1983, while performing an international duty in Afghanistan, our countryman, Private Viktor Volodymyrovich Gnydius, died. The feats of Gnido are known to young people, veterans, and not only to our farmland, but also to many parts of Russia, Dagestan. He is a model of courage, courage, and loyalty to serving the Father. But this is what the situation is all about. The entire group of soldiers who carried out an international duty in Afghanistan were all killed, almost all of this group was posthumously rewarded, assigned to the name Hero of the Soviet Union, then to the collapse of the Soviet Union, because Russia is the heir to the Soviet Union, almost all of them were posthumously assigned to the name Hero of Russia. I have been addressing this problem to all the institutions, including Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, and it is clear from this rostrum. But all the time, I've had an answer for my constituents that, according to the mandate of the head of the Ukrainian government, you've been asked to address the issue of assigning the Ukrainian Hero to Gnidom, who died in Afghanistan. And in accordance with article 7 of the status of the Ukrainian hero, this title is not assigned to credits that have taken place in the past and are not related to the attitude and development of an independent Ukraine. Thus, the problem of assigning the title of a hero is removed and cannot be resolved. I'll tell you that the citizens of the Baltics, the soldiers who died, who participated in this fight, the Baltics, Kazakhstan, other countries of the former Soviet Union, were trying to claim that the title was posthumously assigned to their citizens. We Ukrainian citizens, the people of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, his Administration cannot solve this issue. I understand that it will be resolved at an interstate level. It must be decided. So the citizens of the Mikhail district of Zaporozhye asked me to contact the President of Ukraine from this rostrum. Perhaps the new president of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, will resolve this issue with his inter-State administration. The point is, the people and the inhabitants of this land are always
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u168	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction, Communist faction, prepare for Hubsky. No, please, all equal. You said the main thing. What do you say in half a second? There will be a request for the President, all requests will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u169	Anatoly Orzhachovsky Faction of the Ukrainian Company Dear colleagues, voters, in my speech, I would like to violate the respect of the authorities for war veterans. In association with the Hersonian veterans and other areas, reading their letters, I heard that we had little to say about ourselves and the lost brothers, those who fought against the enemy, taking into their hands the weapons that forged the victory in the back of the Kuchma team. Of course, there wasn't much belief in everything that was said, that there was hope in the soul that maybe in the 60th year of the victory of the Soviet people and their armies over fascism, that we would be heroes of war and the rear, who would not be much more adorned with fame and all the legal benefits. But expectations were futile. Even in Kiev, veterans had to fight at parliamentary hearings to find arguments now for Mr. Yushchenk. Ukrainian veterans thank the factions of the UK Company for understanding the history of the past and protecting the interests of the Heroes of the Great Homeland War, both in Parliament and in the regions. We see those who promised the golden mountains, dividing the minister’s portfolios and other positions, praising themselves, their relatives, quickly passing under the patronage of the West. Unfortunately, neither the new president nor the prime minister of the orange government mentions 14 million veterans as they should. Probably because many of them fought for the Soviet homeland raised the ruined postwar economy, defended the glory of the great victory, and now every day watches the destruction of the state. Little does the modern - day authorities see a great victory as the victory of the peoples of the international country, but they try to raise the status of U.N.A. soldiers. The abuse of military pensioners continues. On February 9, this year, the head of the legislative body of Ukraine, speaking in the capital of the Czech Republic, did not talk about his fellow countrymen who protected Czechoslovakia from fascism. Even false statements were made regarding the Soviet Armed Forces. Veterans understand this as an insult to the feat of the warriors of the front. Here's a fresh example. Parliament did not support Peter Simonek's proposal that the Heads of State should have a joint parade to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Victory. Mr. Tomenk’s open and open lies in answer to my question about the act of vandalism committed by the father of the autocephalist church in connection with the destruction of the historical monument. The actions of the latter and his followers are viewed not as illegal, which led to the destruction of the monument in honor of the liberation of the city from the fascists, but as a help to the authorities in carrying out the first stage of the movement of the sanctuary. Here we are. This must be the face of today’s authority. It is well - known that a criminal case has been committed, and it has been proved that it is illegal to obtain an act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Sergey Chickanov, the Communist faction. Get ready, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u171	Respectable colleagues, distinguished presiding, respected voters. Deputy Chicanov, Communist faction. During the last week, Ukraine's political life has seen new, unarmed eyes, a trend of direct dependence on the foreign policy of the President and his Government on the will of the Pacific masters. It is the fierce appearance of officials and involved politicians regarding the presence of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Sevastopol. It is clear to all that the revitalization of this process began immediately after the visit of Yushchenko and his supporters to Washington. The massacre went from the ocean to the ocean. Its goal is to link Ukraine with Russia, to remove it from its historic neighbours, to move NATO further eastward, to destabilize the situation in the Azoo-Black Sea and Mediterranean region. There is nothing surprising about this, since the people who have come to power for American money are obliged to work on this money. And not only do they not take into account the historical and political realities of the centuries but they also take into account the traditions of friendship among our peoples. They are not patriots of the State of Ukraine, they are United States sales puppets and their political partners. They immediately found many arguments explaining the extreme value of the fleet's presence in Sevastopol, more so its threat to Ukraine's national security. This is even an unacceptable impact of the fleet on the situation in Crimea, the fact that the fleet is engaged in the Russianization of the Crimea population, is poisoning the environment of the peninsula, and is contributing to the penetration of world terrorism into Ukraine. And what's more, they and their masters are afraid that there's an aircraft on the fleet that can really resist the aggressive desire of the Americans. Economic claims are also made. Undoubtedly, the Russian fleet's contract of residence in Sevastopol, signed in 1997. And they need to be removed. But to speak of the withdrawal of the fleet, the denunciation of the treaty, the economic claims against Russia, not just cynicism, but the betrayal of good neighbourly relations between the two States. I would like to ask those who are in favour of withdrawing the fleet and who have an unfettered desire to house NATO ships in the bays. You've been building a city and a fleet for 200 years? Did you restore him after the war? Do you provide his life's interests? Can you protect the southern borders of Ukraine by means of those ruins that are called the Ukrainian naval forces? Of course not. Having been given the opportunity to have $97 million a year for the fleet's stay, somehow you quickly forgot about the two billion debts of Russia, and you forgot that you were actually robbing the city of Sevastopol and its inhabitants. In the people, such rulers are called “swatters. ” The majority of the population of Ukraine opposed to joining NATO. And how can we call power that is not in the interests of the people? Of course it's anti-national. The fundamental actions of this authority are defined by the people as “political gringoles”. There's no such thing as a mind or a fantasy. And the Black Sea fleet stood, stood, and stood in Sevastopol, that is the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u172	Yes, please, Ratushniak has six minutes, for the Holy One has given him his time. Prepare John the Rabbit instead of Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies, radio listeners! Sergey Ratushnjak, Zakarpaty, People's Faction, faction of the People's Party of Vladimir Lithuania. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there was a rather historic meeting today on the issue of the monitoring policy of the National Bank. We all urge that we go to the West, then to the East instead of making ourselves an attractive country to which both the East and the West will come. And to do that, it takes as soon as possible to get the minimum wage of a thousand euros, a pension of 600 euros and so on, only in the event of an increase in money and so that our people of Ukraine are not called a crowd, not an electorate, not a population, not a taxpayer, but a class of consumers, as is the case in all developed countries! To do this for the first time in 14 years, I think the National Bank and the government have taken substantial, fundamental steps. I'd like to draw your attention to and respectable communists, whom I respect that reducing the rate, strengthening the national currency, is the cost of a technology park that's being imported, which means. Losing jobs, that is, fighting unemployment. And when it comes to some of the metallurgical oligarches being lost, the energy supply of the whole state -- gas and oil -- is now being purchased at less cost. So for a retired woman who heats a teapot on gas, it becomes convenient. And the third. We're all critical, both communists and socialists first of all, because we have gang credit rates from banks that are headed to the real economy. And to do that, you don't just have to reduce them from 20 to 22 dollars to 10 to 12, which is in the currency today. And even below ten, it's in the national currency. But it is possible, again, only by strengthening the national currency. What I'm proposing to today's government, to Parliament and to the oligarchs: if you say you're a people, let's do it, folks, admit that you're not working for one and a half, but you're working for three percent of the profitability of steel exports, like this whole world's metallurgy is Chinese, Brazilian and English. And you work at 60-70 percent profitability. Share with the State, share with the common people. The government and parliament need to abolish VAT for the export of all kinds of metals and chemicals. Next, I'd like to introduce an export to alloy steel -- $100, 50 dollars of duty for boats and simple steel. You're going to have the opportunity this year and you're going to double the pensions and wages every month, and you're going to do it every month. To intervene and invest in a citizen who becomes a consumer and who feeds his native producer. To this end, I suggest that the next step be taken by the oligarchs and the President and the government to respond carefully: to join the new government with three lists. The first list to ask and to say it's my holy, I won't give it up. The second letter that let's say here we're going to divide. And the third is to make it soundless. Of course, the authorities should offer certain political amnesty on certain issues. The second question I'd like is customs tariffs. What are customs tariffs today? Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't about the whole spectrum today, I'm definitely against it, but I'm in favour of supporting the meat sector: 2.1 million of us a year, 1.8 of us produce, that's 300,000 we have to drive. That, by the way, on the one hand, is what we're missing and we're not producing, on the other hand, it's those 300,000 that are at least being smuggled, but today it's going to be legitimately paid for, and there's going to be a budget replenishment. Thus, Parliament and government in this sector, meat, could achieve the so-called "filial" compromise, so that there is no speculative, I repeat, increase in the price of meat due to its deficit. And these factions of factions that hurt and block the issue are consciously going to increase the price of meat. Deficit is price increases, we have to understand that. But we should be honest to say that from the current planned funding, the agricultural sector got 11 percent at the beginning of the month. It's very dangerous. Requesting the government to invest in its own manufacturer, not in Dutch, American and Japanese farmers. Second: Parliament supports this philatelic compromise for this year to keep price hikes. And the third. If I have time, I would like to pay attention to the public: for the first time in Ukraine, I was the head of the city of Uzhgrada, who created the institution because we have the lowest education in Ukraine, and I created the Uzhgrad Institute of Information, Economics and the Rights to Municipal Property. In a criminal way, this institution has been transformed into a state, without the decision of the session, but only the session, the city’s deputies have to manage their property on behalf of the people. The other one. Next. This institution, the property of its premises, became the property of today’s rector Vaschuk. He made it public, he had a second category, and he paid for the fourth category. Today, for five million dollars, the entire institution is practically state - owned, and the state rents its property and family to raise our children. Minister Nikolayenko and the Attorney General's Office. He's doing a write-off. Bandit stole on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u174	Thank you. John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u175	The Ukrainian People's Party supports the general philosophy that the government lays as the basis for administrative and territorial reform, which aims to increase the potential of local self-government, including the provision of various services to the population. And this philosophy is beyond question. The noble goal is to ensure that services are equally available to every citizen of the country, requires a more comprehensive approach and cannot be reduced to a formal increase in the number of local communities and territorial and administrative units in the region. In this context, I want to stop by some of the principles that the Ukrainian People's Party believes should be taken into account in the implementation of administrative and territorial reform. First, the importance of the infrastructure component of administrative and territorial reform needs to be strengthened. In practice, this means that the size of administrative territorial communities and administrative areas, the availability of services directly depends on the development of infrastructure, such as networks and road conditions. The other one. As a result of the reform, each level of self-government needs to have its own budget base, which requires addressing a set of issues related to improving inter-budget relations, developing a material base for local self-government, and creating an effective management system for municipal property. Finally, in the context of administrative and territorial reform, we need to take into account the specificities of the regions of Ukraine, particularly the natural geographical conditions and the state of the natural environment. Not long ago, I met with residents of the population of the Verhovinsky and Kosovar region of the Ivano-Frankov region and also visited the Narodicki and Ovrutsky districts of the Žitomir region, and they told me everywhere about the need to count the specifics of these areas. Thus, a separate approach requires reform in the mountainous areas of Ukraine. Given the natural climate conditions, they're complicated, they're scattered and they're very far away from the district centers, there's no roads. We need to think carefully about how to overwhelm territories and communities. We should not reject the offer of conservation in the mountainous regions of existing areas. In our view, administrative-territorial reform should create conditions for the implementation of state policies aimed at the sustainable and environmentally balanced development of mountain areas. People in mountain regions should be given the opportunity to make a living by such activities as the introduction of environmentally balanced forest and agriculture, woodworking, national innovations, green tourism, recreational and cultural tourism services. Administrative-territorial reform should provide for the pre-eminent infrastructure development of the territory, especially the development, the network of educational and medical infrastructures, support and protection of small and medium-sized enterprises. Similarly to the mountainous regions of Chernobyl, reform cannot be based largely on the principles of the enormity of the territorial communities. The basic orientation of reform here should be the principle of rehabilitation, both natural and human. In areas such as administrative and territorial reform, it should be consistent with a long-term government programme to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. So I'd like to get this government's attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u176	The word is Boris Ilchi Oliynik. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues! If anyone still confuses the situation with the buyers and killers of Gongadze, Alexandrov, hopes to hide the murder of Gethman, Sherban, the ministers of Kravchenk and Kirpe, he is tragically mistaken. On the contrary, he who is disciplined by impunity betrays in his foolishness his master, who stands over the presidents and all the Ukrainian instembly in a system that rules not only Ukraine but also tries to govern the world. In fact, in Ukraine they no longer hide with it, hanging some maps in their offices, and in the middle of Kiev, it's the Mayan of Independence that the cartoon-chained Michael, the so-called Archangel, this, sorry, quasimodo painted in black, doesn't give us any doubt that it's not the supreme, it's the angel of the heavenly powers, it's the person that's approaching the prince of the world of all. Dear colleagues! We stand at the threshold of the 60th anniversary of the triumph of the Great Homeland War, at the threshold of victory over the evil of the universe -- fascism. Our grandfathers, parents, sisters of mercy, went to a cosmopolitan and frontal fire, dying for us to rule from secret centers that nest far outside the sovereign Ukraine. But let us fear God, dear colleagues. I'd like to welcome all of you to Easter with the Great Immortal Victory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u178	Thank you, yes, for Belarus Victor Taran, to prepare for the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u179	Victor Terrence. Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Dear friends, dear citizens, since there will be no more plenary meetings by May 9th, I, like Boris Illich, want to welcome from the Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, from our faction, from the Fatherland Party all the veterans of World War II who have lived our lives, honor and freedom of Ukraine. This is the most important thing. And the second question: the world knows the name of Vasil Alexandrovich Sukhomlinsky and I have made a parliamentary request, look at the Prime Minister, Mr. Mikola Tomenk, on the subject of the unsatisfying state, in my opinion. The secondary school, the school de Vasil Alexandrovich was the director and the town of Pavliší. The village that is still being visited by delegations from all over the world is being visited to draw up a valuable teaching experience at the school of Suhamlin. And in my reply to Mr. Tomenko, it's clear, let's just say that the corresponding orders have been given to the Kirovograd district government. And if this is an important question, which is called, has not been forgotten, but has come up with a concrete solution, I want to announce my open parliamentary request to the leadership of the Provincial Regional Authority, and I ask that you send it accordingly to the address. So the question to the Kyrovograd district government. First of all, how do you do the first- or third-degree lab work on the basis of the Pavli School of Public Education? When will it be created? What this school lab is looking at. Second, how the proper financing of Paul’s School of Public Education will be ensured. Third, when the elementaryly ordered village of Pavlisht is cleaned, that is, when the pond is cleaned, which of the beautiful lake has turned into a puddle. And I'm asking you to give specific answers here, to complete the expected work, not to report what's already been done, because this correspondence has been going on for years. And third, fourth, forgive me when there are elementary normal roads in the village of Pavlish that can be used as a tractor today. I look forward to an answer from the leadership of the Provincial District Administration and I hope that the problems that have been violated by me and our faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will indeed be solved in the interests of the pedagogical science of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u180	Mikola Sadowa, faction of the Socialist Party, prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u181	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Kirovograd Honorable deputies, distinguished listeners. I was approached by a group of health institutions in the city of Kirovgrad, which is primarily the fifth clinic, the students of all schools in Kirovgrad, the city’s children’s clinic number 2, the city’s children’s hospital, the city’s maternity home. All concerned about one problem: the destruction of a medical service system in the city of Kirovograd, which has been created for decades. All of this took place under the direction of the city’s head, Mikola Chigirina, his deputy, Volkanov, who is now in the search and health chief, Varchuk, the director of health care. People are asking for urgent assistance in maintaining the city’s number 5 clinic in Kirovgrad as a medical facility that serves 50,000 people for 14 years. A year ago, by order of the city health department, number 5 was handed over to a student clinic with 16,000 students and 8,000 students at the trade and cybernetic colleges who were thrown into the street and handed over to the city’s prosecutor’s office. The transfer of student clinic number five to clinic number five without any material base has significantly worsened the working conditions of the staff. Today, the local health department is preparing a new order, a student clinic is being relegated to clinic number 5 and moved to clinic number 3, but not to the floor, and clinic number 5 is being placed on all two floors, which is also being evicted from their rented premises. Thus, a merger will be made between the provision of medical care to adult populations, including tuberculosis patients, AIDS, and other child care inspections, including infants. Such a union will even worsen the working conditions of both doctors, both children and adults, especially war veterans, and those who have suffered from an accident at CHAES. At the same time, decisions are being made on the liquidation of children’s outpatient clinics and women’s counselling, located close to clinic number five, to transfer their premises to business entities. There is no allowance in the maternity home. The city’s children’s hospitals were first converted to a business center, and now they are being evicted to the streets. The premises are dedicated to business. A children’s clinic destroyed by 20,000 people. That's why I'm addressing all of the city's citizens, the ministries of interest and the news that we have to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are approaching Easter. Let all those who wish speak now. I think we don't have much left. Please give the floor to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u183	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear compatriots, I have been approached by members of the labour group of the company's stockholders' company, the Rhythm, for violating the property rights of its owners, for resisting the laws of entrepreneurial activity, for dismantling property in a particularly large way, and for deliberately failing to comply with court decisions. The claimants are concerned about the enthusiasm of this business by businesses led by citizen Kaltsev, during which most of their women are subjected to an illegal use of physical force. Taking over the business and hindering its economic activity resulted in massive layoffs. The violation of the corporate rights of participants, the massive theft of property associated with the falsification of the general assembly protocol, the arbitrary change of management, the intense capture of the administrative premises on the Djržinsky Street, 2 in Zaporozhye with the illegal use of special means, the closure of commercial and other objects, some of which are not owned by the Ritam Society, but belong to other entities. Zaporozhye's voters are concerned about the massive illegal acquisition of property and accounting documents by 10 private entrepreneurs and commercial enterprises, including the mentioned company "Ritam", the open stockholder society "Yvels", "Master-Stimul", "Aura", the violation of their constitutional right to entrepreneurship, the involvement of representatives of public authorities and some parliamentarians who should now be present in the hall, who are associated with the so-called Donetsk-Lugansk business clan at the participation of members of criminal groups. The total property of the immovable property and equipment exceeds 3.5 million. That's right. In the actions of those guilty of falsifying and possessing the documents of the designated owners, possessing their property on a particularly large scale, abuse of their official status are signs of crime provided for in article 191, 357, 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It has become effective and is subject to the execution of the ruling of the Kyiv District Court of Glossiev on the invalidity of the decisions of the successive general assemblies of this company, the "Ritm" and the protocol for monitoring the registration of shareholders. However, in violation of the requirements of article 124 of the Constitution, the court’s decisions are not executed. The burden of execution contributes to the execution of counterfeit documents by interested persons. In the actions of officials of the State Executive Service and interested officials of the enterprise responsible for failing to execute a judicial decision, there are signs of a crime provided for in article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The authority of the State Enforcement Service for a violation of the law has unjustifiably released the place of enforcement of that court decision. The facts were widely publicized. And such a mass violation is not tolerated. Although the prosecutor’s office in Zaporozhye County has committed a criminal offence, its investigation has resulted in gross violations of the law. Therefore, I think it is necessary to consider my statement as a request to the Attorney General, the Secretary-General of the Security and Defence Council, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in order to stop the abuse and restore the constitutional order and legality that I have stated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u184	The word is given by Stepan Ilkovich of the Cloud, a faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party. Get ready, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u185	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear TV sets and radio audiences! A recent official statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, delivered by the Ministry’s spokesman, said that Russia was in breach of agreements on the Russian Black Sea fleet in Ukraine. It is well - known that Sevastopol had a working group headed by the first foreign minister, Ogrezek. This commission found a huge number of violations of the contract concluded between Russia and Ukraine regarding the conditions of the Black Sea fleet. And there are those who I think threaten national security and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It is not enough that the Black Sea fleet creates a terrible ecological climate in Crimea, using land and property structures that are contractually subordinated to the Black Sea fleet for its own enrichment, transferring them to foreign legal and physical persons in a suborndance. And for these land and objects that Russia has to pay Ukraine for, it pays nothing at all. Without agreement with Ukraine, Russia is in the process of replacing arms. The Black Sea fleet is known to have received new aircraft capable of carrying nuclear warheads. In fact, Ukraine is depriving itself of sovereignty over part of its territory, because the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine is an attempt to submerge part of the Ukrainian territory. Russia has come to such an insolence that, contrary to all our laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, while in our territory, it does not allow any government commission or representatives of the Ukrainian press to participate in the facilities of the Black Sea fleet of Russia. It raises many questions and orders for the transport of property by the Russian Black Sea fleet beyond Ukrainian customs control. And given the continuing territorial claims made by Russian state officials to Ukraine, it is clear that the presence of the Black Sea fleet in the Crimea in all respects - military, political, economic and environmental - is inconvenient and dangerous for our state. I believe that the presence of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine poses a threat to the civilian population in Crimea and throughout Ukraine. I have long stated this problem, because the Treaty on the Conditions of Circumstances of the Black Sea Fleet in Ukraine is not only cabal for Ukraine, but also violates the 17th article of our Constitution, which says to black people in white: "In Ukraine, no foreign military bases are allowed." I can understand the Minister of Defense of Russia, who claims that it is impossible to revise the agreement on the temporary stay of the Black Sea fleet in Ukraine, he protects Russia's national interests. But I was very surprised by the statement by the U.S. spokesman of the U.S. Department that we are allowing the fleet of the Black Sea for a term only on the initiative of the Russian side -- there can be no other way that this situation is absurd. I believe we have every reason to raise the issue of the Black Sea Treaty denunciation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u186	Thank you. The word is given to Peter Simonek, a faction of Communists. Ivancho will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u187	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, our veterans, citizens of Ukraine! From the heart of all our comrades to the faction, the Communists, from our party, I would like to extend a warm welcome to you and to the first-rate festivals, and especially to the great celebration of the Great Victory in the Great Homeland War, because it is the celebration of all our Soviet people, a celebration that no one will ever destroy in human memory. I am deeply convinced that we will carry him through our lives. Welcoming you today with our future holiday, I would like to reiterate on behalf of our party, which you have always talked about in the years of the Great Homeland War, that "if I die, consider me a Communist," we have also presented to you before this festival a demonstration of the cinema of "Freedom," in which we have shown all the heroism of your great feat. Accept this gift to you. We also give you yesterday's decision, which was taken at the initiative of the Communists in the Supreme Council, and this decision is to appeal to the deputies of the local councils, that is, our colleagues. And I strongly believe that if they read it, it will be ours and friends to do everything we can to accommodate the burial sites of the dead so that we can repair the monuments and the memorial sites that testify to this great feat so that we can open up all the exhibitions in our museums so that we can show our children, grandchildren and great - grandchildren this great feat. We urge you, dear fellow workers, to help us to light eternal fire in all places where it has just witnessed our eternal memory of this great victory. Today, we urge you, Your Honor, to correct the mistake we have made in the years of independence under the pressure of nationalists and fascists when they renamed the streets after the Heroes of the Great Homeland War to name those who were the manuals of the fascists. I call on all of us, let's do everything we can to ensure that no one forgets the great feat. As communists, we have today in the Supreme Council made a decision to pay off all their savings to the participants in the fighting, to the disabled of the Great War. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not yet supported this position. And the last. We will do everything we can to prevent certain political forces, including the Supreme Council, from making decisions about the rehabilitation of UN UPA troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u188	Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho. Get ready for Lily Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear national MPs, radio listeners! To me, other Ukrainian national deputies are being approached by many business leaders who are anxious to break a number of issues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine related to the existing problems that have arisen since the adoption of the Law on the State Budget 2005 and the amendment of the Law on Taxation in External Economic Relations. [[on the payment of import duties, taxes and assemblies in the course of transactions with the donor raw materials by issuing billed billed by banks]] These changes have resulted in many negative consequences for enterprise entities working under the tax treatment scheme. The problem is that businesses do not have collateral, banks do not have the only mechanisms and interest rates, as well as reserves of huge funds and property. The process of avalancing takes a long time in addition to being extremely complicated by the tax, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Customs and today the most complex among the countries of Eastern Europe. Motivating the government to fight against price schemes, fraud in entrepreneurial activities is just a good idea, and the effects on the economy will lead to irreparable phenomena, situations where thousands of today's workers will be out of work. By failing to implement the avalanche mechanism, conditions have been created that greatly exacerbate the financial situation of enterprises, resulting in loss of purchases, mistrust on the part of partners, and loss of budget. In view of such a situation, industrial managers are urged to cancel the accepted order and the mechanisms for the formation of the billboards in the course of the operation with the donor raw material. In particular, I want to address the question of the Trans-Chinese Forest Chemical Combine, which is the only one in Ukraine that produces ethyl acetate in terms of more than 20,000 tons per year. The quality of ethyl acetate is consistent with European standards. And production uses demand for consumers in European countries and Turkey. However, with the good will of the government, the past government, which has been changed to the right ones, I do not want to count in the absence of time, Ukraine's laws of ethylate have become completely uncompetitive as European, Turkish and domestic, unfortunately, markets compared to foreign producers. [[in quotes]] We were evicted from the European market. We're losing this unique field today. We're losing because of rail tariffs and another production as the Berelian Inlet Career is the only one in Ukraine, by cancelling the correction coefficients, the state of affairs analysis shows, unfortunately, that today's legislation is neither the banking system nor the tax system nor the customs, nor the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, nor the companies themselves are willing to work under the terms of VAT billing, excise duty and customs. So let's ask the government to take it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u190	Thank you. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u191	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. The great electorate, the noble citizens of Ukraine, is approaching the light of the Christian resurrection of Christ and is eager to bring to mind the well - known Bible truth in these days, to know the truth and to make you free. Just recently, six months ago, on the soul of believing people, and just the citizens of Ukraine were struck by a great deal of untruth, and I want to tell you and I want to tell you about that lie, because I finally reported it to Inter in the evening air of "Detail," which took place on October 20th, the day before the first round of presidential elections. It was on this air that said, look, what scary people are going with presidential candidate Victor Yushchenk. Here's the scary Grigorovitch who beat an Orthodox father with an iron rod on his head. I did not personally see this television, but I learned from the people’s mouth. And it became very interesting to me that when and who could I beat, because I am not just a believing person, but I am a daughter and a daughter - in - law of a saint. But it was said, of course, a great lie. I went to the Attorney General's Office and asked him to explain who and when, or more faithfully, I was beating whether that was the case. The Attorney General explained that there was some uncle Mikhailo Schuvar at Ivano-Frankishi, who was given a false witness. On March 1, 2005, he was questioned and denied that I had taken part in such acts, and he deceived people. The last great week of fasting and a clean Thursday and a hot Friday is approaching, and this spiritual and moral cleansing is approaching, after which each one of us can stand before the god and tell the truth. Christ has also been raised in the spirit of the resurrection. That is why I appreciated the wrong done by this young man, Michael Shuvara, who repeatedly gives a false witness. In 33 copies, I decided to win the court and translate these 33 copies in favor of that church, which actually led to the fact that in many churches, I'm talking about the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, and I've got a bunch of lying, cynical postcards. The church blew up faith in people, I remember that. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church of Moscow’s Patriarchate in the city of Ohtirka, which looked at these postcards, looked at me with a soul. The church, which teaches people not to kill, not to steal, not to prelude, not to bear false witness, committed great crime and sin. But I forgive you. And on the eve of the great resurrection of Christ I say, there is good, there is truth, and God, and let the judgment of God judge such servants of the church. And from our Ukrainian faction, I warmly welcome all the Ukrainians, all the citizens from east to west, from north, from noon to Christmas. Christ Vosecres, resurrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-22-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, dear voters. Let's finish our session. I'd like another clarification, and I'm sorry there's no Gregory Omelchenk who mentioned the ruling here. Here I was familiar with the decree signed by Gregory Omelchenko on April 21, 2005. And it says in this decree: to ask the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vasiliev Hennadia, to bring criminal cases against the head of the Ukraine, Yuri Kravchenk, against the first Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree initiating the procedure for the removal of Kuchma from office of President and so on and so forth. April 21, 2005. A person who constantly proves to all that he is so scrupulous, so accurate, so thorough, and so on and so forth. And they go out to the rostrum and they talk, and they blame their heads for whatever they want. And so in closing, my dear friends, I inform you that we will be working on May 10th on Tuesday, and we will be spending the morning of the government's Day on the move to take action on Ukraine's entry into WTO. In the afternoon of 15 a.m., there will be Parliamentary hearings on Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine. The state of the art, the problems and the prospects for development." After that, May 11-13, we'll be working on committees and factions. Before the announcement of the closure of the session, I also sincerely join those greetings, both with Firstread, and Easter, and, of course, with a great, great holiday -- the 60th anniversary of Victory. Let us bow low to all the veterans for their immortal feat. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
