ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u1	Invite the national deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:07:55]] I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. There were 408 national deputies registered in the hall. Yes, Sergey Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u2	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I have taken the floor in connection with reports from the media that Victor Yushchenko is allegedly questioning the legitimacy of the decisions made last year between the second and third rounds of presidential elections. The legitimacy of our own choice has to be understood. In addition, Victor Yushchenko allegedly stated that he doubted the legitimacy of constitutional reform, would wait until the first January of the following year, and would then turn to the nation, would not specify the truth of which nation. This raises very serious doubts that Victor Andreevich Yushchenko is operating within the constitutional field of Ukraine. Once someone doubts the effectiveness of the current Constitution on the first January of the following year, he will be a state criminal with all the consequences. That's my firm opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u3	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we discussed in the morning the draft Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. This is registration number 7261. And we agreed to vote on this project at the evening session. I'm asking for weight! Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law on the Implementation of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Registration number 7261. Please vote. [[16:10:16]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes is being announced for consideration. Registration number 8031. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economy Ignashenko Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please, in three minutes. Prepare Philip Philipovich Budzigan from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u4	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The bill has been drafted to implement the final provisions of the Law on State Targeted Programmes. Let me remind you that this bill has created the right legal basis for development. preparation, development and execution of state-of-the-art targeted programmes. I would like to point out immediately that this bill has a technical nature and is mainly aimed at clarifying the terms in the current laws of Ukraine for types of state-of-the-art programmes and clarifying the powers of the State authorities to develop these programmes. In the process of work, 24 valid bills were defined and amended accordingly. Let me give you two examples. First. The Water Code of Ukraine, paragraph 3 of Article 7, “Competition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of water relations regulation”, replaces the word “State” with the word “national” and the corresponding publication on the knowledge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of water management refer to the approval of national and inter-State programmes, the use of water protection and the promotion of water resources. Another example. Article 6 of the Energy Conservation Act. There, in part one, the word “national” is replaced by the words “national targets”. That is to say, the term “state targets” now covers both state-wide programmes that are relevant to the competence of the Supreme Council and other programmes that are relevant to the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is proposed that the draft law be adopted in the first reading, taking into account those observations, that, according to the Scientific and Expert Council, appropriate changes should also be made to three additional laws: the theatre, the State Geological Service and the State Special Transport Service. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u5	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Philip Philipovich Budjigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u6	Honourable National MPs, the Committee on Economic Policy of October 11th, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes, registration number 8031. The bill is designed to amend 24 laws of Ukraine. These laws were listed. The following laws can be added: on the priorities of science and technology development, on the basic principles of social protection for workers and other senior citizens, on the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, and on the other, on the basis of the replacement of the notions of “republic programme”, “complex” and “target programme”, on the “national programme”, on the “target national programme”, on the “sector of programmes” on the notion of “national programme” and on the “national programme”. The same is true of the terminological apparatus of a number of laws in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Objective Programmes. The committee proposes to adopt the project as a basis and to take into account the proposals of the National Deputies, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a technical bill. Why don't we put it to a vote now? We're going to put it to a vote, we're going to take the basis of this document. No warning? A proposal by the Committee on Adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes. Registration number 8031, please vote. [[16:15:27]] For 277
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u8	Decision taken. Carmazine, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u9	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we did exactly what we voted to do, I did not insist on the speech in the discussion, but I ask that it be done in the transcript and that we now make changes to the Law, to this which will be adopted. The Ukrainian Theatre, Theatre, State Geological Service, State Special Transport Service, and others who go where they come out are on state-owned programs. Even where we took Chernobyl today. That is also what was said there. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I don't know why you didn't make a note today to the Deputy Minister, he asked the Head of the Supreme Council: "Mr. Chairman." These are two major differences according to the Constitution. We have the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like all the officials to know that this is the highest official in Parliament. And you have to say, "Mr. Head." And the chairman is a dear one from the depot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u10	Let us take into account this observation regarding the proposals regarding our colleague’s bill, and the committee will take them into account in the second reading. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax is under review. [[on disabled cars]] Reporter Jaroslav Vasilovich Suhi. Prepare Vitalia Homutinik. And we're going to vote right now. Offer it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, the bill is aimed at correcting social injustices against persons with disabilities who, according to legislation, are entitled to receive special cars. This injustice arose as a result of the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Change to the 2005 State Budget. First, as a result of the abolition of preferences under this law for domestic automobiles, the price for disabled cars has not only increased by 60-70 percent. On the average, “Tavria, ” which once cost 12,000, cost 19 - 20,000 dollars. Accordingly, the number of cars with disabilities has been reduced in the same proportion. The other one. These changes to the 2005 budget introduced a five - year moratorium on the value added tax. As a result, the cost of cars has increased by 20 percent, thus increasing the ability and ability to obtain cars to do so. Today, there are 120,000 disabled people in turn in Ukraine. It's 120,000 torments, 120,000 expectations. Because if this turn had been declining in previous years, it would have stopped and started to grow. For example. In recent years, more than 100 cars were disabled in Zaporezí region last year. This year, in 2005, only 52. The MPs, the mayors' deputies, contain, I'm sure, lots of letters, complaints and petitions: This is a way to get this car. Why did I write the bill? But because Kabin, in line with article 5 of the VAT Law, can exempt VAT from the supply of special items for disabled persons. Sure. But it ends in 2005, and there is no cost of gasification or of our investment commitments. Here's a letter from Kabmin. Instead of the Cabinet's ruling that disabled cars, churches, crutches should be included in the list of goods subject to taxation, it is written that the bill is not supported because it will make it more difficult to finance social programs at the right time. What else can be social programs besides the disability program by means of a means of transport? We have to adopt this bill in the first reading. And I urge everyone to accept this bill as a whole. It's made up of one sentence. Dear colleagues, let's give New Year's Eve, when you and I, for the first time in our years of independence, deprived children of children's New Year's gifts, let's give the disabled an opportunity or even hope of getting the cars they need in the coming year, or this year, because that's life for them. The cost of the law does not, on the contrary, allow for a reduction in the costs of government and local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u12	Yes, thank you. Jaroslav Vasilovich, please sit down. Vitaly Hometicnik, deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, I apologize, my head, the Committee on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 20 September 2005, reviewed the draft law. I want to confirm that the author, what the author pointed out, is that today the Cabinet has the right to do the Cabinet Order and to make a list of the goods to which the added value tax may be paid. But there is no such decision, so it is logical to support the author of this bill, Jaroslav Suhogo. In this bill, indeed, the only sentence that says that it should be exempt from the taxation of transactions in the supply of cars for persons with disabilities purchased at the expense of public and local budgets in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of public funds. So this perfectly logical bill and committee recommends that it be adopted in the first reading and in general, taking into account that it is an important bill and not a very big one. That is, we can make a decision in general and solve this problem by the new year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u14	Yes, dear colleagues, here they insist on discussion. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u15	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Zibenko. Dear colleagues! Honorable citizens of Ukraine! The bill that we are considering with you now refers to the bill of the most socially acute. Indeed, we have tens of thousands of our citizens with disabilities in line to get a car at a state expense. And this problem, unfortunately, does not go down, and it gets worse every day. If the pace offered to resolve the problem through the corresponding section of the State Budget of Ukraine solves the problem, it will be extended for decades. As an example, for example, the Ukrainian State Budget project, which was submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council on September 15, 2005, provided 60 million dollars for this purpose. Well, I don't think there's a figure. But on the other hand, if this figure is divided into the actual cost of one car, it turns out that for a year, across Ukraine, as many as 3,100 cars, of course, it is a drop that does not solve the problem. In the process of preparing the document for second reading, the committee’s efforts and the efforts of other interested persons have succeeded, let’s say, in a third increase and, nevertheless, this does not even solve the problem. So one way to remove the acuteness of this problem is, indeed, to pay a certain tax on added value. This will allow the same costs to buy a slightly higher number of cars and thus remove the severity of the problem. Once again, I would like to point out that this problem is one of the most acute social problems. Moreover, I would like to support, as head of the committee, as a Communist MP, I would like to support the proposal that we accept this small document today, indeed, it is one sentence, not only in the first reading, but we have supported the whole, especially considering that the problem really requires extremely serious attention. I would like to conclude by saying that the Communist faction will necessarily support this document, and more importantly, we will be looking for other sources to speed up the process of solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u16	Andrew School, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't think it's worth even discussing this bill long enough. We need backup. Because there are things that really need to be done. When we talk about the rapid or accelerated movement of states. Flight. ‘ It must be remembered that during this movement, people who cannot move themselves cannot be destroyed. Therefore, they need to be helped in a direct and figurative way. In general, I think that, given that there were not enough things in the budget that were voted today with such success by twenty-six votes, I think that this and the support of the bill will give an opportunity, I don't say solve, but at least start to solve the problem of road transport for people with disabilities. So I think it's a faction, and I think most of the people's MPs in Parliament will support this bill. In general, I would like to point out that the problem of people with disabilities has begun to be resolved by the past government and that there should be a special program that will not only address issues such as those that arise on a permanent or periodic basis. But such long - term issues as the teaching of children with disabilities in ordinary schools are common. It doesn't take much. To that end, it is only necessary to resolve the issue of access to ordinary schools, schools, and schools of people with disabilities, children with disabilities. This is not so problematic. I'd say it costs a lot of money, so it's not a lot of money, especially when it comes to new schools. And the construction of existing schools, especially in cities. Here you have to propose a scheme to adopt these kids into society. This benefits only children who learn and who, teachers who teach, because in principle we talk about equality of opportunity in society. Then we must create this equality. I would say that this bill does not normally solve the issue of equality of all socially unprotected and protected people in society, but it does allow for a start. So this is the beginning of justice, and justice must be the main component of the future Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u18	Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich, to the rostrum. Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, there are two aspects to this question. The first aspect is that, for a long time, there are no legislative requirements for the provision of disabled cars, including disabled persons and wars, and disabled persons as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, as well as for the sale of cars on the extended condition of disabled persons from general illness. From childhood, parents, or relatives of children with disabilities. It's also very important. So why the two questions? On the one hand, the government that resigned proposed amendments to the 2005 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, which introduced a five-year moratorium on granting new and expanding existing benefits. Maybe someone forgot that, the State Budget Act for one year, in five years everyone was banned from taking other things for benefits. And that's probably why these forces didn't vote in favour of Ukraine's state budget for this year, that's understandable. But perhaps if we talk about responsibility, about conscience, that's the first thing that was missing from the forces that did it. So, feeling that we don't have to have a deficit in human conscience and compassion for these people, and implementing our own laws that are actually illegally stopped, I'd like Minfin to let everyone else understand that, yes, formally, we have to anticipate in the budget. We accepted the budget today. Changes are now difficult to accept. But let's think about how the government of Yanukovic drove cars for the IMF. What did VAT pay? What Did the Customs Pay? A government decree was taken, and then Mrs. Timoshenko gave it to whom? The governors and so on and so forth. This means 100 grand worth of fancy cars. That's what I'm talking about. So this is today the question that the implementation of those cars would be removed from the government. But Suhi did not write one — the car of domestic production. And this has to be written down, this has to be written down. It's different. It's important. Otherwise, we're not stimulating our production. So, dear friends, please remember how many others we have lost in the budget. And the fact that this turn is moving very slowly today, and people are always asking for the help of MPs, says that you need to adopt the law in the first reading and continue to look for sources of funding to do so. And without a budget committee, we won't be able to accept it. That's why I'm a first-reader. But let us make the changes that are required in parallel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u20	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u21	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Head, fellows! It is usually difficult for a person, relatively healthy physically, to imagine a disabled person for a moment. Yet, regardless of the causes of disability, they generally do not give in to the rest of mankind. Instead, such citizens are often able to organize their existence far more interesting and richer than those who are physically healthy. For the time being, the indicator, if figuratively speaking, is such a lactus paper, a kind of humane and humanity test, which is exactly how society as a whole treats people with disabilities. The worse the attitude is, the more tragic the disability is with all the negatives going on in a row. Such phenomena are usually exacerbated in a society divided by strife, poverty, envy. And so the way people are treated with physical disabilities in the country, I don't think there's much need. And the fact that these citizens are grouped into an organization has no merit of a state that is constitutionally obliged to provide them with high standards of living rather than to buy once a year from these once-in-a-lifetime taxes, leaving them alone for the next year with their misery. And if the state does not have the capacity today to provide this category of citizens with the most necessary, what prevents the public from starting to create such an atmosphere in society, if people with disabilities have the chance to realize themselves in some direction of socially important activity and their work and abilities have been questioned in society. In addition, the faction of the People’s Party of Lithuania warns all who are willing to resort to shameful speculation, which invariably attacks individual politicians from election to election on the problems of disabled persons and people with disabilities, pensioners, and other categories of citizens in need of social care. Instead, the State needs a general concept of humanizing the treatment of people with disabilities as a standard of day, a standard of proof of a certain degree of development of Ukrainian society. The Lithuanian National Party faction asks a colleague to support the bill in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u22	Dear National Deputies, the discussion of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax for Disabled Vehicles has been completed. A proposal for a first adoption committee is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Wheels for Persons with Disabilities. Registration number 7682. Please vote. [[16:34:20]] For 274 Decision taken. I am voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt an entire draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Wheels for Persons with Disabilities. Registration number 7682. Please vote. Yes, yes, with the correction of Yuri Carmazin, with the refinement of Yuri Carmazin. [[16:34:52]] For 294 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, registration number 6277, is being announced for consideration. [[on the terms and conditions of the staff]] The reporter is Mikola Petrovich Kruglov. Prepare Alexander Stoyan. Please, briefly, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple. It's aimed at protecting the freed workers. The essence of this law is that a person who is released should receive a written notice of how much his employer will pay him. That's the first one. And the second. Law enforcement is an injustice. If a person is released and is not working anywhere, he is delayed from paying his salary to an old employer, he is not living, he does not have his wages, he waits for the employer to give him. If he himself has been hired for another job, his old job compensation is reduced to the same salary he received from a new place. This is nonsense at all. So these two amendments -- two sentences in practice -- are amendments to the Labour Code. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u24	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Committee position. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please, from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u25	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” Party. Dear colleagues, the committee supports this proposal for this reason. Today, indeed, according to article 116, part one, it is stipulated that when a worker is released, he must pay the full salary he owes, or on the first day, if he is not present, on the second day. But according to article 117 of the Labour Code, there is a provision: If an employee goes to a different place of employment, then when he receives a salary, his compensation is reduced to the size of that salary. Thus, we are looking at the possibility today that the employer should not count with the worker on time and wait for this person to get to work. And then reduce the compensation for that amount. Thus, we, the committee, propose to support the authors' proposals in order to cancel Article 117 of the Labour Code first and to introduce a position that the employer is obliged to pay the full sum of the employee who has been fired. Please support this bill. I will point out that it will also be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's expert department and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u26	Honorable national MPs, if there is no objection, may we put this decision to the vote and take it? No warning? I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Code on the conditions of reckoning with employees. Registration number 6277. Please vote. [[16:38:30.]] For 285 Decision taken. Considering that he is neither great nor unwarranted, can he accept as his Law? I am voting on this proposal for the adoption of the draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, on the conditions of reckoning with employees as a law, i.e. in general. Registration number 6277. Please vote. [[16:39:08]] For-300 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, two factions: the faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine, the faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” requires a break of 30 minutes. [[united]] Why don't you make your application now? Who will act? Misur's national MP, please. Let's keep working at the work pace okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I can't. Vadim Misyur, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Dear colleagues, I can't help but focus your attention on the violations that are of a mass nature in the formation of territorial election committees in the local elections. I have been approached by alarming signals from Odessk, Lugansk, Chernigivsk, Zakarpatsk, and Zacarpathian regions regarding the creation of artificial obstacles in the submission of candidates to the territorial election committees. Officials and officials of the local councils refuse to accept documents from party representatives and a formed political party block on intended grounds. Motivations come in different ways. They require the registration of the CTC block, the sealing of the block, and other illegal items. The provisions of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies and article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads. Convinced, all of this is to make it impossible to form election committees with the participation of party representatives and constituencies. The establishment of territorial electoral commissions is planned with the use of administrative resources. The parties can only apply to the TVC until December 20, 2005. Artificially, the situation is created by dragging the formation of electoral committees personally into the heads of appropriate councils. The law that was brought back by the President today with regard to the amendments to the Local Elections Act could provide for the warning of the factions that arise in the formation of the territorial election committees in the local elections. But that didn't happen. The principle of the direct will of citizens will be violated. Such actions would distort the outcome of the elections, violate Ukrainian citizens’ rights to fair and impartial local elections. So we need to get back to the question of the continuation of the deadlines for the submission of candidates to the TVC by conducting an analogy with the procedure for the formation of district election committees in the election of the national MPs. And there, you know, you can do that 60 days before the election. I ask you, your honor, all those who represent political parties and political blocs to make it impossible to interfere with the administrative resources in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 7375, has been announced for consideration. [[on the first-line payment of salaries]] Reporter Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Get ready from the Committee of Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, on instructions from the faction of the Ukraine Party, I have submitted this bill to the Supreme Council for the following reasons. The first, as early as 21 October 2004, we adopted a law “On amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure the timeliness of payment of wages”, which determined that the pay of workers was made as a matter of priority. Regrettably, the law still doesn't work today. In 2005, the current arrears not only decreased but increased significantly. The Second, the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, failed to comply with the final provisions of the Act and failed to provide a mechanism for the implementation of the Act. That is why we have the situation that has taken place today. Thirdly, the failure to pay is a gross violation of many articles of the Ukrainian Constitution, including guarantees of timely and decent pay. The fourth, the late payment of wages, the delay of months, the salary, which is the only source of people's existence on behalf of whom we keep speaking here, is a crime, an offence, an offence, if you will, of private property of citizens to whom wages are actually paid, which, by the way, is also a violation of the Constitution, which states that private property is inviolable. Fifth, free work is actually a manifestation of slavery, which is unacceptable not only in a European country but also in an African country. What do I suggest? To establish an effective mechanism for the implementation of the law we have adopted in October 2004 and to eliminate at least one disgraceful social phenomenon in Ukraine. I propose that the rules that impede the implementation of this law be removed, in particular paragraph 8.1.2 of the Law on the Income Tax, which removes obstacles for banks to adopt payroll payment documents as a matter of priority. Second. Part three of article 1066 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, after the words “to its own discretion in the management of money”, will be supplemented by the words “except for the provision of insurance for the timely payment of salaries, taxes and contributions to public social insurance”. And third. In article 7 of the Collective Contracts Act, the provision for payment of wages is made as a matter of priority so that all other payments are made after the fulfilment of the obligations of pay. These changes will establish a mechanism for implementing the Priority Wages Act. People are waiting for us to make this decision. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the bill, and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour unanimously supports the bill. Therefore, I also ask you to make a convincing decision that will address one of the very important social problems of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u30	Alexander Mikolayovich Stoyan of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u31	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? The point is that as early as October of last year, we passed a law that provides for the payment of work in the first order. This is consistent with the ILO Convention. But what has been accomplished in practice? And in practice, because there is no financial, criminal responsibility, employers apply the pay not to the first order but to the second order. That is why Vasil Georgievich Hara proposed a bill that reinforces the responsibility of a material, criminal, administrative, first-time pay. The bill also provides for an obligation to make a collective agreement to provide for this in a collective agreement between employers and trade unions. I'll point out, my dear colleagues, that this law does not entail any additional financial costs, but it will contribute to the fact that the person who worked the month has the right to pay first. I have two letters signed by the National Forum of Ukrainian Trade Unions, the head of Yakibchuk Miroslav, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, the first Deputy Kosovo to ask for support of this bill. There is a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, more faithfully, a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers, which also supports this bill. So we ask the committee to support this bill, which will contribute to the first-time payment of wages to people who have worked full-time at the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, shall we speak, or shall we vote for it? Bondarchuk insists. Please, Alexander Bondarczuk, the Communist faction. Get ready for Volinka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u33	Dear President! People's deputies! The Communist faction will support the proposed bill, we will vote in favour. But I would not like our radio listeners to feel that, by making these amendments to the legislation now, we are quick to resolve all problems. I note that so far there is both administrative and criminal responsibility of employers for late payment of wages. And yet, so far, we have massive violations of these norms. What is it? Is there a lack of any additional rules or an increase in the liability for their violation? No, I guess not. The fact is that today the courts of capitalism are known to be buying everything, selling everything, and also being goods. Therefore, no court generally applies the Criminal Code against employers, and to date, up to three years in prison have been held liable for the fact that wages have been repeatedly violated. Fighting the nature of capitalism, the very essence of which is the non-payment of wages, the limitation of that wage, is very difficult. That is why I would also like to address trade union workers. That's right, we'll support this initiative. The proposal to fight for the rights of workers under capitalism, but to understand that the right of workers under capitalism will not be achieved until the end. This capitalism must be destroyed. The only way to do this is with the communists. I therefore call on trade unions to support the Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u34	Mikhail Volintz, please. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u35	Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow radio listeners! The issue of repayment of arrears on wages continues to be relevant today. Although the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law in 2004 that gave priority to paying employees, the situation did not improve much, the law did not actually work. The author gives an example of debt in the Donetsk region in an explanatory note. But the situation is not better in other regions. You're a blank paradoxical painting where the legislative base seems to be, and the rights of employees remain unprotected. It is immediately concluded that the level of responsibility of employers who are expected to fail to pay their wages or to break their dues is not high enough. Therefore, it is worth agreeing with the author of the bill, in view of the situation that has arisen, it is really necessary to increase the level of responsibility for not paying or violating pay terms. Perhaps this will help to protect the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u36	Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please have your right to speak. Mikola Shershun will be out after Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! I wish you wouldn't be intimidated because I'm going to go against this project. And now I'm going to explain to everyone why you can't do that. First. This project proposes to make changes and write down to make it necessary to define in this contract the obligation to pay the work, but it is the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure timely payment of wages, which you and I have adopted not too long ago, October 21, 2004, which clearly states that pay is paid in the first place before all other payments are made. Why are we knocking in the open door? We don't know the law, it's one thing, but then let's not do anything stupid. Now changes to article 175 of the Criminal Code. First. Professionals should intervene in the Criminal Code. What's going on? The Criminal Code, when it was adopted, in 2001, you and I gave up applying the administrative judiciary at all, that is, attracting criminal responsibility, if we had previously been drawn to administrative responsibility, which we had been very widely represented in the old codex. Now the fact that we're re-improaching, it's only possible to say that this is already a more difficult, more serious administrative offense and everything. And so if it's written here in the project, if, over the course of a year, administrative engagement has already been implemented, it's a criminal offence, it's completely unserious, it's pointless and it's inappropriate. Next. I also want to tell you that in the second part of article 175, the addition is that: and in the failure to pay a worker in the first place, because the Pay for Work Act says that the pay of employees is done in the first order. [[Article 15]] All the other payments after that. Next. I would like you to note that the project proposes to increase the duration of corrective work for the execution of article 175 of the Criminal Code to three years. But article 57, part one of the general criminal code, does not have three years of correctional work at all, but is only six to two years old. It's also a methodological error, and a very important mistake, I would say so. And I thank the scientific expertise that suggested that the bill should be rejected as a result of the consideration. He is one who should be rejected because he is absolutely legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u38	Mikola Sherschun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u39	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! As we observe the course of life in Ukraine and the condition of our citizens, we feel that we are living in a strange mirror in a way that is inadequate to the situation. We have everything: beautiful black lands, a large amount of natural resources, a favourable geopolitical situation, there are working and wise people in the country, there are highly educated government officials. However, every "little Ukrainian" is living, as our distinguished President Yushchenko has said, is not easy and not sweet at all. For the time being, almost every political power before the small elections will not be shaken by the streams of love for the people and the promises of a fine life. And all would be well if only, as national wisdom says, the chariot did not remain there today. As the “little Ukrainians” lived badly, so did they, because all the mass of legislative acts that have been made in Ukraine and aimed at improving life are often simply not working. For example, we do not need to go far. Take, for example, the problem of paying wages to bankrupt workers. The question is whether or not 90 percent is already regulated by legislation. The law seems to protect the interests of the workers in question, but that doesn't change their position, because usually the employees of these enterprises are the last ones, despite all the legislation, as well as the moral side of the situation. This means that often-released workers receive not only the anticipated exemptions from the enterprise's management initiative, but also the wages paid in blood. After all, money is usually limited to creditors, tax collectors, other organizations and services, by the word state. And the “little Ukrainian” is left except for the roots, as in the famous fairy tale. Consider how to improve the situation, especially in the country’s area. To my deep conviction and with this solidarity my party colleagues and the People's Block of Lithuania first have to do, it is to form conditions under which a “little Ukrainian” should become a real Ukrainian, that is, a master not only of his own destiny, but also of the state. And officials who were temporarily hired by the people to do their work are said to know their place. Then a perfectly decent legislative base in Ukraine will work really well. Based on what has been said, the faction of the People's Party considers it appropriate to support the idea set out in this bill. We propose to support the bill in the first reading with its further revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Puts the vote to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, we have a draft decree on the inadmissibility of this bill. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna. Please turn on the microphone. Lilia Stepanovna Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u41	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In general, the proposed Law on Amendments to Legislative Acts, some legislative acts in Ukraine deserve attention. And the faction “Our Ukraine” is ready to support them. But in that case, if a dangerous rule is removed from the bill, the adoption of which could put at risk the income portion of the local budgets, namely education, the district hospitals, the FAP. It is a dangerous paragraph two, which is proposed to exclude paragraph 8.1.2 of article 8.1.2 of this Law: a tax on the income of natural persons, as well as payment to the tax budget of the accrued but not paid by the payer of the income tax within the prescribed monthly period of the law. [[on the recalculation of tax to the budget at the time of payment of taxed income by the single payment document]] This essentially destroys local budgets. Reporting, Vasil Grigorovich Hara discussed the exclusion of this item. I'd like for the voters, for the deputies and for the stenographer to confirm once again that this item is being excluded, otherwise, in order to do better, we'll just destroy the local budgets. That is why this regulation is valid if the item is not excluded. I'm asking the reporter to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u42	Please turn on Harry's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, of course, can agree with my colleague who has just spoken. But what I'm saying is that this is the norm that's in the law today, it's not working. The law provides for the removal of taxes on the income of natural persons, together with the payment of wages. But taxes are paid and wages are not paid. It is therefore proposed that a rule allowing banks to adopt, first of all, wages and then, immediately thereafter, the payment of all taxes. I don't mind the budgeters getting paid. Our committee is struggling to introduce a tariff network and others. But isn't it, I don't even know what kind of soft word to pick out is normal when someone who works at a company earns and doesn't get paid, but puts that money into the budget? Budgeters receive money and those who work at the firm do not receive the funds that they earn. That's why I think we're today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, we're now talking about unacceptableness, and then we're going to continue to figure it out. I am voting on a proposal in the form of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of paragraph 2 of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine, author Liliy Grigorović. [[17:00:55]] For-66 Lily Stepanovna's offer is not supported. A proposal for adoption by the Committee is submitted to the vote on the basis of the draft Act on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-line payment of wages, registration number 7375. Please vote. [[17:01:29]] For 218. The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? Who wants to go back to the draft Law 7375? Please vote. [[17:01:54]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 47, Communists – 55, National Party – 36, “Our Ukraine” – 1st Block Timoshenko – 11, SPI – 17, National Block – 13, SDPU(o) - 15, Ukrainian National Party – 6, “Trust of the People” – 6, Ukrainian National Movement – 0, “Ukrainian One” – 3, “Reforms and Orders”, “Industry and Entrepreneurs” – 0, non-fractional – 6. The bill is thus rejected. A draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the management of stock companies]] Registration number 5594. Michael Crutz's reporter. Please. To be prepared by the committee, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak is. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u45	Mikola Krutz, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You will be presented with the draft Ukrainian Law “To Amend the Civil Code of Ukraine”. The project aims to remedy the shortcomings of legislative regulation in the formation, conversion and elimination of executive shareholders. The need for such clarification is due to a vague interpretation in practice of the second part of article 159 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which makes it unclear to refer to a collegiate or single executive body. Such ambiguity can be seen as evidenced by practice, and it has already created many challenges in the functioning and management of stockholder societies. One such problem is the exclusion from the exercise of authority and the dismissal of a member of the executive body who abuses authorized actions or omissions violates the rights of shareholders and harms society. According to some interpretation of the two parts of the second section of article 159 of the Civil Code, only general shareholders can release such a member to the executive body of the association or take other measures to stop the improper performance of their duties, and note what should be called only in the 45-day period. So such a member of the executive body may continue to be in his or her status and act against the interests of shareholders and associations that cannot be deemed admissible in terms of the interests of shareholders and associations. The project is called upon to change the above situation, to limit the mandate for the appointment and release of members of the executive bodies of the association between the general shareholders and the Supervisory Board of the Society, to allow the Supervisory Board to act expeditiously, underlining, to deal promptly with the issue of ensuring the proper management of the company and to take steps to prevent adverse consequences for shareholders and associations as a result of the improper exercise of its powers by members of the executive body before addressing the issue of the general shareholders’ meetings. The adoption of this bill will increase the efficiency of shareholder management, so it will increase the results of its activities and thus contribute to the filling of the budget. So please accept this bill in the first reading and, if possible, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u46	Yes, now the position of the committee on this matter. Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, you have listened to the content of this bill. The Legal Policy Committee believes that these proposals deserve to be taken into account in view of the fact that the actions of a member of an executive shareholder’s body or the inaction of such a member of a company, an executive body of the association, can be harmful to individual shareholders or to the entire association and that it is necessary to respond promptly to such actions or to the inaction of a member of the shareholder’s management. It is intended to amend articles 159, 160, 161 of the Civil Code, providing for the possibility of granting the Supervisory Board the right of exclusion from the exercise of the powers of a member of the executive body who violates the rights of shareholders or associations and the general assembly to grant the right to appeal to a member of the Supervisory Board. In other words, there's no, in principle, question of delimiting powers by appointment and dismissal, and it's only a matter of temporary suspension, and then, by the way, by the way, the Scientific and Experimental Authority is making a proposal, I think it's right to assemble immediately the outside congregations of societies that will make the final decision on such a member of the governing body of society. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Policy concluded that it was necessary to support the bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u48	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, we will vote. This is where they insist. Bondarczuk, please, Alexander, the Communist faction, prepare Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u49	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear President, the People's Deputies! You can understand the developers, on the one hand, that in practice there is often a situation where the congregation cannot be gathered for a long time, for some reason the executive body ceases to work, whether they have become ill, whether people have disappeared at all. In this situation, it would be good to give the Supervisory Board, the Monitoring Board the authority, change the executive branch or, in fact, terminate its mandate. But there's a twisting side to the medal. You understand that if we support this bill now, we put the executive organs of the CEO's shareholders in a position where it becomes entirely dependent on the Monitoring Board. Thus, it will be possible to manipulate the Executive Body by the Monitoring Board, so that we are in fact very close to the authority of the General Assembly. The General Assembly shall elect an executive body. You've just been chosen, here's the Supervisory Board overturned this decision and is actually starting to pursue some kind of policy. With regard to the proposal to finalize the bill with a view to granting or imposing such a mandatory rule that, if the decision of the Watch Council has terminated the powers of the executive authority, a general meeting of shareholders is to be convened immediately, so to the present day no one of the Watch Tower Council and prohibits the gathering of a general meeting at any time and the consideration of the situation surrounding the executive bodies. The Communist faction will vote against this law because we see here a violation of the rights of the shareholders of the general assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u50	Andrew School, please. Will it? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, please. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to say that I'm going to stand up for the adoption of this law in the first reading, that's the first. But it can't be accepted as a whole. I'll tell you why. First. It is absolutely appropriate to amend the Civil Code, according to which the exclusive competence of the general congregation of shareholders will include the election and withdrawal of members of the Supervisory Board, as well as the formation, conversion, or liquidation of the executive, other organs, societies. But the question arises: Whom should we defend by adopting a loving law? We need to protect a shareholder, a private citizen's rights. How do we protect this citizen? If the issue of the insolvency of society arises, if we see that someone is dishonest in the executive body, how will the rights of that person be protected? If, in fact, we are able to foresee in the charter that it is not necessary to ask these people, the Supervisory Board will decide. So I'm convinced that the option that proposed the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and it suggested that this would be a compromise, would make, supplement and amend, in addition to the amendments to article 160 of the Civil Code, further complement the amendments to part five of article 159 of the Civil Code, where it is necessary to write that it is mandatory to convene non-commissioned shareholders' assemblies. The following is proposed: “An orderly meeting of shareholders shall be convened in the event of the insolvency of the association, the removal of the Supervisory Board from the exercise of the powers of a member of the executive body, as well as under the circumstances set out in the statute of association and in any other case, if the interests of the shareholders as a whole so require.” In my opinion, that would protect the interests of both. shareholders, private citizens of Ukraine, most of whom are today, and who are not protected at all. And then I think that the adoption of these changes, and I want to thank both the people's deputy Krutz and Matvienkov for initiating these changes, will ensure a more effective management of this society, but with the changes that I've been talking about right now, it will also give each shareholder the right to control, including the council that he chooses. And then it's going to be the essence of our legislation -- the care of each individual man. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u52	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u53	Oleg Zarubinsky, National Block of Lithuania Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! This is the 15th year we've been trying to build a rich Ukraine. Sadly, it did not become for all but for the chosen ones. Few, scientific, social education, cultural, in fact, are all the nonprofit areas that the state naturally has and is obliged to care for are at the brink of survival. We're told it's simple enough, the state's execution lacks funds. The conclusion is even simpler. Unfortunately, the state in the face of officials is not an effective host. The inefficiency of farming is the unwillingness or insurmountability to defend the interests of the state in enterprises, not the state as the shareholder. Over the years, Ukraine’s budget has not received significant dividends paid by shareholders, including state - owned ones. In addition, my fellow countrymen, I am sure that most Ukrainian citizens have never, in particular, paid any attention to the fact that they are, as a nation, an intermediation of the state and are shareholders of a number of enterprises. So the faction of the People's Party insists that in the area of asset management the state as a shareholder of a large number of enterprises be ordered. We suggest, first, that we officially publish in the near future information on which enterprises the state is a single owner or shareholder and how many shares it owns in each enterprise. Secondly, to initiate an annual and even more quarterly report to the actual owner - the people - on the level of financial revenues received from each enterprise, where the State is a shareholder or one-person owner. Finally, in this context, we are ready to support the proposed bill, but insisting that comments be taken into account. Good points made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. In any event, the adoption of the bill will allow for more effective management by shareholders, primarily by the general meeting of shareholders, since the bill deals more closely with the issue of selection, transformation, liquidation of executive and other bodies of society, referring to the competence of the general congregations of societies. And finally, what I'm saying is that a large-scale process of raising citizens' awareness of the characteristics of the economic sphere in the state is a real scale that can make the economy more transparent and therefore more efficient. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u54	John the Rabbit. None. Mikola Onichtuk. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u55	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Mikola Onichuk, a faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs It is natural that this bill deserves support, at least when it comes to voting in the first reading, since its main ideology is to strengthen the influence of owners on the management of a business or other business entity, including the activities of executive organs of society, or those employed for the purpose of managing a business entity. Obviously, in view of this situation, the bill is worth supporting. And in the following work, a number of comments that were made by colleagues -- national MPs -- can and should be taken into account. So I would like to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act on Amendments to the Civil Code for the Management of Associations of Shareholders has been completed. A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code for the Management of Shareholders. Registration number 5594. Please vote. [[17:18:39]] For 185 The decision is not taken. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u57	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I don't really understand the logic of those MPs who today, speaking, tried to protect and talk about the owners who spoke about the labour groups, what their degree of influence should be, do not vote in favour of this law. Today, the correct truths are understood by all: the main mechanism for the transfer of property is the bankruptcy process. This process has resulted in two thirds of the property transfers in Ukraine. This law is a mechanism of shelter, at least an elementary shelter, to order and transfer all ownership or ownership to shareholders' meetings. To move away from the privatization process of posts or posts. After all, we know that today, by privatizing a chair or a chair, financial flows are being redistributed and then held in the pocket. And then we talk about how we make compulsory wage payments, we pass laws. What's to be said is that money doesn't pay and so on, and so on, with the, the, the, the, the, the, the, I mean, the money. So once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's go back and see, this is really the law we need today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a proposal that has just spoken about the return to the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code on the Management of Shareholders. Registration number 5594, please vote. [[17:20:28]] For 235 We've come back to looking at this project again. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act “On Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine for the Management of Shareholder Associations”. Registration number 5594. Please vote. [[17:21:01]] For the 250. Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Act on the Status of Judges of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[guaranteeing the independence of judges]] Leonid Chernewicki, please. Get ready for Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u59	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, those who listen to us. Christian Liberal Party, Our Ukraine faction, Leonid Chernovetski. I want to tell you that, you may know, by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 01.12.2004 in the case of the constitutional submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the official interpretation of the provisions of the provisions of the first, second, article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, a valid revision of part two of article 13 of the Law on the Status of Judges is recognized as being contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. What is it? The point is that today we only align ourselves with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which should have been implemented in this way, the question of the independence of the judges of Ukraine in the decision-making process. I will tell you that, of course, in 1999, when the legislators of the Public Prosecutor's Office made the opposite decision, they said that there were so many corrupt judges that we simply failed to deliver them all. They're getting bigger, I guess. That's not the problem right now. The problem is that there are decent judges. The problem is that corruption in the courts today is not in the plane that I propose to decide today, but only in the election of judges. As soon as we adopt the law, my legislative initiative is ready, that the people by direct vote will elect judges, as well as members of the people, there will be no squabble in the judicial system. The courts will address matters not for the benefit of specific officers but for the benefit of citizens. You don't decide for the benefit of a specific pensioner, he's serving in a referendum right now, and you're being kicked out of there like a dog. It is today that we decide that the courts, the judges, should be able to decide and count on our support. So that through the Supreme Council, the whole country knows how many cases of corruption we have, in principle, such as Judge Vasilko in the city of Kiev, who has decided to bring the former President of Ukraine to justice. There are those who need our protection. Please. First, this issue is not to be discussed, as it has already been decided by the Constitutional Court. If we are in the legal power, let us support this decision. Well, I'll tell you, of course, faster to pass a law on the election of judges than the Supreme Court, which can go on for life. I'm very grateful that you listened to me, and I remind everyone who listened to our broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u60	Yes. Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legal Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u61	The honourable head, the honourable people's deputies, the honourable citizens of Ukraine, the honourable judges, it's good that there are legislative initiatives, even perhaps debateable ones, which are intended to strengthen the level of guarantees of the independence and integrity of the judges. In particular, I have the honour to report now on a bill that provides for additional guarantees of the independence and integrity of the judges, according to which a criminal case is committed. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. With regard to the judges of the Constitutional Court and any court of general jurisdiction, only the Attorney-General of Ukraine or his deputies may be violated. Since the work of judges is to verify the correctness of decisions taken by executive authorities, law enforcement authorities, by the way, whose competence is to determine the criminal or administrative responsibility of citizens. The problem is that today, it's no surprise, but the district attorney's office is investigating a criminal case against a judge regardless of the level of that judge. By the way, even for lawyers to file a criminal case against a lawyer, it is necessary for the District Attorney to make a decision on this matter. So we even put the other judges on trial. And so it's no coincidence that the Committee on Legal Policy, in its decision and the General Legal and Scientific Administration, is proposing a bill, which in this case is presented by me, to support and vote on it as a basis and as a whole as a law. With regard to the bill of our colleague Leonid Mikhailovich Černovecki, it is natural, giving due consideration to his concern about the situation that has arisen today in the administration of justice, to note that the current Constitution of Ukraine already has sufficient guarantees for the independence of judges, in particular article 126, she points out that the judge cannot be detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the sentencing of the court. But when it comes to a criminal case against a judge in particular, the law enforcement authorities and, in particular, the prosecutor’s office have jurisdiction, have the right to bring a criminal case, including an appropriate case, an indictment against a judge. At the same time, once again, the Constitution states that arrest or detention of a judge is possible only with the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When it comes to a proposal for an equalization of the status of a judge to a national MP who can not only be detained or in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u62	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u63	Since it is a matter of comparing the status of a judge to the status of a national MP, it may be appropriate. But it is necessary to make changes to the Constitution itself, since it clearly defines the boundaries of the judges. Thank you very much. So, your honorary colleagues, once again, the committee is proposing a draft of the Czernovetsk bill, and this is in line with the position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. To reject, and the Bill of Onichuk Mikli Vasilovich to approve as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will also report on behalf of the Committee's position. So that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u64	Mikola Vasilovich, I'll explain. Leonid Mihajlovich, Mikola Vasilovich, was the author of the draft alternative bill while acting as a representative of the committee. So he was able to perform twice as much. Yeah. I explain that Mikola Vasilovich acted as the author of the draft alternative law. And at the same time as a committee representative. Let's talk about it, shall we? Okay, two in, two in. Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u65	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, dear voters! Today, independence and proper functioning of the judicial system and respect for the rule of law are a major problem in Ukraine. The pressure on the courts continues, and such facts are now far greater than those of Kuchma’s reign. Why so? First of all, because judicial reform is being halted in a number of directions today. First of all, the guilty state, the lack of funding for our Ukrainian justice. Today, 42 percent of the funding of the judicial system is allocated. Let us be honest before ourselves. Cheap justice is never fair. And in that, dear fellows, we must be convinced. The left hand hand of the citizens, our electorate, belongs precisely to the injustice of the judgments of the courts, to the corruption of our modern judicial system. Today we can welcome the decision on the future increase in the salaries of judges three times promised by the President, but it is necessary to properly fund the other needs of the courts from the budget, and by no means to allow the financing of Ukrainian courts by so-called sponsors. You understand well that the courts will then work for these sponsors, and today the state itself will cause this court to do so. And another moment, which I think is very important. The courts should be financed only from the state budget. Because today funding is under the full control of executive power. And it's very clear that whoever pays orders music. I do not want to cast a shadow on the thousands of honest judges who honor their duty to the people of Ukraine. The laws adopted by the Supreme Council allow them today to work within the laws of Ukraine, to protect the rights and freedoms of citizens. So after a careful study of both draft laws, I do not see the need for them in principle. Which is not yet enough to guarantee the independence of our judges. The project proposes to ban judges from being prosecuted and taken into custody without the consent of the Supreme Council. Oil butter. Part three of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that a judge may not be detained or arrested for sentencing without the consent of the Supreme Council. We, the Communist faction, do not see the need to vote for this project. Let's not look for any new designed aids to improve the work of Ukrainian judges, but let's just create the necessary conditions for productive work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u66	Andrew School, please. Your right to speak. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u67	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Of course, I would like to polish with the previous speaker about what the judges need. Judges need everything, starting with the court's premises, completing with paper and pens that have to be used to bring justice, because all of this has to be provided to the full by the state, the administrations and the judicial administrations that are created, who are supposed to work and provide for it. When it comes to the above-mentioned bills that we are discussing here, the motivation is simple -- to file a criminal case against a judge, to be held accountable, to be detained -- is another article that is prescribed by the Constitution. And using this as a means of pressure on a judge, you can, and that's why it would be worth the right that exists, to the great regret, so far in a court of law, to eliminate it. Why? Because, in principle, a dependent judge is what's so often criticized here, in the walls of Parliament; that's what the entire minister of justice, who calls the courts selling, does. Thus, his knowledge has a large part of the control functions of these courts. Please influence, and do not blame, in general, tens of thousands of people who carry out their duties honestly. And in general, when the fundamental norm of democracy is undermined is independent justice, any way is appropriate. Even if, as it was said here, butter is oil, it is better to use a saying that butter will not spoil the mess. Let's add butter and we'll have at least a hint of honesty. Because we can now discuss many questions of good judges with us, qualified. Whichever they are, I want to say one thing that anyone who is present in the room right now, is in the courtroom, can clearly understand what conditions the judges are working under. So I think it's worth supporting the bill. I believe that under the circumstances, let's say, we can improve the situation, and of course there's never a limit to improvement, but there's a limit beyond which there can't be. can't do justice. And this line would have to go long ago, you have to say clearly and frankly that it's very good, that the pay goes up to the judges, only very bad, that the salary goes up to the judges of the Supreme Court, and not the salary goes up to the judges of the district courts. A. was built by the government of Tymoshenko, a proportional pay raise system, and we need to stick to it now. Then we will have judges who are just and who will act in a fine way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u68	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u69	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, I would like to divide the two Bills 7042 and 7042-1 that have now been reported by our colleagues. Because with badge one, the bill. I support his acceptance in the first reading and in general, because he is very brief and he provides that a criminal case against judges may be violated solely by the Attorney-General of Ukraine or his deputies. This is in line with the spirit of the Constitution and the letter of the law, for the independence of judges is an integral part of their status. It is an element of this status and is not a privilege, but it has a public legal mandate to ensure that justice is exercised by an impartial and fair court, as recorded in the decision of the Constitutional Court of December 1, 2004. But, of course, it's not the judges who aren't being held accountable as an exception, because, for some political reasons, even the new Attorney General does not violate the criminal case for the brutal facts that are documented in obtaining an illegal salary at the Irpine Tax Academy, in other cases. And for what reasons is that? Why is the law binding on all and not binding on the judge? Only for political reasons, on the grounds that the judge still has to make a decision and be on the hook. As for the second project, the project that Leonida Mikhailovich Černovetských, I regret to agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and our committee that considered this bill. And the Science and Experimental Authority and our committee have proposed that this bill be rejected. Why? Because the position of part two of article 13 of the Act on the Status of Judges completely repeats the same standard of part three of article 126 of the Constitution. This is the first time. Secondly, the Constitutional Court's decision of December 1st 2004 in the case of independent judges as such. The elements of their status do not imply that the law is bound to extend the independence of judges in comparison with the Constitution. Moreover, you and I do not have the right to extend these powers more than is provided for in the Constitution. And the third thing I wanted to point out. Dear friends, and staff, and judges ’ assistants are not needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u70	Oleg Zarubinski. The last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u71	Oleg Zarubinsky, National Block of Lithuania Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The problems of social protection and social equality are key to a society that values and respects a person. Because each of us must be confident that he is legally protected from any violation of his civil rights. As usual, similar confidence brings stability to a society that contributes to its economic stability. In today’s world, judicial authorities have been called upon to guarantee the integrity of the principle of social equality and equality. But at the same time, the guarantor himself, the judges, must be protected from any external pressure and influence. That is, to be independent, unrelated to any other will, apart from law and conscience. In other words, in order for all citizens to be equal before the law, it is essential that those who decide the fate of the accused feel at least protected by law. Analysing the jurisprudence of other countries, U.S. publicist Robert Orben, quoted at the reception of high officials, recalls: “The detective shows always end on time, after the arrest of the criminal, but before the verdict, because after the verdict, the idea of justice and legality is usually ruined. It is because the defendant is usually found guilty until he has proved his own influence.” Hence, respectable colleagues may be able to guarantee the integrity of the judges or to achieve the full justice of the trial. Not to be naive, along with the creation of newer protective mechanisms, there are also new ways of influencing or exerting pressure on judges, who are not at some point opposed to being pressured, such as by a tight wallet or in some other way. Scientists have concluded, for example, that there are about 5% of those who do not take bribes or otherwise break the law. But about 5% of those who try to bribe under any circumstances. So to minimize bribes and violations of the Law. For example, in courts, it is necessary, first of all, to select and appoint those judges who are reluctant to break the law, reluctant to take bribes. Thus, the faction of the People’s Party generally understands the idea of this bill and emphasizes that it is not a panacea of unjust judicial decisions. On the turn of the day, it is our belief that a transparent procedure for the appointment and appointment of judges is in place. This can have a real effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u72	Please, Chernewsky, one minute. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. I think I'm at the point, and you're going to vote for this law, just get ready for it. Because this law, even if we only protect one good judge, there are many. I was an investigator at the D.A.'s office, and we didn't have any bribes. Anyone who worked with me can confirm that because there were no such phenomena at the time. I say that the problems of corruption and the insecurity of the population are very different. Judges must be chosen and appointed to the Supreme Court, but when they reach a certain age price. They're fired after 65 years. In America, for example, the average age of the Supreme Judge is 74 years. It's okay. And for district, city courts, it's just an election system. Otherwise, corruption in Ukraine will flourish, and our citizens will curse both the Supreme Council and all the authorities taken together. Please vote in favour of this law. And you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me get to the place so I can make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The first is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, Project 7042, author Leonid Czernovecki, on the basis of the vote. [[guaranteeing the independence of judges]] Please vote. The vote is coming. Vote. [[17:43:49]] For-76 The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft Law 7042-1 on amendments and additions to the Act on the Status of Judges. [[on the violation of a criminal case before a judge]] Yes. Author Onichtuk. Please vote. [[17:44:27]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to return to the draft laws of 7042, 7042-1. Please vote. Dear colleagues, return. [[17:44:54]] For 186 The decision is not taken. I am voting for the return to Bill 7042, author Leonid Chernewicki. [[17:45:21]] For-69 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on the motion to return to Bill 7042-1, author of Mikola Onichtuk. Please vote. [[17:45:43]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Bills are rejected. Bills are rejected. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code is being announced for consideration. [[on persons who cannot be married to each other]] The reporter of Vitaly Oluiko. Get ready for Victor Musiacs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u75	Honorable National Deputies, the Ukrainian Family Codex, was adopted by the Supreme Council on January 10, 2002. Its standards determine the principles of marriage, the personal immeasurable and property rights and obligations of marriage, the origins, the content of personal property and property rights and the responsibilities of parents and children, adoptive parents and adoptive parents, other family members and relatives. Today, article 41, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Family Code states that marriage can be declared invalid by court decision if it has been registered between an adopter and an adopted child who violates the requirements set out in article 26, section 4, of the Code. However, the requirements that make it possible to register a marriage between the above - mentioned persons are not defined in part 4 of article 26, but in part 5 of article 26 of the Code. Thus, the proposal is aimed at correcting the inaccuracies we had in adopting the Ukrainian Family Code. Please support this bill, and it will correct the inaccuracies of article 41 of the Family Code, since today the courts are facing a problem and are in a deadlock, and will agree accordingly on the status of the articles of the Ukrainian Family Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u76	Yes, from Musiak's committee, Victor Lavrentiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill is about correcting the purely technical error that was made in most likely publishing the Family Code. It turned out that instead of forbidding the right of adoptive parents and adopted children, they were thus forbidden to be married to the adoptive child and adopted by the adoptive child. In other words, they have absolutely no relationship with each other so that it can be forbidden. So once again, it's a technical mistake and I don't think I should, there's no reason to talk about it, but just to vote, I invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u78	Honorable national MPs are obviously an obvious draft document. Let us now vote and make the right decision. I'd like the national deputies to come into the session room and mobilize for a few votes. Please. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, on the adoption as a basis and as a whole, as a bill of the bill amending the Ukrainian Family Code for persons who cannot be married to each other. Registration number 7155. Vote, please, Your Honor. [[17:49:35]] For 296 We passed the law. I put it on the vote as a basis and as a whole. The law is passed. The registration number is 7,155. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government is being announced for consideration. [[on the substitutes for the heads of the district councils]] Anatoly Orzhachowski. Get ready, Ivancho. Please, very briefly. Dear colleagues, let's continue our evening session for 15 minutes. Here we have a little bit more than ten questions to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u79	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Head! Colleagues, national MPs, voters! Let me introduce you to the content and purpose of the bill I have proposed. First of all, it has become possible as a result of the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of previous bills on the promotion of the category of officials of local self-government, including the heads of communities and secretaries of relevant rural, rural and urban councils. As we know, rural, district, republican cities, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are the administrative and territorial units of the same level. They're linked to the average administrative-territorial system of Ukraine. The crew member who holds second place in the council of the city, district, and republican importance is the secretary of this council. And on the district council, he's the deputy head of the district council. They both have the right to temporarily exercise the authority of the first official, respectively the city head, the head of the district council. Today, the position of secretary of the appropriate council is assigned to the fourth category, and the position of deputy district council to the fifth. In connection with my appointment as Ukrainian national deputy to the local self - government committee, numerous letters from the district and district councils are coming in asking me to correct any injustice and to assign the post of deputy district council officer to the fourth category of posts. I believe that the adoption of the proposed bill will enhance the role and authority of the district official and contribute to the effective functioning of the basic level of local self-government. I accept the observation of the Scientific and Expert Office, and I understand that the deadline for the introduction of the law can be significantly extended at a time consistent with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code and with the adoption of the State budget for 2006 today. I look forward to your support for the legislative proposal introduced in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Maybe we've made that decision now, given the scientific and expert management's proposal. Please take the seat of the committee. Ivan Vasilovich Ivancho. And we could vote on it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u81	Ivancho, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered a bill submitted by the Orzhachovski People's Deputy to amend the Ukrainian Law on “The Service in Local Self-Government Authorities” concerning the deputy heads of the district councils and suggests that it be accepted as a basis. The bill proposes that this official be transferred from category five to category four. This is particularly important in connection with the entry into force of changes to the Constitution. The main scientific and expert administration does not object to the content of the bill. However, the Ministry of Finance does not support the bill, as changes in the law will provide for additional expenditure from the budget of some 500,000 dollars a year. It has also been noted that article 27 of the Code of Budgets provides that the bill’s rules may not be applied before the start of the budget period of the next scheduled period. That's right, too. Yet. The committee believes that this observation is essentially petty, since a change in the board’s category of deputy heads from five to four requires about 50 dollars a month for each district council. There's nothing to talk about. In view of this, the committee suggests that the decision be taken. The bill is based and voted for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, maybe we'll take into account the scientific observation. And in order not to load the committee's work, we're going to take it as a commission. Well, there's a note there from the following year. Yes. Not since 2006, but since 2007, there has been such a proposal. Let's take it as his law. Dear colleagues, taking into account the comments of the Scientific and Expert Committee and agreeing with the author, and agreeing with the committee, we can accept it as a whole as a law implementing the following 2007 and all. In view of this, I am voting on acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Governmental Authorities for Deputy Chiefs of the District Councils. Registration number 7642. Please vote. [[17:55:24]] For 290 Decision taken. For 290, the law's been passed. Since we have agreed to continue our work, the draft Law on the rearing of children and young people is under review. Registration number 7251. Mikhailo Josephovich Bauer. Please, very briefly. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We destroyed the existing educational model, and instead we offered nothing new. The whole educational process is carried out spontaneously, chaoticly, without clearly defined orientations. Priorities and means of shaping the world’s values have not been established. At the same time, virtually all the world-viewed objects have been removed from the educational process. In such a state, it may be assumed that the educational process has minimal educational effect, and all extracurricular activities are carried out practically on the basis of public principles, on the personal enthusiasm of educators. There is no structure for the educational process. So I'm asked to introduce a second, third degree, regardless of the number of students, as deputy director of education, social education, and a practical psychologist, depending on the number of students. Schools, colleges, and colleges are appointed as curators. A class manager in a public school is expected to receive an allowance of 50 percent of the teacher’s salary. The bill proposes the adoption of regulations that require additional budget spending, and this creates a resistance to the government's financial and economic bloc. But let's remember how many laws that substantially increased the spending part of the budget we adopted, and they didn't all touch the spiritual being of a person, the soul of a child. We're offering minimum payouts. This amount – 275 million dollars – is much higher because during the work on the law there was a significant decline in the network of educational institutions and the corresponding funding of the education system as a whole. And since the law will be implemented since 2007, the amount will be much lower. I've analyzed all 19 scientific findings. There are valid comments that need to be taken into account in further work on the law. Most experts believe that a bill should be adopted on the basis of comments. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus believes that the results of the first reading of the draft of the Law on the Education of Children and Youth are appropriate to be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u84	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u85	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Honourable National Deputies, the Science and Education Committee, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law number 7251 and recommended that the Ukrainian National Deputies accept it as a basis, that is, in the first reading. The main scientific and expert management, as has already been said, also considers it appropriate to adopt the draft Ukrainian law on child and youth education on the basis of observations and suggestions. By the way, the importance of child rearing and youth support the comments and suggestions that have come into the draft law of more than 10 entities in the legislative initiative, and none of them remain indifferent to the law. I think it shows great interest in solving the problems of raising children and young people, of understanding that today's educational process is mainly chaotic, on the personal enthusiasm of teachers, without scientific justification, in short, without systems. The Communist faction will vote in favour of the bill. It is conceptually in line with the party's programming objectives as to the fact that educated young people, who have the opportunity to receive quality education, are Ukraine's future. Considering that all their activities are directed and directed by the communists to ensure the future of their citizens, we support this project. Taking into account suggestions and comments will, of course, improve the meaningful part. Therefore, I would like to support draft Law No. 7251 “On the rearing of children and young people” and, if you agree to accept it, to entrust the Committee on Science and Education with preparing it for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, let's perhaps accept the committee's proposal, vote it. Please, let's talk. Vladimir Novak, first recorded for discussion. Prepare Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u87	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, even today’s attitude toward this law speaks of how we, at what level of importance we put this problem. I think it would be fair today to thank the author of the project for trying to legislatively identify the problem of raising young people and children and to identify the problems of their solution, the ways. For Ukraine, this is a huge problem. If you want, it's a national security issue, a problem for our country's future. Let's take a little tour of the past. During Soviet times, we had a clear system of education, child rearing, and young people, specifically strengthened by material security from the State. Schools, youth libraries, children's homes, the extra-school system -- all of this was funded by the state. The slogan “Everything Better — Children” was really in action. Our child - rearing system envied the world, and the teacher’s title sounded proud and well paid. Where is it now? Where did it go? What did the authorities do in 14 years? She broke the system of education and training and continued to fall further down. Tell me, in recent years, when did you hear about the young library, the children's house, the new modern school? They're closing everything that was and worked. They're shutting down the funding. In those palaces where our children owned, business structures are dominated, which are used for bribes by today’s authorities for the property that has been created by generations of Ukrainians. The grotesque hands have reached the world-renowned “Artec” children's health clinic. The village of Lisvoda is famous for its workers. More than forty were the leaders of the Ukrainian legend, a man who is remembered with great warmth today by the hopers, twice the Hero of the socialist work Gregory Ivanovich Tkayuk. During his period of work, the village became a populace with all the comforts of civilization. The household built a kindergarten, a school, and a children’s creative home. Today, local authorities have asked about the closure of the house. One reason is that there's no money. It turns out that Gregory Ivanovich, a wise man, looked forward to the future, and today’s authorities see neither their future nor their future Ukraine. Look at the movies on the television screen today. What books are on the market? It promotes wickedness, betrayal, and the worship of power. Sadly, however, today’s authority must be removed from the upbringing of young people. She cannot raise real patriots in Ukraine because she does not. And the law has to be passed. He will not, of course, solve all our problems in raising young people, but on the first reading of the Communists, our faction will vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u88	Yes, Vladimir Korge, please. And, dear fellows, if there's any insistence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u89	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, in the draft law on the upbringing of children and young people, registration number 7251, clearly defined powers of executive authorities and local self-government authorities in the upbringing of children and young people. There are also features in the staffing of educational institutions, depending on the number of students, the financing of socially organized activities, and scientific research in the field of education. Therefore, it is natural that a committee of profile proposes to support this bill. It will help to improve public policies towards the upbringing, legal and psychological security of children and young people, to regulate the implementation of the educational process, the order of its scientific, information, methodological and human resources, to determine the authority of executive authorities and local self-government to carry out socially oriented activities. However, it should be noted that in this area there are already laws on education, on general secondary education, on “For secondary education”, on “For higher education”, on “For preschool education”, on “For preschool education”, on the Family Code, on the other hand. Therefore, the proposed bill contains a well - known definition, functions, tasks, and in some institutions legislation are referred to. It should not be overlooked that the explanatory note does not answer the question of where additional funding will be allocated to implement the envisaged measures, even though they are minor. Please support the bill in the first reading, the second reading will be improved and we will have the law required for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! One minute! We have the right to speak with Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u91	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. The law is certainly well - known for raising children and young people. I thank my colleague Bauer for paying attention to this problem. But I would like to ask you a few questions as a lawyer. Please tell us what kind of settlement this law is committed to? And you won't answer those questions. You're going to say that by introducing that understandable apparatus that's here in the health article 1 "Definition of terms," there are theoretical developments here, in particular, what is the same reverberation, activation, personality in its own effort to change moral awareness and behavior, is a quote and so on. And so round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and When it comes to rules that regulate certain legal relationships, I could hardly distinguish them from those of other laws. I couldn't tell for myself! Why did we then adopt other legislative acts, such as those discussed by our colleagues? And about higher education, and about secondary education, and about education, more loyal. And the mass, the mass, the mass of the Family Codex. All of this we've written down and we could put and paste there right now, complement. The same as with the provision of education or the freed class manager or the curator, as the question goes, is the same, this is article 32. Then I fully agree that it would take pedagogical workers who provide work with teenagers, with our young, growing generation, to raise their salaries. I completely agree with that. But why don't you explain to me why these rules can't be incorporated into existing laws? Why are we still producing the laws of principles in fact? Which have great theoretical meaning, but they have virtually no legal workload. Please see how the articles are written. “Training function”, “Deliverable sphere in the educational process”, “Training in the secondary school. “ Education in higher education. ‘ Vocational and technical education. ’ When do we end this? I don't mind accepting it on the first reading. But I'd like to look at it, and we're still doing systematization, we're doing codification of legislation, and we're moving away from just recording the rules of the declaration, and we're getting closer to regulating the legal relationship that is not yet settled in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u92	Yes, please, Vasil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u93	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party, People's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The need for adoption of this bill. From the Bible pages, we know the expression that the holy place is not empty. The child’s consciousness and soul, as well as that of the young man, are the holy place. And this process is to suck into the child's consciousness of new knowledge, a new experience cannot be stopped or controlled. The only thing that can and should be affected is the quality of what this soul is filled with. Most of all from parents, it depends on the environment that our children gain daily experience, the conditions in which they are molded as individuals. Thus, the people correctly generalized these processes with the words of the proverb: “Whatever you sow, you reap.” Repeating adults, facing the harsh realities of unemployment, drug addiction, and fornication, leaves little for children to imitate. That is, generation after generation, the mass of separate personalities that have not been taught in love, kindness, not set up positively for the perception of the world around them. Yet everyone should always remember that society is one common boat for all its passengers, who sail together on the ocean of life. A well - known Marxist classic of his day stated: “You can’t live in society and be free of it. No one has ever been able to turn away from the rest of the world, from all the manifestations that dominate it. The weakening attention to children and the growing generation from institutions and other institutions has resulted in street and TV activities that have caused many childhood diseases, fears, and nervous breakdowns. That's why the faction of the People's Party, the People's Block of Lithuania, advocates for the formation and implementation at the national level of systemic, sequential, educational and educational policies on the basis of inclusiveness and integrity of education and educational processes. With regard to the proposed bill, we need to be very careful about its consideration, since despite its purely positive goal, it contains a number of serious shortcomings and requires thorough work after its adoption in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u94	Dear National Deputies! Manchulenka, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u95	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head! Dear colleagues! If you think about the title of the bill, it turns out that children and young people have never been raised before. Do you understand? And the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party is concerned about this methodological approach to the drafting of the bill. We are concerned that the process of raising children and young people needs to be improved. insufficient attention is paid to this by the State, which is not enough State funding to raise children and young people. The Ukrainian People's Party for our children and our young people to be brought up in a spirit of respect for parents, for the older generation, for Ukrainian history, for the Ukrainian state, but we want our legislation to be normal so that we don't have to raise children, young people, but we want to adopt the law and start raising them. So we are more inclined to make changes to the existing laws that are already regulating this area and to improve the current functioning base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-20-m1.u96	Honourable National MPs are voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Ukrainian law on the upbringing of children and young people. Registration number 7251. Please vote. Let's take it as a base, and we'll keep working there. [[18:15:02]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Who's in favour of going back to the draft law, Registration number 7251, please vote. [[18:15:27]] For 224 The solution. What? Let's re-read it. Who's in favour of correcting the draft law on child rearing and young people re-reading, registration number 7251, please vote. [[18:16:00]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we may take this as a basis for article 57 of the Tamari Proscurat Bill to complete today's work. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of staff of educational institutions on official salaries. What? What are you saying? I'd like you to remind me when we took the budget at 20 hours to get you to come over and make a note! Take your seats, please! Then you didn't come when you had to accept the budget. You remind me now! It's very important. Calm down, dear fellows! I want to say again, don't remind me of the Rules! When we were looking at the budget, at 6 p.m., you didn't think of any Rules! Where was your principle? I'll tell you where your principles have been.Oh, my God! Calm down! Calm down, please! What? What, what? And that's him on the grounds of the vote, Manchulenko, he took it. The discussion is over, Manchulenko has taken the vote for reasons. Dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. schedule for Wednesday.
