ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:18]] There were 424 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Zbec Mikhail Vasilovich and Kaputzin Viktor Volodymyrovich. Let's welcome our colleagues, we wish for all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the April 6th plenary: seven agenda issues were considered, and nearly 200 parliamentary requests were adopted and voted. As a result of the consideration of issues. [[Now, one minute.]] I know all about it. What are you, respectable colleagues? Come on. Let's get this over with, one minute. Well, these are organizational questions. Please! One bill was adopted on the first reading as a basis, and one bill was rejected. Information has been received from the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence on the whereabouts of the Ukrainian delegation in the Republic of Iraq. Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Two factions call for a break. Please, your statement. Yes, please, who will make the application? Another announcement as they prepare for the performance. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Demjokina Vladimir Anatoliyovich from the "One Ukraine" party. Yes, please, National Deputy Vasiliev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, prominent citizens of Ukraine! The state authorities in Ukraine today continue to systematically and purposefully persecute their opponents from massive layoffs from the work of citizens who support the Party of Regions and Viktor Yanukovic, from trying to do a illustration, from a eloquent one. Court decisions, from reprisals about. orange business, from the persecution of independent media, the authorities have moved on to the next stage -- the destruction of the opposition, the direct pressure on them by the powers. On April 6, the head of the Donetsk District Council, the leader of the Regional Party, a law-abiding citizen of Ukraine Boris Kolesnikov, was detained in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. He was summoned to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine as a witness in a case related to events last year in North London. However, the head of the district council was detained in connection with the case, in no way related to the reason for Kolesnikov’s call to the Attorney General’s Office. Domestic legislation, human rights, and citizens have been brutally and cynically ignored. At present, Boris Kolesnikov continues to be in the detention facility, regardless of his unsatisfying condition. The deputy faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" views these acts of law enforcement as deliberately, pre-planned and, without exception, sanctioned at the highest level of state provocation directed against the Party of Regions, whose existence is perceived by today's authorities as a threat to its interests. By exhausting legal arguments, the authorities had passed on to her the language of revolutionary desirability and violation of the law. It is clear that in the fight against those who have different views from those of orange politics. The so - called national authorities have chosen the cruelest course of action. The regime can't destroy us as a whole as a political opposition force, so it's a political force that's resorting to repression against the most authoritative leaders in the region. However, no one can break us. The Ukrainian MP's faction states that fighting the supporters of Viktor Yanukovitch by means of repression is a way to go nowhere, especially for the authorities themselves. The terror and intimidation of opponents are not directed at either the people or the civilian world and the world society. The faction of "Ukraine" calls not only. The "Regions" party, but everyone who's looking for it. The Ukraines of the anti-democracy political regime publicly express all protests against and the cynicism of orange power. In particular, we hope for an adequate assessment of the situation on the part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- whether it is the last guarantee of reasonableness and stability in society and the political environment today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u3	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u4	I'll be right back. We demand the immediate release of Boris Kolesnikov from custody, which is transparent to control the social setting of the actual circumstances of the incident and to punish the guilty for breaking the law. If our demands are rejected, millions of our constituents will be deliberately placed in power before they need to take adequate action within the framework of the Constitution to protect their inalienable rights and freedoms. The totalitarian regime in Ukraine is not going to go through what.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the problem. I'm asking you to exchange your thoughts on this. Please sign up, five minutes, for this matter, please. Now let's unblock this question, my dear fellows, so that we can continue our work. Yes, please, on the sign-up table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u6	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Kendzior?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u7	Jaroslav Kenzior, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u8	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters! Now, dear friends, we have a classic example of when, in the form of a struggle against persecution and political repression, the MPs' group "Regions", the SDPU (o) defends those who have unforgivingly violated the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. I can cite dozens of examples where the open criminal authorities, who had long been supposed to sit on the bench, today defend these political parties and today the criminal scene is dressed as if political persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u9	Alexander Masenko, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u10	Thank you. Please pass the word to colleague Igor Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u11	Igor Alexeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u12	Microphone! In this regard, we agree that it is necessary for the Supreme Council of the Attorney General to be called upon to report on this matter. But there are also matters of state that we cannot keep quiet today. On April 5, 2005, on President Yushchenka's official visit to the United States, the leaders of the two states signed a joint statement stating, inter alia: "We also promise to work together to support the progress of freedom in countries such as Cuba and Belarus." The faction appreciates such a claim as U.S. intervention in the internal affairs of the sovereign state, an attempt to pressure the legitimate authorities of the Republic of Cuba. We, the parliamentarians of Ukraine, are very sorry and ashamed that this disgraceful fact has also been involved in our country, which is essentially transformed into a puppet of the most powerful state in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u13	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters in Ukraine! There is terror in the country. Everything related to Yanukovic's name today, with the name of the Party of the Regions, is subject to pressure. The first was Bodelan, now Kolesnikov. Yesterday, we, a group of 30 national deputies, came to the Attorney-General's Office, and we asked, "On what grounds did the President of the Regional Council, the President of the Regional Council in Ukraine, have been detained?" Neither the Attorney-General nor his deputy had been able to answer us in any reasonable way, they all referred to the alleged self-activity of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Our group was in the Ministry, too, they're doing it. We need to hear a report and information on this matter from the Attorney-General and the Minister of the Interior. Without that, we will not let the Supreme Council work. Who's next? It's Donetsk tomorrow, Herson, after Zaporozhye tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u15	Sergey Ratushniak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u16	Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! First of all, we need to immediately invite the Attorney General here and let him explain the crimes that Kolesnik has been charged with, once. The other one. What a social danger Kolesnikov faces if he is on the loose because it is a public policy from a regional higher echelon. But in the decision they're proposing to announce and accept the representatives of the regions, I want to add that the faction of the SDPU(o) and the party acknowledge the five-year abuse of me, also me holding me on the bench for five months, destroying my 30 structures, leaving four thousand families unemployed, and so they admit, they regret it, and they want to protect Kolesnik. The Attorney General is here and let us know whether he's a criminal or a political victim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u17	Yes. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u18	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, we must always be objective and considerate in responding to decisions made by law enforcement officers. As we approach the last 10 years of ownership in Ukraine, we need thousands of five people, who were once in power and those who were. Which is now in power. If the issue is about the head of the district council being accused, it is a public office and a person who will be supported in any way in the Donetsk district by a deputy corps and an electorate. It seems to me that if the members of the Supreme Council subscribe about, and take him on bail, he is not a murderer, or someone who subscribes to non-refoulement may be a normal form, so that we are not accused of making political decisions like, by the way, the past regime is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u19	Yes. Dear colleagues, we've exchanged thoughts, please sit down, so that we can decide, make a decision. Please sit down, for who will vote? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way, I think we're now seeing a situation that is unfolding in the Supreme Council. We are now seeing the situation that in Ukraine we are at the brink of what confrontation and conflict. So that the delicate balance that we have today in society and stability is not disturbed. I think we should get accurate information on what charges incriminating the head of the district council? And then, dear fellows, I ask you to calm down, we'll get information if you support this proposal. So that we can have productive work in Parliament, in addition to everything else. So I'd like to have your attention. I'm putting to the vote the proposal that was made to include the day-to-day issue: the information of the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, regarding the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council. So to put it in the agenda and listen to this information, let's say, today is 1:00. Well, we need to get ready to find people if we're gonna support this. Well, let's really look at things. It's 20 minutes by 11. What if they're gone? It's 13 o'clock to listen to the information. Once again, I put to the vote the information of the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the circumstances and reasons for the detention of the Head of the Donetsk District State Administration, Koleznikov. Please. Change the vote. I'm sorry. Again. There is a vote on the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Prosecutor General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the reasons, circumstances of the detention of the Head of the Donetsk District Council of Koleznikov. Please vote. [[10:18:44]] For 317 Decision taken. The factions. Please. Dear colleagues, everything will be fine. The factions. "Our Ukraine" -19; Communists -56; "Ukraine" -52; People's Party -29; SPI -28; Block Timoshenko -3; Ukrainian People's Party -17; SDPU -20; "Only Ukraine" -20; "Democratic Ukraine" -19; SPT -12; "Deminiciatives" -14; "Union" -14, non-fractional -14. I ask Adam Ivanovich to contact the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs and invite them to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 13 hours. I would like to ask, my fellow Members, to point out that we have decided to listen to information, not to discuss it. Have a seat. And two more factions call for a break. Now the next, this required a break of two factions according to the Rules of the "Regions of Ukraine" and "Democratic Ukraine" and now the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and "Democratic Initiatives". Is that how we're gonna work? Please make an application. Now, one minute. Why should I stop if we've made our decision? We've made up our minds, dear colleagues. Please, who's coming from. SDPU(o) and Democratic Initiatives, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u20	Ephim Fix, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Honourable People's Deputies, in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, distributed a text to the head of the Supreme Council and members of the Supreme Council of Autonomy, signed by President Yushchenk of Ukraine, proposing to consider the nomination of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Sklar for his appointment as chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's what we're looking at here. First of all, it is highly doubtful that the President of Ukraine could sign a statement of this kind. Secondly, even if the President has signed a similar petition, then the people who have prepared it also testify to professional incompetence from a legal point of view, which in turn puts a document signed by the President outside the constitutional field of Ukraine. In accordance with part three of article 136 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is appointed to office, and is dismissed from office by the Supreme Council of Autonomy in agreement with the President. In this way, the Ukrainian Constitution confers only the right of the President to accept the candidature of the Council of Ministers. According to article 29, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Autonomy, the right to run for office of the Council of Ministers of Crimea is the exclusive competence of the head of the Supreme Council of Crimea. Moreover, the question of the appointment of a new head of the Crimean government at this time is illegal because the acting head of the Crimea Council exercises his powers in full compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the question of his resignation was not considered by the Supreme Council of Crimea, and the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, disagreed with the human resources issue. The ruling on the issue raised in our opinion is a grave violation of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which regulate the resolution of human resources issues in part with regard to the appointment procedure and the agreement of the head of the Autonomous Council of Ministers. In addition, this reference, if real, can be seen as an open disregard for the constitutional powers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and a violation of the authority of the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that Prime Minister Timoshenko, in meeting with the faction, promised to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Crimea regarding the resolution of human resources issues. And the President's address is absolutely the opposite. The faction of Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party requires the President to investigate the circumstances carefully and to draw the appropriate conclusions. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, two more factions -- the faction of the Socialist Party and the faction of the People's Party call for a recess. For what reason? Who will act? Please, Rudzkowski. And let's finally get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation with the Government’s changes to the Customs Code has led thousands of people to the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the Supreme Council. Farmers came with their chickens, pigs, cows, because they were no longer needed for Ukraine. If we accept the changes to the Customs Code that are proposed, Ukrainian meat will not be good for cultivation, nor will it be good for us to cultivate anything. All I'm going to do is read the beef twice the customs tariffs, five to six times the other meat products, 97 percent the rate of duty cuts. Customs restrictions are removed on milk and butter. Customs restrictions are being lifted not only for meat products, but also for vegetables — potatoes, carrots, onions, cucumbers, and tomatoes — so that you can understand that after that we will eat only Bulgarian potatoes, tomatoes, and cucumbers, Polish meat, and American and Brazilian chicken. We think the faction of socialists is going to you, the people's deputies, to others, so to speak, the population category: we ask you all to stand up for the Ukrainian producer. If we don't go back to the village, if those 15 million citizens of Ukraine don't feel that they can produce Ukrainian products with profits, they won't make sense, and they won't smell the cities, they won't tear down the fields, it'll be uncomfortable if we take these changes to the Customs tariff, and they'll grow agricultural products in Ukraine. And then we're going to have at least one and a half million jobs lost, because those people who work in processing and in rural areas will no longer be able to get their jobs and keep jobs. At a time when the government has to focus on prices that have risen on petroleum products, it focuses on reducing prices for agricultural products that are produced in Ukraine. If we go like this, agricultural production will be uncompetitive compared to our neighbors, because Polish subsidies are six times higher than in Ukrainian, in German -- 40 times higher than in Ukrainian. We, the Supreme Council, must defend the Ukrainian producers, the villages, and support the people in the square. I'm asking you to put a broadcast on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u23	Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. What? Five seconds, finish your thinking. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u24	And the Socialist faction's request to move this issue to a week until we work out the full text of this law and agree with the agrarians. Please don't consider the Customs tariff today - the insistence of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u25	The point is, my fellow officers, this morning we received an agreed draft change to the Customs Tariff. It is now necessary for the committee to consider. First. Because the committee didn't look into it and the MPs didn't get to know each other. So let's look at it, get to know it, then we'll figure it out. From the procedure of our organization of work for three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Jaroslav Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u26	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, well, in order to really make effective use of our working hours in the session hall, we need to make sure that all these speculations are rejected, when criminal criminals are just beginning to demagogically claim that they are subjected to political repression, persecution and so on. We know that one of the most important slogans that kept quiet on the field, that "bands will be sitting in jail," they really should be sitting in jail. And this whole thing that they're making, political persecution and political repression, it has to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u27	Anatoly Nostawaiko is referring the right to speak to Alexei, a faction of Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to continue with the subject of the disgraceful statement about Cuba. It is especially shameful that a joint statement by the presidents of the United States and Ukraine was made at a time when Ukrainian-Cubin relations had a very important event: 15 years of a unique treatment programme in Cuba for Ukrainian children who had suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, the Children of Chernobyl humanitarian program. In general, over the course of the 15 years of this program, about 20,000 Ukrainian children have been treated and cured, for which the government is not very rich, I emphasize that Cuba has spent over 300 million dollars. Even though Cuba herself has been under a severe economic, financial and commercial blockade for 46 years by the United States itself, it has become the only country in the world that has unselfishly stretched out the hands of the Ukrainian people. The Communist faction believes that the biggest human rights violation in Cuba is the 46-year blockade by the U.S. administration, which costs about 80 billion dollars. We demand the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinski. The faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The head of the Supreme Council gave three minutes just for the organization of work, and you know, I have the impression that we have today. During the plenary week, every working day starts with such a strange procedure, when we take the word of one faction or another, I think it's not normal, and if it's normal someone thinks it should be normalized and formalized. I'd like us to go to the Regulatory Committee to think about this, or every plenary day will start with some kind of statement, a message, or we'll be doing the very stressful agenda that we have today. Because otherwise, we're just going to get out of the fact that Parliament is a "parle," but that's still a decision to make. [[talk]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the rule is that this rule is in order, that, at the request of two factions, the presiding officer may give a recess of up to 30 minutes, but we have a blocking process when we don't take a break. So let's get to the point. The question of the suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy is being considered. Reporter to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council Valentin Grigorovich Matviev Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the committee yesterday considered and supported the statement made by the national deputy of Zvania David Važajevich that he should be appointed as deputy minister in connection with extraordinary situations. The draft decision of the Supreme Council on this issue, namely, the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, is given to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the draft is put to the vote. With motive? Please sign up, three minutes. Change the vote. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u34	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. I think that in this case the motives are quite clear, and this draft decision needs to be supported, because our colleague Zwania is working as a minister, and clearly he has to be appointed. For example, I would like to refer to the regulatory committee with two such things and to Vladimir Mikhailovich. First. I fully support what Oleg Zarubinski says. If we have a break, let there be a break, and then three minutes, maybe less willing just to take the word for three minutes, because we have obvious cases of misuse of the word. That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to go to the regulatory committee with another question. Today, my colleague Koval and I registered a draft regulation for the Rules of Procedure for Change of Procedure, since it is not possible to sign up for a speech at 5 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u35	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u36	Thank you, please pass the word to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u37	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the committee's proposal has to be supported, but the government now has about three tens and other structures of Ukrainian national deputies who have so far failed to exercise authority. This all affects the economic situation, including in the agricultural sector. Why is the Minister of Agriculture silent about the terrible situation in the agricultural sector? I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask the question and offer to hear a report from the government on April 19 at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the terrible situation in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u39	Two more minutes. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear reporter! Indeed, 30 deputies failed to exercise their authority. As you're looking at preparing, the Regulatory Committee, the draft decision to remove the votes of the co-conspirators. So because they don't work on the Supreme Council, they vote for them. We're going to take out the voting rights, and then they're going to wonder whether we're going to stay here as deputies, or if we're going to work for the main job. So I'm making a proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to have the Regulatory Committee prepare a decision to remove the members of the co-sponsors from the vote. And that'll be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u41	Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u42	Well, it's not really a question to me as a reporter, but I'll answer it. Well, first of all, there's no regulatory norm, and that doesn't match the law on the status of the Ukrainian national MP. It's just for us to decide, to decide that these people's deputies should be deprived of their parliamentary powers in court if they don't want to write their own applications for parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, please note that the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy - Zwania David Važajevich is being put to the vote, please vote. [[10:36:24]] For 336 Decision taken. Draft decrees on the election of Ukrainian national deputies by members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are being announced for consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee, an application was made for the election of Ukrainian national deputy Muhin Volodymyr Vasilovich, who is part of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, a member of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Considering that the calculated quota for the MP's faction on the Committees for today is 1.2, and the committee that is asked to elect its national MP, the representative of this faction does not exist today, i.e. the quota has not been used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy Muchin. Therefore, the Supreme Council is being reviewed by a draft Decree on the election of the Muchin People's Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy is being put to the vote. [[Registration number 7313]] I'm sorry. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Ukrainian National Deputy Muhin Volodymyr Vasilovic as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 7315]] Please vote. [[10:38:26]] For 352 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u46	Thank you. The committee also considered the statement by Ukrainian National Deputy Zizko Sergija Andrijavović, who is part of the faction of Viktor Yushchenk's Block "Our Ukraine", a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence. The calculated quota for the designated parliamentary faction on the committees today is 3.4. There are no factions on this committee today. So the quota is not used. A majority of the votes of the committee have decided to support the application and an appropriate decision has been made for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Žizka Sergija Andryovič as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7314]] Please vote. [[10:40:03]] For 295 Decision taken. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u48	Yesterday, the committee also considered an application for the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Sidorenka Mikoli Yakovič as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. The quota of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Democratic People’s Party, which, by the way, includes a national deputy, is now 0.9. And there is no representative of this faction on this committee, that is, the quota is not used. The committee has decided to support the application, and a draft decision on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sidorenka as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations is being submitted to your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u49	Please sign up for motive, three minutes. Mikola Odanik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u50	Please pass the word to a colleague of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. I'd like to suggest that we change our approach, and we don't waste any time on such obvious things. I'd just like to ask Vladimir Mikhailovich that we cut back on this issue and maybe we wouldn't even ask questions if they didn't come up. We just have a lot of drafts, these projects we have, they're many. Let's cut back and not take it from these questions. I'm talking more to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, and it's in our interests that today is scheduled for how many questions, we can't look at the agenda that needs to be discussed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this fitting offer made by Yuri Carmazin. Chelnokov. Well, respectable colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u52	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u53	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u54	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Communist faction does not now vote on the definition of a committee on which our colleagues will work and not on what we have specifically to a specific candidate against, but because we are in violation of the Rules and the arrangements that were at the beginning of the organization of our work, that each faction has a proportional representation on the committees. And in this way, we're practically shaping the ratio of faction to a draft law. In this case, I reiterate that we are violating the Rules and violating the proportional principle of representation of our faction on the committees. Regarding the fact that the faction should direct the efforts of its colleagues, I think that's the key to their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u55	The mosquito, the faction of the region of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u56	Please pass the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u57	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u58	Thank you very much. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am not only addressing you, but to all the faction leaders and all the Ukrainian national deputies. We know very well that we have set a quota principle for the formation of all our committees. And I also don't understand when the committee says that the quota of this or another faction is exceeded, and we're violating the same decision that we've made and should follow. And so I'm asking you a lot of attention: it's not the machine we're working for, it's a very responsible job. And we have to keep the quota principle of committee formation, because we really have separate factions of prestigious committees just to strengthen their representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please note, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7313 on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sidorenka Mikoli Yakovic, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please vote. [[10:45:19]] For 233 Decision taken. Yes, Valentin Grigorovich, thank you. Is there any more? Who else?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u60	There is. The committee also considered the application for the election of Ukrainian national deputy Biruk Lev Vasilović, who is part of the Julia Timoshenko bloc as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work Considering that the computational quota of this parliamentary faction today is equal to or equal to one, and that this committee already has a representative of this faction as the national deputy of the Chicagos, that is to say, the quota has already been used, the committee has decided not to support the National MP Biruk's application to elect him as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u61	I'll do it again. Well, there are three minutes, please sign in. Well, what can I do, dear colleagues? On the board, please, A duck. Well, on record, I'm leaving, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u62	Please give the floor to Deputy Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u63	Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u64	National movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block, Bogdan Kostinyuk Ladies and gentlemen, we had just witnessed a previous vote when a faction of Communists said that there had been some kind of violation of the Rules. And we were just witnesses that the chairman of the regulatory committee, he was a member of the one-name faction, claimed that there was no violation of the Rules in the previous vote. Nevertheless, I wonder whether there have been violations of the Rules, according to the Rules Committee, or not. And in general, I think that the Communists should be looking at such issues, moving them to meetings of their own, rather than taking them to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u65	The right to speak to Vladimir Leschchenk is passed on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u66	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Our faction will still not vote if the representation of a faction or group exceeds the quota. That doesn't fit our Rules. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, and I would like to address you personally, as well as the head of the Regulatory Committee, that it is not only necessary to vote for the election of national deputies to a committee, but that these national deputies should work on committees. This question needs to be studied. For example, the Committee on Agrarian Politics, of the 25 national deputies to half of whom are not attending meetings, has found that, since the beginning of this call, they have never taken part in meetings. We need to solve the issue of excluding them from the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u67	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. I think there's a strange situation going on right now. All of us are national deputies and all of us are equal. You don't feel that it's an exercise of common sense: not allowing a national MP to work in the area where he thinks he's an expert, in the area where he has some work, in the area where he's finally going to come to the committee meeting and work? I think this quota, I'm sorry, it's artificial enough. It is still understandable when a deputy wants to join a committee of 40 people who are somehow very popular for some reason. And if we're talking about a committee of 10 to 12 people, what's the quota here? Allow the people’s deputy to work wherever he wants, it is his right, not just his duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u69	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u70	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block. I fully support Zarubinski's colleague, who considers it fair and I also believe that it is necessary to allow the people's MP to work wherever he wishes. Moreover, as far as I know, there are not more than 10 people in this committee. In general, the problem is rather serious. Here we have just considered Muhin's statement, the people's deputies of the last assembly, 1, 2, and he was a member of the Committee on National Security and Defence. He's a specialist who's done a lot of good to the committee, but for some reason, the faction will decide. The Socialist faction decided to transfer him to another committee. And we have 12 people and the biggest problems. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, the Regulatory Committee must somehow regulate the process. We have 40 people on the budget, and we have 10 people on social policy and no one. No one doubts why 40 people are on the budget committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, in general, I would like to answer. If we step away from the quota, even from the political arrangements that were between the factions and the parliamentary groups at the very beginning of the work of the Supreme Council of this call, we will have with you the following, that the Supreme Council will act only three committees and probably no more, and in each of them there will be more than 100 national deputies. This is the Committee on Budget, Finance and Banking, Foreign Affairs. That's it. And there'll be no one working in other profile committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u72	Hara Vasil Georgievicz as chairman of the committee. And then after the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We should be glad that someone has expressed a desire to work on the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. We were 12. In connection with the appointment of Kirilenko Vejacheslav Anatolievich as Minister, 11 were left, the minimum number of members of the people on the Committee. I have already explained that it is very common that no more than 6-7 people are present at the meeting of our committee. In other committees, 30 to 40 persons. I therefore ask everyone to support the human desire to work in our Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u74	This is our parliamentary democracy. The Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council makes proposals in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, and national deputies, i.e. the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can be determined on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The position of the committee to your knowledge has been proven, but according to the Rules, the first vote is the proposal to elect a national deputy of Ukraine, Biruk, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour. [[10:53:25]] For 289 Decision taken. Replica, Simonenko, please. The last name was on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u76	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear representatives of the ruling political party today! I'm asking you a lot of questions when you make comments to the Communist faction, first of all answer for yourself because the only faction of "Our Ukraine" came to the Supreme Council, and according to the arrangements, you, having your quota, delegated experts, as you call them, to a committee or committee. Everything else, I apologize, from the wicked one. And in this case, it shows that some of us are not going to work in the Supreme Council according to the regulations and laws that you have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u77	Please, Valentin Grigorovich, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u78	Thank you. The committee also discussed yesterday the application for the election of Ukrainian national deputy Ratushny Mikhail Jaroslavovich, who is part of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration. The computational quota, by the way, is factions on the committees, as I have already pointed out, 0.9, and in this Committee, which is about European integration, there is already a representative of this faction, Drach Ivan Fedorovich, working today. So the quota has already been used. The committee has decided not to support the statement by the National MP of the Council of Ratushna on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u79	Yes. I see there are, please, three minutes. For reasons of vote. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u80	George Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland's Defenders, I give my word to my colleague Boris Bezpaloma, and I don't think that's entirely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u81	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u82	Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, so, y, I share the approach of the regulatory committee, he's fair in this case, and I want to say that the faction, the quota of our Ukrainian faction in this committee is far from exhausted, far from exhausted. So we're proposing, on the "Our Ukraine" quota, that our fellow Councilman should be included in our committee, other obstacles, I don't think anyone has. So I ask all my colleagues to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u83	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u84	Rodionov, Communist faction. Please pass the word Samuel to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u85	Katerina Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, well, today's event in the Supreme Council reminds me of our President's speech yesterday. 51st, governor of the 51st United States. Despite the fact that there is a Constitution in Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, he said that lysing for Americans is eliminated, that we promise you, that we are doing to you, and that is what we are doing to you. There is no legal basis, no legal basis, no legal basis, no Constitution in Ukraine. And we are doing exactly the same in the Supreme Council today. We know that the quota is exceeded, that there is an agreement. But we want to, and no one can stop us. There must be order in everything, because we'll go so far with you if we're in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u87	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, it will be fair if we now listen to the actual Chairman of the Committee and his opinion on the subject. Therefore, please give the floor to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u89	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u90	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we've just come across this situation that I've just been talking about. It's about quotas to committees that don't have any problems. Our quota of time has been made to ensure that there are no more than 30 members on the committees, although some still do. As for the Councilwoman, I want to say that, unlike many others, he, while not yet a member of our committee, participated actively in his work, participated in his meetings, made his proposals, realizing that he could not vote for it. Let us ask the question again: Are we for common sense or for quotas? By the way, some factions didn't use the quota on our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u91	Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u92	Thank you, I agree with Zarubinsky's colleague, as he represents the committee's leadership today, I understand. But in doing so, I must tell you and remind the members of the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party that they have no quotas at all in such committees as legal policy, social policy and labour, youth policy, science and education, construction, transport, housing and communications, agriculture and land relations, etc. So let's not walk away from the evil one, but there must be common sense and there should be factions of factions of factions in such a way as to influence one faction or another to consider matters that are dealt with in parliamentary committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u93	The Warthog's microphone, because it's about him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I worked as a member of the Legislature Committee for the activities of law enforcement agencies. I'd like to keep working there, but the quota principle doesn't allow me to work there. I worked for a while on the Budget Committee. I'll be honest with you that this Committee on European Integration, given the circumstances that I have a bearing on foreign languages, is close to me. The fact that the position of our Ukraine faction that didn't use the quota there, they share the quota with us, allows us not to violate that principle. That's why I'm talking to you. It is very difficult for us, as deputies who have just arrived, to get involved in the work of a committee in a professional way. I want to assure you that in the work of this committee, I will be guided by principles called professionalism. Well, I can't go to an economic committee when I don't have an economic education. I'm going to that committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the position of the committee towards your acquaintance has been proven. May I have your attention, please? The first is a motion for the election of the national MP, Michael Ratushna, as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of European integration. [[11:01:26]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The two MPs -- "The Union" and "The One Ukraine" -- require a 30-minute recess to announce the application. If an application is made, please make an application. And I would ask the Regulatory Committee to settle this issue, because we will be constantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I think what I'm about to say concerns everyone. It concerns the fate of Ukraine today, the fate of all, and parliamentaryism in general. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, ten minutes before Boris Kolesnikov was arrested in the Attorney General's Office, a search began in his home and office. Six hundred thousand were surrendered. Dragged money, which will be presented as evidence supported by charges and by a businessman who is now being sheltered and sheltered abroad. This is a confirmation that this operation has been developed for a long time and has been controlled by the Deputy Minister of the Interior of Kolyad, who in due course threw his guns at the office of Grigorishin. I think someone is trying to bring this good news to Washington today to pray for forgiveness and mercy for past sins. I want to tell you that there's been a ten-thousand rally in Donetsk today. I think the protests will increase, because today is the beginning of a political randomness that can touch anyone. You know, two weeks ago, there was information that a targeted programme was being prepared that would deal with the discrediting of leading politicians, leading businessmen up to the landings and drugs and weapons and large amounts of currency. I want to tell you that Boris Kolesnikov is a good person who declares a huge amount of income each year from companies managed by the collegiate representatives. I want to tell you that today this situation can touch each and every one of us, because it's just a first step and a challenge. The Cave District Court has deferred the lawyer's 14-hour hearing to bring us all this disgusting provocation at 1300 hours. That is why I, Vladimir Mihajlovich, ask you, together with the Minister of the Interior, to have Deputy Minister Kolyad, who personally led the search at the apartment, in Boris Kolesnikov's office. I can tell you more. That many leading politicians are already preparing to be discredited today. If any of you think that today I am, he, he, he's gonna get on his knees and watch what's going on, we're wrong. You will understand that Ukraine is now entering a stage where errors and miscalculations of power, which address the economic crisis, the deterioration of people's lives, will be strictly pursued in order to distract public attention by loud deeds. We have the year of Georgia in Ukraine this year. [[Remember! You know that very well.]] And what's going on in Georgia today is you also know very well: arrests and prosecutions are going on. Therefore, no democracy or new society can be spoken of. All of this is being done today with the permission of the country's supreme leadership. That is why we must be united today, regardless of our political beliefs with you, because the next Parliament will be formed solely by a decision of the courts. Those who do not wish to be present in this room will simply be removed from the electoral campaign or challenged after the election results.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u97	Yes, your honorary colleagues, the draft decree to grant approval for the release by the President of the Ukraine of Chechotov Mikhail Vasilovich from office of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is invited to report on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! In due course, according to article 85, paragraph 24, of the Constitution of Ukraine, a proposal was made to grant approval to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Michael Chechchev from office of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. I would like to use literally a few minutes to substantiate this introduction, since the work of the State Property Fund during the entire term of office of the head of the Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtev Foundation since April 2003 has been critically appreciated by both the national deputies and the public, in particular by the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation. Many resonant cases and examples of opaque privatization of individual state property can be mentioned. The most well-known was a competition to privatise an open stockholding company's stockholding package, a case of illegal government share cuts, such as the Oranta National Stock Insurance Company, where it was directly done by the State Property Fund in February 2004. But it is not even a matter of loud scandals involving large businesses but, in fact, that the State Property Fund has ineffectively used its direct functions of government management. Yes, as of 01/01.2005, the investment debt accounted for 277 million dollars, including contracts made by the State Property Fund’s central apparatus, of 204 million dollars, indicating the negative operation of the central apparatus. What conclusions have been drawn directly during this time in order to stop this practice of defaulting on investment commitments? I can only warn that, to date, the State Property Fund has actually withdrawn from considering concrete examples of failure to fulfil investment commitments that have led to the fact that such strategic enterprises located in virtually all regions of Ukraine are not fully controlled today in terms of fulfilling these investment commitments. There is no control over dividends. I can give an example that, for example, out of the 449 million dollars planned for 2004, only 312 million dollars were made available to the State Budget from state-owned entrepreneurial entities. As a result of the vaguely clear norm, we have failed on this issue. In addition, there are a number of questions about the open shareholding company Truboat, the city of Kharkiv, the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, where dividends determined by the State Property Fund during 2000-2004, and if the brothers in 2003-2004 were not actually paid. It's a key factor. The State Property Fund for the time being does not have full inventory data on the total number of property rights objects, a list of monopolies of large enterprises that belong to the public sector of the economy. So the President has every reason to ask you to grant permission for the release of the head of the State Property Fund, Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u99	Since there is a question, please sign up. Please, three minutes. So on the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sergey Vladislavovich, I certainly agree with the President when it comes to what was going on ineffectively. Government property management, but I have a question for you as his representative. Why is Mr. Chechchev's release so late? Why was this not immediately done, for this was evident? Why did the swamp actually continue for two months in the middle of the fund? And will there be a rotation of the personnel and some certification of the personnel of the State Property Fund? And will all decisions that have been tested be checked? I'm particularly interested in the fact that Sitreiden sold the ship literally before this, which belongs to the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u101	I can answer the last question, this question can be addressed directly to the person who, if a positive decision is made by Parliament, will be elected to this office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know the corresponding submission is in progress. It's about why it's so late. For 2 months, they were actually used to analyze the appeal of the Ukrainian people's deputies, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Privatization Supervisory Commission, regarding the general situation of both the State Property Fund and the management of the State Property Fund. So I think to assume that two months is a great time. After all, it was done, in my opinion, a great deal of work in order for the materials to be generalized and passed on to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u102	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u103	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Please pass the word to your colleague Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u104	Alexander Masenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u105	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. That's my question. Well, in my opinion, we don't have the State Property Fund, we have the State Sales Fund. Now, you have to agree that the State Property Fund, in my opinion, should protect state interests and preserve state property, not embezzle it. If that's the case, then we have to call it something else. And with regard to the resignation of the Head of the State Property Fund, in my opinion, he should not only be retired but also be judged as all the previous ones who held the post. What are your views on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u106	You pointed out that the key, even in the short information that I gave, was management, effective management of parts of government property or state enterprises. The figures that have been given only in the recent period show that effective governance of government property has not actually been effective, to say the least. I am no longer talking about even the loud scandals that existed in Ukraine with regard to the privatization of large objects, because in fact all the policies that took place in previous times and especially very fast in recent months before the election of the Supreme Council, and then before the election of the President, were aimed at temporarily selling state-owned property in a hasty manner. And I absolutely agree with you that it is government governance that is the key issue that should be addressed by the State Property Fund and the management of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u107	Sergey Vladislavovich, thank you. Time's up. Please, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u108	Respectable voters! Dear fellow MPs! Mr. President-in-Office.Oh, my God! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property, Investment at the meeting on 23 March reviewed the draft decisions of the President of Ukraine on the approval of the dismissal by the President of Ukraine, Mr. Čechcheva Mikhail Vasiljevic, President of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, and agreed. At the same time, I have to say that the existing and existing State Property Fund, headed by Chechtev, has done everything to meet the predatory ambitions of the ruling regime. Despite the opposition of the Communist faction and largely opposed privatization, including the illegal privatization of most enterprises, elite enterprises were sold, sold at dumped prices. A privatization programme was not adopted, which was primarily opposed by the Communist faction and the Communist deputies. The privatization of strategically important enterprises has not been supported, which we also consider to be the dignity of communists. At the same time, the State Property Fund has done everything to privatize the Supreme Council, under the cover of corporateization. This has been the case: Europe's largest shipbuilding Black Sea shipbuilding plant, through corporateization, contrary to the opinion of the Supreme Council. The price at which it was sold raises doubts and surprises today. Therefore, they will be forced to do so, and it will be necessary to return to pricing at all. And who did the State Property Fund interact with in the formation of the price? I'll give you the only example I'll ever get tired of. Seven hectares of land with an unfurnished Black Sea shipbuilding plant were sold for 80 million bracelets. I sold them to the office. The State Property Fund sold the remaining 300 hectares of land with shops, with construction banks, with feet, with gears for 119 million grevens. How did such a price come about? I don't understand it at all. In general, the State Property Fund, by exercising and exercising the right of ownership of public property, exercised only one function of ownership, use and administration - an order, i.e. the sale of public property not for the benefit of the people, not for the benefit of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues. The question is, Vladimir Josephovich, they want to ask you a question. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. There's a question mark coming up. Three minutes. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u110	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders I would like to know, please tell me, how does your committee react to the questions that I have raised for many years? Including now, I'd like to raise a subject like that. We tried to hide Ukrainian property and hid it under secret government decrees. Sadly, they have been kept secret only to us national deputies. They were sold out by this fund directly during the election and before. Is there a purpose in your committee and there is the political will to carry out checks on such sales, all that went with the griff in secret under the secret government decrees? I'd like to hear it, and I want your committee's control function not to be limited to a report here in the hall, and I want it to be tested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u111	Got it. I would like to ask when you say that we privatized and hid, I would like you to separate from this those who opposed privatization at all. That's the first one. Second. The Committee is a diverse organization, comprising representatives and the ruling regime, oligarchs. They want to do it or they don't want to do it, that's another question. On the committee, we will try, the communists will try to implement this policy. Third. There is a special monitoring commission on privatization, whose functions this includes. And she really opened up enough. If you, Deputy Carmazin, have information and these copies of the protocols, then on the committee we are ready to consider, please contact me. There will be no such questions. And I want to answer the question that you asked Sobolva. Will there be rotation of staff in the Housing Fund? According to what we have, the rotation of personnel has already begun, the entire legal department has already fled from there to the company you know that represents today, well, we will be so, in support of the former president. Former president.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u112	Alexei Babourin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u113	Give me the word of Ekaterine Semenovne Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u114	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Josifovich, please tell us, do you think it is normal that budget holes are managed year after year exclusively by selling unique objects that are not created by this generation but by the previous generation? And do you not think that it is necessary to bring to justice those Ukrainian people's deputies who, by pressing the button, have contributed by their vote to the most attractive budgetary facilities being sold from the hammer? I think it's time to put things in order. And those involved must respond. Not only Chechtev, but also them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u116	Well, first of all, of course, it's really not just Chechtev's fault, but frankly, the whole system of privatization that changed the concept of disintegration, and privatization went to us, and I'm going to say that in the next speech, it became a slave trade, if that's what it was. That's the first one. Second. It is immoral and illegal to fly budget holes through the proceeds of privatization. There is an internal government debt law in 1992, which no one has abolished, which states, 50 per cent of the funds derived from privatization are financed by public programmes. Not one year had been allocated half of the privatization funds to public programmes to be earmarked. I think that all the people's deputies who voted in favour of privatizing those objects that will be returned to public public property today should be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u117	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, before the vote he asks for the word Chechetov Mikhail Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I want to thank you all for your constructive cooperation, for your help, for your support. Secondly, I fully support the proposal of the President of Ukraine. This President's move is absolutely logical, absolutely consistent, absolutely predictable, and it's made in the direction of completing the formation of a new command. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the President's proposal and to vote positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u119	Yes, Your Honor, on the basis of the vote? Okay. Well, please, on the basis of the vote, write it down for three minutes. Please sign up. Vladimir Josephovich Matviev, a faction of Communists
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u120	I ask that you hand over to the head of the Ukrainian Company Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u121	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u122	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction did not vote for any of the Presidents of the Property Fund and would not participate in the Sabbath. Why? Because the faction has repeatedly insisted that the function of the fund should be categorically changed. And it must be a property protection fund, not a fund for looting and looting. Secondly, the faction of communists repeatedly requires that ideologists be held accountable for privatizations such as Pinzenik, Lanovo, Ehanurov, Bondar -- all those who, so to speak, worked and headed the site. Thirdly, to initiate criminal proceedings and investigate why only 8 to 10 billion of the 600 billion dollars from privatization have been received from the State budget. Thus, the conclusion is that it is a system, not a specific frame, that leads to waste of public property and to the destruction of the people. The faction proposes, through nationalization, the establishment of a nationwide indivisible fund of property and the protection of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u123	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u124	Please pass the word to a fellow national MP, Vitalia Šibk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u125	Vitaly Shibko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dnipropetrovština I think the principle of State importance is being considered today. But today there has been a lot of criticism as to whether it is true politics at all when the fund is owned and how it is stolen, including by national deputies, by state property. But unfortunately, I haven't heard anything today, and what did I personally do to the head of the fund? So the chairman of the committee said nothing about the personal involvement of Mikhail Vasilovich in this: Is there a signature, or did he exercise, or did he have an opinion on this? Sadly, that was not said. And I think that, if the question of personnel is being resolved today, it should be heard, including in the conclusions of the committee they spoke with today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u127	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u128	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the head of the fund, is the Supreme Council, as is the head of the House of Auditors. In fact, he was not subordinate to us and did what he wanted to do. We never made him get a clear answer. The question is, what needs to be rectified in current legislation in order for this to be, in fact, the Supreme Council's supervisory office in order for us to have full information about what is being done with looting, looting. Because even the investments that are recorded in the contracts are not investments, it's a disgrace, when in Volina to report on the number of investments, they bring in 100 dollars of wreaths, that's scary stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u129	Larissa Polakov, please. "Democratic Ukraine." Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u130	Thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, I would like to make adjustments to the statement made by the representative of the Committee on Economic Policy, because, when considering the report of the Foundation, the head of the Fund, the Committee has taken a completely different decision than the one from the rostrum. All members of the Committee unanimously recognized that, in view of the fact that all these years, the Housing Fund had been working in an illegal field, because we had never been able to pass the Housing Fund Act, so the evaluation of the Fund was strictly political and was referred to political parties for decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7224: granting approval for the release by the President of Ukraine of Chechtev Mikhail Vasilovich from the post of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[11:28:54]] For 287 Decision taken. The factions? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 80, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 15, People's Party - 26, SPI - 29, Block Timoshenko - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SPU - 1, "Ukraine" - 20, "Dem Ukraine" - 17, SPTU - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, "Union" - 14, "Afterfraction" - 18. Let's thank Mikhail Vasilovich for our work together. Yes, Your Honor, the bill of approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Seminouk W.P. to serve as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Reporter, Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine Semenyuk W.P. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 24, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine applied for the appointment of Valentina Petrovna as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk has long been the head of the Privatization Control Commission. Taking into account the appeals made by the numerous people's deputies of individual factions and groups, the President of Ukraine supported these proposals to Parliament, realizing that the task of today's new leadership of the State Property Fund is, above all, the adoption of the law on the State Property Fund and its urgent consideration in the Hall and, secondly, the introduction of a new concept of government property management, a new concept of privatization, which would address really key issues that concern everyone sitting in the Hall, of those who take part in this process, of those millions and millions of our fellow citizens who work for today in state enterprises or broken businesses. That is why I would like to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u133	Questions, please write down for three minutes. The enrollment on the question is coming. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Ivanzo Ivan Vasilovich, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u134	Thank you. We support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine regarding Seminouk Valentina Petrovna, and we would like only to wish her good, fruitful, self-sustaining work in this area as well as the previous one, where she recommended herself on the positive side. That's why we support your proposal made on behalf of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u135	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u137	George Ponomarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u138	Sergey Vladislavovich, this fund can be called a foundation for the dissipation of the holding. More recently, in the Voice of Ukraine, my colleague, Sirenko, a member of our faction, gave what was the acquisition of the people. Here are the figures: 60 percent of the nation’s acquisition today belongs to 200 families, 20 percent to the State, and 90 percent to the remaining 20 percent. Can you tell me how long it takes for 100 percent of the people's acquisitions to belong to these 200 families? Maybe they'll choke?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u139	I'm the only one that I want to warn you that Valentina Petrovna is fortunately not part of the list of 200 families, and I've been standing by to make sure that in no way does all the privatization processes in Ukraine go beyond the law. But I absolutely agree with the fact that if we don't now resolve the relationship between the State Property Fund, the Ukrainian Parliament and the President, in my own time I have been a reporter for this issue in the past assembly of Parliament, unfortunately this law has always been promised by the previous President. I think that this is a responsibility, including a deadline for this legislative act through Parliament, and then I'm just convinced that 20 percent or so will never be embalmed as it has been in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u140	Matvienkov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u141	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Sergey Vladislavovich! What tasks today, I have heard a great deal about the claims of those who have been to Chechchev. What are the tasks of the property fund today? I understand how the economy, any economy, the privatization process, the mechanism for finding an effective owner, is a process that should push for the development of the enterprise. To create jobs, increase production, investment policies and so on and so on. Today I am hearing more and more, unfortunately, questions about the price. Are we going to give the task of making the greatest profit or sale, or are we going to say that, the property that is? And unfortunately, there is absolutely nothing about how we are going to resuscitate the industry, how we are going to resuscitate those industries that are in bankruptcy, what tasks will today be assigned to the Property Fund and, in particular, to you as the representative of the President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u142	You may have heard in my statement the question of how to obtain funds from privatization was the last in the list that stood. The key issue was the effective management of state-owned property and state-owned enterprises, the question of fulfilling investment commitments, where one of the key issues is the creation of additional jobs, the efficient use of this property. And the third question that's been put at the heart of this is the payment of dividends by government parts, or by state ownership directly into the state's budget. And only then was the question: the effectiveness of selling businesses. This is me, maybe in this context, and I would totally support your speech, and I think that this is a task that should be put in the privatization programme and in the programme that deals directly with the effective management of the state ownership of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u143	Yes. Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich, please sit down. Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property and Investment is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u144	The distinguished voters, the distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, Larissa Polakov, the deputy of Polakov, speaking here, rightly said that the Committee had not taken a decision on any candidature and had not discussed it and decided on it. Indeed, it is a political decision because the Committee, and here in the Supreme Council, has different economic interests, different interests, returns, interests of different groups and groups, including the former President, including the economic interests of the factions that now support the President-elect, so the solution must be political. The household fund, whoever heads it, has a very difficult task. This complex task is to return to public public property what must be profited to the State, to return the notion of disintegration instead of the notion of privatization that will be here. And, of course, the first programme, which should be the Public Property Fund Programme, is a fund for efficient economic governance, effective governance of public property. Regrettably, the draft documents presented to the working group on privatization, on the effective management of public property, are again pursuing cost management rather than capacity management, not economic power management, which is in the State. Therefore, the Supreme Council will decide who will be the chairman of the State Property Fund, but the Supreme Council will have to realize what is before it, that is, to return its property to the people, and to return its assets to the people. We're helping the State Property Fund, we're helping the Supreme Council. The Communist faction proposed a draft Act on the Nationalization of State Property. And we wanted the draft law to be passed in the Supreme Council as soon as possible, to be approved and signed by the President and to begin the work of the State Property Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u145	Thank you. Any questions to Vladimir Josephovich? None. Yes. Please sign in, then three minutes. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I wanted to ask you, please tell me if the committee is planning to work more closely with the State Property Fund right now. And is the committee planning to develop a mechanism to make sure that the State Property Fund is not viewed simply as an agency for the sale of state property, as it has been in recent years, but as an effective owner. It's because the state has now created different national stockholder companies and so on, which is a nonsensus of law and law in general. What is a national stock company? You know, you have to get back to those questions sooner or later. Well, they piled it up in Kuchma's time, but we have to push it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u147	You're absolutely right when you talk about national stockholders. The Communists support your point of view in this regard. Our interaction with the Committee in the area of interaction, the Committee in the area of interaction with the State Property Fund, will primarily be based on the State Property Fund Act. Because any other interaction would be illegal or outside the legal field. Therefore, we would like to rely primarily on the law and put the issues of disintegration back into the legal field, if necessary, as well as nationalization issues such as counterflows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u148	Alexeyev, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Baburin Alexi Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u150	Alexei Babourin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u151	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Vladimir Yosifovich, I have this proposition. What if today we do not elect the President of the Statemayne Foundation and even abolish it as a structure to halt the further looting of State property? And if it doesn't work out, then I have a second sentence. Change the name of the fund. To name his Fund for the Sale of Remnants of State Property. Your attitude towards my proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u152	The proposal may happen, yes, it may happen, but it depends, it's over, not on us with you, not even on the Communist faction, but as those present in the room vote, that's the first. Second. Finally, the fund can be named as it may be, or whatever it may be called, we have the rights of the people's deputies in this regard. It is desirable, however, that functions conform to the name and performance of the name. If the State Property Fund changes its functions, that is to say, it will start managing public property, it will be the State Property Fund. If he stays only in the position of order, that is, the sale, of course, could be renamed. It is then that we will make joint proposals with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u153	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, time is up. Dear colleagues, Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk is likely to be asked. Do we need to listen to information? Why don't we ask you a question? Please, Valentina Petrovna Seminouk. Let's take 10 minutes for questions, answers. Please sign up for the questions, dear colleagues. Why don't you sign up for me? Yeah, on the board. Eugene Gorenik. Vladimir Leschenko will be next to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u154	Valentina Petrovna, I want to ask you this question. Now, the question was, how many enterprises do we have privatized with breaking legislation -- is it 30 or three thousand? You've been leading the commission for a long time, the Supreme Council control committee. You've actually analyzed these privatization processes, how many lawbreakers are there, how many who haven't made investment commitments? So your steps in this particular post in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. And what I'm saying is that the performance of the investment obligation was in the field of control of the special control commission. And the references that were, we considered them, and we accordingly made informed decisions, necessarily with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Attorney General’s Office. With regard to the number of companies that had a violation that were the subject of the commission's consideration, they could be called not so many, but I can't even name them by memory right now, because they are a constant consideration every week at the meeting. As for the calculations, if we are privatized in the Bolslav region of Lviv Hospital, part of the hospital — the infectious ward, the laundry and the boiler room — it was purchased by three representatives, counting three objects or counting it as one whole property complex? That's why the figures that the Prime Minister is talking about today, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, can come from how to calculate this number of objects. I want to say, the subject of a special review committee that was looking at violations of legislation, they were constantly informed in the session hall, and I can't say by quantity today, because the issue of effectiveness control refers directly to the competence of the holding fund. And as I get elected to such a position, such information will continue to enter the session hall. This must be a continuous process of failure to fulfil the investment obligation, if not implemented, then the State Property Fund is referred to the court, and after the court's decision to terminate the sale contract. This is the procedure envisaged by Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u156	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u157	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valentino Petrovno! As the head of the special control commission, you certainly had an influence, but you did not have a great influence: as was the state property fund, so did he. So if you get approved, I think you won't have a great influence either, and it's still going to be a fund of dissipation. But answer the following questions: how do you feel about the nationalization of such basic enterprises as Crevistal, Crucifixion, and how do you feel about the offer of communists to create a national independent property fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u158	Thank you. And I want to say that I'm not in charge of the State Property Fund, I've been working in the session hall for 11 years, I've been head of the commission for almost three years. And the Special Monitoring Commission, you've seen in this room many times, those critical remarks and critical decisions made by the Special Monitoring Commission. And I think they're going to give themselves to MPs and voters who have heard about the work being done by the Special Monitoring Commission and Deputy Seminyuk, a socialist. That's the first one. The other one. All you call according to the legislative proposals, the Nationalization of the Fund, is Parliament's decision, because Parliament adopts the relevant legislative acts. And I'm the only one who's going to accept these documents, and then the State Property Fund is going to execute these relevant legislative acts. As far as the fund is concerned, I want to say: The Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which will be considered tomorrow in the first reading, for which I have sought, starting in 1994, when I came to Parliament, then I spoke about the creation and registration of state property and the corresponding funds in order to support the state sector of the economy. Because that small amount of property left in the hands of the state today is already a critical limit to economic security. And we need state-owned enterprises to work effectively. We have to have an appropriate legislative document. That's why I'm going to Parliament to do both inventory and register state property. But today I hope not only to support the assignment, but also to have to come to this session hall and along with you to adopt appropriate legislative documents that regulate the preservation of both state property and municipal property and the adoption of relevant legislation on shareholders and so forth. All these questions will be settled together. And I think my job today is to get the State Property Fund back to him as a real trust fund, which would also have a law on the State Property Fund, which should be clear even on the transfer of portfolios from one official to another. Semenyuk came, created a register, went through the right period -- going to rest or go to work in another structure. There's a law on the State Property Fund, there's an act of handing over the portfolios, so I read it. The same should be true of changing governance in state enterprises. And that's what we're going to have to do with you guys, taking a document like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u159	Please, Oleg Zarubinski. Behind him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Valentina Petrovna, we have had a very constructive and fruitful meeting with you today at the faction, and I can tell my colleagues today that most of the questions that our faction members have asked you have been answered in a very good way. I think the prognosis of a positive vote on your candidacy is clear. But I'd like to ask one of the questions that we've been asking you, as they say, to publish, to publish yours, I think, the right position. It was about these subjects in the social sphere and, above all, about education. Children’s Gardens. First of all, kindergartens. School. Which are being scattered today, and we know that very well. But we all hope that the social sphere will be restored. Are you not in your plans to create a data bank, a clear register of all these objects, so that they can be controlled so that all of us can use them for people, not for individual businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u161	I thank you for the questions and I want to say that the Special Monitoring Commission, you know, in 2003, even held parliamentary hearings on the preservation of the social sphere, because there were a lot of distortions in the formation and privatization of social facilities that remained on the balance sheet of state-owned enterprises, were not included in statutory funds, and managers often confuse what the value of the statutory fund is, and what it remains on the balance sheet. Even if it is privatized, it only gives you the right to use it, and it is ready to do so gradually, according to legislation, to transfer it to municipal property. This law should be in the Law on the Rights of Municipal Property and this is reflected in it. So when I talk about the register of government property, I'm going to talk about what needs to be a clearly defined mechanism for creating a register of social objects. And I want to say that after the parliamentary hearings, part of the work has already been done by the State Property Fund. And there is now a corresponding mandate of the President, the Prime Minister, that such suitable social facilities should be created in the regions, and that municipal property also have adequate registers so that we can know what the district, district, city, and rural councils are doing today, and we will have to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u162	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u163	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Vitalia Šibk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u164	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u165	Thank you. Valentino Petrovy, I know that many complaints have been made today about the work of the foundation itself, and much depends on that we have no law on this subject, and you have just been working on this committee and you have been working on a law that has not passed here. That's my question to you. First. Do we need any help from Parliament in order to work out this law and prove it? And is it conceptually up to you that if we are to work on this bill, there is also a topic of reprivatization as a topic that is necessary, where it exists in all civilized countries, because not only must we take care of privatization, but also in case of bankruptcy of production, there should be law, and there should be no less lawsuits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u166	Thank you, Vitalia Yakovich, for asking. I want to say that the State Property Fund Act has been introduced into the session hall more than six times and has been vetoed accordingly, and there is currently no such document. And at the beginning of her speech, she said that the appointment meant both supporting me as a physical person as a colleague. At the same time, without your help, without the help of the session hall, without the adoption of this document, working at the holding fund will be very and very difficult. That is why I hope for support. All that stuff you said about the law on reprivatization, this law is completely unrelated to the law on state property. And this bill should be adopted in the session room and these issues should be discussed in plenary. I also want to say that when we are being used in the media today, that it is rape, the State Property Fund, and the new, today's fault, that we are being reprivatized. So what I'm saying is that there's a lot of confusion between people doing their investment commitments and the reprivatization mechanism. There is no law on reprivatisation in Ukraine, and today you will need to deal with the executive power, settle this issue in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u167	Korgee, Julia Timoshenko's Cell Block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u168	I give the word to Yuri Grigorovich Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u169	Oleg Belarus, Julia Timoshenko's Cell Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u170	Dear Valentina Petrovna, we know you as a very distinguished actress and expert, but there are two questions: First, the oligarchs are today mass-exporting money and money into the state property fund abroad and that is a crime. He does so by means of court procedures that are sold in this case, including Pechersk. What do you think you're doing? That's one question. And secondly, government property is not just a transfer to private property, it's also a return to government property. Do you recognize the function of the State Property Fund, by the way, of the oil refineries that we've lost, as a state, as a country?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u171	Thank you. Oleg Grigorovich, thank you for asking. And what I'm saying is that today, in fact, the privatization of state property is not only done by the State Property Fund, but there are other normative documents. The law on the characteristics of privatization gives the Ministry of Defence the right to privatize. We had this function before, and it was done by Crossbow. There are ways to privatize through additional emissions. That's what the Special Supervisory Commission was up against, and that Supreme Council decision that was adopted as a result of parliamentary hearings that reflected all these points. So what I want to say is that the issue of exporting funds abroad is not only a matter of the State Property Fund, but also of regulatory settlement of these issues in the session room and of what needs to be done in the settlement of these issues. As for the oil and gas complex, you know that in this session room we passed a law banning privatization and substituting parts of state property that are still in Ukraine today. Everything else needs to be analyzed and spoken in terms of the conclusions I'm going to see in the State Property Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u172	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. On the basis of the vote, Michael Dobkin, Bystriga, Simonenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u173	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to draw attention to the fact that we have a wrong system when we log in from the scene, because they are always only three factions able to speak. And the view of the rest of the factions can never be told what you want to say on this issue. First. And the second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I would like to ask the question in this way. Because people in the Government today also hold high positions in the executive branch, they remain members of the people, and they do not even want to become members of the delegation. Perhaps when we elect a national deputy to an executive post, we will also ask in the package the question of deputizing him. Because they say they don't want to be deputies, but all questions are then settled through court. Why don't we put this question to the vote and the Chairman's Statemayan Foundation, and vote for the first time?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u174	Bystriga, please, is a faction of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, we will today receive and approve the new Head of the State Property Fund. I would like this person to be protected from all those Governments that change very often, so that this person works only by law and not by telephone from one or the other Cabinet. Our faction will support Valentina Petrovna so that we can adopt her to this post and wish that these are the statements of the Government that we have heard for many years: the shadow economy, the State Property Fund, opened and lit a light in this shadow. And we know how to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u176	Peter Simonenko, then Mastermaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u177	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respectable voters, respected colleagues. The Communist faction would not vote for the following reasons. All the previous activities of the State Property Fund have shown that the Chairman is a pawn in the hands of the system. Privatization resulted in the passing of national property, our property and, as a result, only a separate group of clans was enriched. All the fund presidents worked on an order. The fund only served the interests of the Mafia clans. Ideologists and implementers of the privatization programme, i.e. looting, are all working in today's Government, Yushchenko. This, once again, is Lanova and Ehanur, and the same Pinzenic, they all started it. Instead of the oligarchs in the Kuchma district, the reallocation of property came from exactly the same oligarchs only from the Yushchenko district. The Government, which today includes representatives of nationalists and socialists, has already planned six billion from privatization for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u178	Vladimir Mystrishyn, please, faction of the People's Party. There's nothing to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u179	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. We supported Valentina Petrovna's candidacy today when she was at a faction meeting today. But we'd like to make those warnings and let you know what the issue of the holding fund is today. You see, in the 2005 budget, these figures were initially set, in the current budget of 5 billion 024 million, and then somehow the government is increasing this amount of privatization of 5 billion. 339 million, then increases again the amount of 6.9 billion. The bracelet, at the same time, does not increase the amount of the loan. I have a question: why are we taking on the magnitude of privatization today instead of going on the size of the loan? This, in our view, is completely unwise. To date, we still need to prepare our assets for privatization and make effective privatization, perhaps next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u180	Yes, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Please prepare for the vote. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Seminouc Valentina Petrovna, as chairman of the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, will be put to the vote. [[Registration number 7225]] Please vote. [[12:03:00]] For 313 Decision taken. Let's welcome Valentina Petrovna with the appointment or approval of the President of Ukraine to head the State Property Fund, and we wish to work together in a fruitful way with the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] By factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 72, Communists - 0, "Regions of Ukraine" - 31, People's Party - 29, SPU - 29, Block Timoshenko - 26, Ukrainian People's Party - 24, SDPU - 2, "One Ukraine" - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, industrialists and entrepreneurs - factions - 12, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, "The Union" - 14, "The 14, "The Non-Flocked - 22. The decision was taken by 313 votes. Dear colleagues, are we going to take a break or are we going to consider the appointment of judges? A technological break is announced for up to 12 hours for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u181	Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich. Is Mikola Vasilovich there? First Deputy Head of the Legal Policy Committee. Invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u182	Your Honourable Head, distinguished national MPs, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Court! The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, has received the Supreme Court's Supreme Court headship, as well as the appointment of the Supreme Economic Court in a section of the judges who will be elected to the Supreme Economic Court for the election of judges on an uninterrupted basis. The Committee of Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered this submission and proposes to your attention the relevant draft rulings on this issue, such as draft Decree No. 7269 on the election of judges. According to article 85, paragraph 27, part 1 of article 128 of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u183	Mikola Vasilovich, one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make this happen: the first deputy head of the committee will read what the court and the surnames are. If you have a warning against a given last name, you're warning me, and we're not going back to the other candidates. Do we have a deal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u184	Thank you. To elect, inter alia, judges on an open-ended basis: the Court of Appeal of the Winnick district of Masli Volodymyr Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Karpuk Alla Constantine; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Borisenko Petar Trochymovitch and Vadovsk Ludmila Mikolayevna; The Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Kuznietsov Olen Anatolyevna; The local Cosyatian Regional Court of the Vinnitsk district of Voronyuk, Valentina Arsentiyevna; Local. District Court of the Wynnick district of Tuchinska Natala Vasilovna; the local Nemirov court of the Viennese Region of Namenka Sergey Mihajlovich; The local Zamostian District Court of the town of Medina Volodymyr Mihajlovich. The local industrial district court of Dnipropetrovska Noschenka Igor Svetoslavovic. The local Samar district court of Dnipropetrovska Chus Oksana Volodymyrovna The local Grand Canyon District Court of the Donetsk Region, Jefimenek Viktor Ivanovich. The local Novoazov district court of the district of Belchenko Larissa Anatoliyevna The local Yellow District Court of Mariupol Donetsk district of Chuck Eugen Vasilovich. A local district court in Donecka Kuznietsov, Vadim Aleksandrovitch. The local Royal District Court of Žitomir Kochotava Leonida Glibovic. Local Basilov district court of the district of Zaporozhye Oleg Grigorovich. The local Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye District of Paul Svetlana Fedorovna The local Alexandrian District Court of Kirovograd district of Petrov Olga Fedorovna The local Yellow District Court of the Mikolai district of Seminovo Ludmila Mikhailnov The local Okjabre District Court of Poltava Andrianko Hanna Viacheslavovna The local Sarnin district court in the district of Long Igor Ivanovich. The local Kupian District Court of Kharkiv Kovalenko Oksana Anatoliyevna The local Lubotic City Court of Kharkiv district of Kokosha Vladimir Viktorovich. The local Shevchenkovsky District Court of Chernovci Cheban Victoria Mikolayevna Ladies and gentlemen, your list also contains the name of Chebukin's Maria Juliusovna, who was introduced as the trial of the local Dniprovsky District Court of Herson, stands before the last. However, on the proposal of the committee, in view of the additional comments made, the committee requests that the application not be considered in connection with the need for further study.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, the committee has reported its proposals. As far as I can tell, you didn't get a warning. We have every reason to put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7269: “To elect judges” except for Chibukina Marina Juryivna. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[12:38:07]] For 322 I'll take the order. Dear colleagues, I was in a hurry and did not say that the Supreme Court Chief Malarenko Vasil Timothyovich, who is always present on such matters, shows respect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft ruling number 7269-1 on the election of the judges of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, such as Dzubin Vijeslava Viktorovich, Prijuk Marija Vasilovna, and Sluzar Tetjana Andriyevna. There is no reference to the activities of the judges. The committee recommends that these judges be elected without delay as judges of the Kyiv Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, do you have any concerns about the committee's proposals? I can't see. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7269-1]] Please vote. [[12:39:32]] For 341 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed for the following project, number 7270, which is the Supreme Council's ruling on the election of the judges of the system of Master Courts, in particular: elect the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine's Supreme Court of Panowa Irina Yuriyovna, the Kyiv Interdistrict Court of Appeal – the Lobaña Alexandre Illić, and the Luhana Court of Appeal – Borodyna Larissa Ivanovna and Yakushenko Rais Evgenyevna. There are also no comments to the judges in question, and the committee recommends that the judges be selected on an unscheduled basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! No warnings about the committee's proposal? None. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges, registration number 7270, is submitted to the vote. Please vote. [[12:40:44]] For 318 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! The authority of the Supreme Council includes not only the appointment of judges but also the release of judges from office. Therefore, your opinion is proposed for a draft ruling in connection with the application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the High Council of Justice regarding the release of judges from office. This is draft Decree No. 7271. I will immediately point out that the dismissal of judges from office is solely due to their claims, particularly in connection with applications for resignation in connection with the achievement of a maximum age of judicial service, particularly 65 years, and with the fact that some judges have already served 20 years as judges and have the right to resign while maintaining all necessary preferences as judges. Those who were well - meaning in their position. In particular, a draft exemption order is being introduced, in particular: Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Kuzmenko Valentina Pavlovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Ivan Petrovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Vasilka Jurija Alexandrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Morozko Roman Mikhailovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Nazarenko, Victoria Anatoliyovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties. This is the only judge who has made a statement on these very grounds. According to a medical expert, she became disabled, so she's asking to be released. Judges of the Court of Appeal of Mikolaiiv Region: Kostuchenko Stanislav Volodymyrovich in connection with the application for resignation. The judges of the same court of Savisko Anastasia Petrovni, in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the Tivrovsky District Court of the Vinnitsk Region, Danilishin Stanislav Maksimovich, in connection with the application for resignation. The judge of the Pavlovgrad Regional Court of Dnipropetrov - Zemsov Ljubov Viktorovna, also in connection with the application for resignation. Judge of the District Court of Dnipropetrovsk, Valentin Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation. And the judge of the local military court of the Eupatoria garrison - crane Alexander Alexandrovitch, in connection with the application for resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u191	Question, one minute, I ask you to open the document that you have -- it says, "in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasilka Jurija Alexandrovich, judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev, statement. In accordance with article 126, part 5, of paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 9. By paragraph 1, article 25 and article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, please release me from my post as Judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev. The decision to be released was taken without partial influence. Or forced. June 8, 2004, last name, signature. Please write your questions down for three minutes, please. Yes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Leonid Chernewicki, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished radio listeners, I would like to remind you that Judge Vasilenko is a hero of our time, a man who has brought criminal proceedings against the former President of Ukraine. I'm not in favour of without, I don't have a reason, there, to press charges against him, but I can tell you that he acted courageously. That's when we all screamed "Uh-oh!" President Kuchme. And then its Supreme Qualifications Commission took and eliminated, together with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I think he could have been tortured, whatever he was doing with him. As long as he's not here, don't vote for his release. Let him tell us what his ideas are. Maybe his hands or his hands were slamming that door or something else they were doing to him. That's what the Communists say they're willing to take him in. He's a hero!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u193	Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all share our colleague's opinion that judges who are now retiring in connection with their achievements in particular at the age of 65 and who have worked 33-32 years in a judicial capacity are worth thanking on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their fruitful and long-term work. As far as Judge Vasilenko is concerned. I emphasize that Judge Vasilenko was born in 1940 and is 65 years old in the current year. This is the age limit, which according to the Constitution of Ukraine allows a judge to work. Thus, Judge Vasilenko leaves the office with honor as a person who has reached the age limit and naturally has the right to be released from office as judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u195	Please, Catherine Samuel. Dear colleagues, you're a lawyer, you have to abolish the law first and continue the age. Well, the law requires you. That's what the Constitution requires.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u196	I beg you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pass on the word to Vladimir Dmitrovich Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u197	Valery Dmitrovich Mishur, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u198	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Today, there is a great wave of discharges from various posts. I want to tell Mr. Chernewsky that the faction of Communists never shouted at Kuchmi, let's say neither Kravczuk nor Yushchenka screamed there. And we don't need to talk about these things. But today there are so many, we have never had so many judges released immediately. I have a question to the reporter, have you met every judge on the grounds of dismissal? Because let’s talk about how we get to work, we must study the situation with everyone. I'm afraid there might be some pressure, despite what someone wrote there, he might refuse. Well, you're a lawyer, you know how it is. I have a question, have they met with each judge individually?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u199	A fellow officer, a committee, realizing that cases of dismissal of judges are not only voluntary, but there are different situations in life, very carefully referring to applications for dismissal of judges, in view of the fact that he is considering the application of the High Council of Justice on this matter. And we are in the presence of the representatives of the High Court of Commerce, if any, of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, of the Higher Qualifying Committees, of the High Council of Justice, always find out in detail whether there was a fact of coercion or circumstances, such as administrative pressure or otherwise, which would serve as a basis for making a statement. In this case, the committee has established that there is no basis for the concerns you have expressed. All judges, I stress, who have applied voluntarily, have already reached the necessary price either of their age, or of their 20 years of judicial service, which allows them to retire, having all the preferences of judges to be grateful to society for their many years of work. The fact that many judges today simply coincided with time. The deadlines were over, and this was the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u200	Onopenko, head of the committee, please provide further clarifications from the committee on the development of the positions of the first deputy so that we can make an informed decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u201	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I support the explanation of Mikli Vasilovich. And what I want to say is that all of these candidatures that we're talking about, discharge from different motives, they were discussed at the High Council of Justice. The head of the Supreme Court, Vasil Timfiyovich Malerenko, sits here. I am a member of the High Council of Justice. We discussed each candidate, including. Mikhailovich and Vasilka. He showed a desire to enjoy well - deserved recreation. We therefore have no basis for doubting a certain candidate today. Including the committee, there were no questions raised. I think we should satisfy the submission of the High Council of Justice presented by Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention to prepare for the vote? And I want to make it clear that a judge who's 65 years old can't do justice. One minute, one minute! Do you want to do it again? Sign up, three minutes. Please sign in. They didn't call you. Three minutes, please sign in. On the board is the name of the National Deputies. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u203	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, with regard to this particular issue, I think the situation here is quite clear. It's very good that we're in the session room very carefully considering candidates and we're not voting for appointments or layoffs just mechanically, but in this case, I think this draft decision is very balanced, and I suggest that our faction support the committee's full position and vote in this case, because we often, when we discuss one issue, touch on important issues but not directly related to them. So let's vote now. And what's not about this question, but what's important is we're going to consider when we're dealing with the right questions or the different ones. Now let's support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u204	Vladimir Leschchenko. Well, it takes three minutes to run out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u205	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Your Honor, I personally, and I think my colleagues support the committee's proposal, but I'd like to ask you the next question. I asked the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine about Judge Nikolaynko of the Corob Region of Chernigiv district, which you know has been misplaced. This was discussed by the committee at the time, both by the Supreme Court, and by the Supreme Council of Justice. Until then, I have not received an answer, have you considered the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Council to my address? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u206	Your appeal came to the committee, and it takes the necessary action. In particular, we have referred to the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s submission, which usually resubmits such submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration, a comprehensive consideration of the issue of the judge you have referred to. I think that in the near future, the Committee on Legal Policy will return to this issue, depending on the position of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u207	Well, you don't have to look for scandalous reasons. Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u208	Dear Nikolai Vasilevich, two moments. First of all, I think that colleagues who are trying to create a topic here are trying to understand why situations have arisen, in fact, should stop. It's sitting in a full bed of judges, and we're starting to show how we're breaking the laws that we've adopted here. I have another offer. You think maybe there's a point to making changes to the law, and that a judge who's 65 years of age should resign automatically, well, as is done with the public. And if there is a special value to this person, then it can be redesigned, once again following the procedure of a new appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u209	Well, as far as the last one is concerned, we have to make changes to the Constitution because it sets a time limit for the judges of the system of general jurisdiction and the judges of the Constitutional Court. As far as your proposal is concerned by the procedure itself, let's consult, perhaps we can introduce a bill that might unify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u210	Stepan Cloud, microphone. Please don't press us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u211	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! Judge Vasilenko is a special judge who had courage when everything and everyone was silent, he held the principle position. And I would ask you not to rush today, it's not burning, especially that by the age of 65 there's still more than six months in Wasilka. And we would set a fine example of respect for an honest, principled person who served the third branch of authority faithfully. So when we consider the issue of liberation next time, we invite Vassilka here to the rostrum. We would be interested in listening and thanking you. That would be a good example for the entire judicial corps. So I ask you to postpone consideration of this issue today and move on to another time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I read article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine: "The judge shall be released from office by the authority that has chosen him, or appointed in the event of the conclusion of the term for which he has been elected or appointed, the achievement of a judge of 65 years, the inability to exercise his powers under the state of health, the violation by the judge of the requirements of non-compliance, the violation of the oath by the judge, the acquisition of legal force by an arraignment against him, the termination of citizenship," and so on. So today the Supreme Council follows the Constitution. As for "thank you," if we make a decision, we all thank you. For another procedure, please make a draft decision, and we'll consider it. The bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 7271, on the dismissal of judges, is now being voted on. Please vote. Let's make a decision and then thank you. Please vote. [[12:56:06]] For 289 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let us welcome the judges appointed on term and judges who have faithfully served the legal term. Your applause is considered a unanimous assessment, confirming the decision we have made. Thank you. What? Please support him. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you that at 1300 hours we will hear information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the circumstances of the detention of the head of the Donetsk District Council of Kolesnikov. Both the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs have arrived at our meeting. The Attorney General was, like, one minute. Dear colleagues, we agreed that this would be the information. So let's do that before. Dear colleagues, we've talked to the Attorney General before, with the Minister of Internal Affairs, they're asking for five minutes for information, and 10 minutes for questions that will arise in the National Deputies. No warning? It's a deal. Then the General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Piscoon Svetoslav Mihajlovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u213	Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding my speech, which clearly states that I have no right to make information on a particular criminal case with regard to the presentation of the material of the case. But given that there is such a desire in society -- to hear the Attorney General -- and to the MPs on Kolesnik's detention, I will do this information, and I will report as much as possible to the honourable Parliament. Thus, on March 25, 2005, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, a criminal case was brought against the head of the Donetsk District Council of People's Deputies, Kolesnik Boris Viktorovich, on the grounds of the crime envisaged in article 189 of Part 4 of Ukraine, namely, “Requirement for the transfer of foreign property or the right to property by a public official using his service position with the threat of murder, which caused property damage in particular large quantities”. The judicial investigation in this case was entrusted to the Office of the Chief Investigator of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. 05.04 In accordance with the requirements of article 112, "Substance" of Ukraine, criminal proceedings have been taken into account for the implementation of the main investigating authorities of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Within the scope of this criminal investigation, 06.04. 05 Koleznikov was detained in accordance with article 115 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure. The wheelhouse is guaranteed the right to protection, and lawyers have been working with it since the first minute of detention. At present, Kolesnikov is suspected to be in the isolation unit of Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kiev. Kolesnik’s health is satisfactory. Today and yesterday, he was subjected to medical examinations. In the same case, a number of searches were conducted in Donetsk on the basis of court rulings yesterday. The circumstances of Kolesnik’s suspicion of committing a crime, suspicion, do not allow other circumstances to be made public at this time. In addition, it should be noted that the introduction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is a criminal case of assault on the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine, i.e. secession. In this criminal case, a scientific and legal analysis has been carried out that has confirmed in the actions of a number of persons the existence of a criminal offence, as provided for in article 2 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, article 110, "Infringements on territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine". Among these individuals who appear in the second criminal case are the names of Kolesnikov. This is comprehensive information that can be brought to your attention by taking into account the requirements of the mystery of the investigation and the situation for today. The public will be informed of further investigations into these criminal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! The information has been completed by the Attorney General, please register with the Attorney General. Ten minutes. Please note the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u215	Yuri Klukkowski, Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Please give the floor to the national deputy, Paul Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u216	Paul Kachur, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u217	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Your Honor, the Attorney General, I understand that this detention has caused enormous social resonance, including in the session room. Of course, it is not clear why some bandits are already planted and others quietly continue to walk in freedom. You were in Donetsk on October 31st, 93. I can give a personal witness as the person in charge who was detained gave instructions to criminal structures, that's when. When the room was about to be captured, the meeting of "Our Ukraine" was to be held. But I have a question for you: don't you think that's what the Attorney General's Office is?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u218	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u219	I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u220	Please, Alla Alexandrovska, please. Dear colleagues, please make up your questions for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u221	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Sveslav Mihajlovich, a statement by President Yushchenk in Donbass, was widely featured in the press at a meeting with Donbass's political assets. Where he said and I read it myself, the text of his statement said that he would not forget those who called for federalization and said that he would get them all to sit. Could it be understood that the implementation of this provision is reflected in the actions taken by the Office of the Prosecutor-General? That's the first question. Second, were there criminal proceedings on separatism that had been made during all the events in western Ukraine, when local authorities and officials had taken appropriate decisions, so were criminal cases brought on those facts?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u222	On the first question. With regard to the claim that there will be some pressure on the investigation or on the prosecutor, on the basis of any thought of breaking criminal cases, it's totally off. As far as separatism is concerned. In fact, we've had such a criminal case, because we're not exactly experts on this issue, we've commissioned legal expertise. The relevant institutions of state and law and other institutions that can be experts on this issue, several academics, doctors of science, have taken part in these legal expertise and have given us the conclusion that the actions of individuals are marked by separatism. According to these findings, this is the conclusion of this expertise, the Attorney General’s Office, and will present the charges and conduct the investigation. The thing is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u223	May I have your attention, colleagues, on the other side of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u224	I'll tell you what I'm talking about. No charges were brought against the cousin. I understand what you're saying, Kolesnikov has not yet been charged with separatism, and no one has ever been charged with it before. He was questioned. Or you're listening to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u225	Attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u226	He was questioned several times in a criminal case as a witness.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u227	And the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u228	In the western areas, no such criminal cases were committed. If. I'll explain if. We didn't have the right answers, first of all, I didn't see the right references in my time of work. That's the first one. Second, if. Wait a minute, if such appeals come today, and they're confirmed by the material of the case, we're going to break this criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u229	Alexander Paklusenko. May I have your attention, please? Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u230	I have a specific question for you. We had a group of deputies last night. We are outraged and surprised to see why you, the Attorney General, did not answer three basic questions. First, when was the crime against Kolesinkov committed? What's the evidence base? And the third question, most importantly, is how appropriate is the measure to curb its content? That's three questions. In addition, the question is as follows. The lawyer went to him after six hours of detention. In this regard, we ask that Mrs. Karpachev address here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u231	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u232	I cannot report to the deputies or even to a group of deputies the material of a particular criminal matter. This is forbidden by the law of Ukraine. I'm not reporting on Gongada, I'm informing. But it's the material of the case. I've informed you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u233	Mukhin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u234	Stanislav Mikhailovich, I have a question. It's about Gongada that's just been asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u235	He refused to answer the Attorney General, says he has no right. So let us continue to ask questions. What are you offering me? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u236	Stanislav Mikhailovich, look here. Stanislav Mikhailovich, by the way, the question of Gongad. We are watching very closely the President's visit to the United States. Speaking at a press conference, Viktor Andreevich said that not only the specific perpetrators of Gongadze's murder were known to date, but also the clients. I understand that you know them, and you won't answer from the rostrum right now who they are, but do you say yes or no, well-known customers? As for specific cases involving some of our Ukrainian citizens who have turned to their throats and killed a lot of people, they must be in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u237	As far as the first question is concerned, what is known in a criminal case and can be brought as far as possible to society, as far as possible, and will not interfere with the investigation, the Public Prosecutor's Office has to do with it through the media. Maybe even more. What anyone is saying, I can't track down everything that's said in the press, but to say that today something is done specifically on the case, I don't have a right either.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u238	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Timoshenko bloc
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u239	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Mr. Prosecutor, I've sent you an application to file a criminal case against Kuchma, Medvedczuk, Yanukov and Kiwalov for organizing nationwide foreclosures of the elections. You haven't given me an answer yet. But I would like to hear from you the answer: will those who staged the counterfeiting and falsification of elections on a global scale be organized? You're investigating some people with specific facts. But these are units. We have 32 grand. the electoral districts and all the polling stations, the President, with his immediate surroundings, has engaged in the falsification of the elections. Will they be responsible for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u240	I'm reporting. First, 287 criminal cases involving violations of Ukrainian presidential law were violated by the prosecutor’s office. Today, in three months, 160 criminal cases have been investigated and brought to justice. Some of them have already been examined by the court, and there are judgments on these matters — almost half of them. Yeah? Next. As for the Central Election Commission and the server, interfering with the server. The other day we're taking this case from the Ukrainian Security Service about the server that the Attorney General's Office is about to conclude, because there are officers of the appropriate second and third categories, and this is the undersecurities of the Attorney General alone, and we're going to finish the investigation. We will also be ready to bring charges against members of the CLTC who have influenced the outcome of the elections in the very near future, and the case will be closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u241	Thank you, sit down, please. Interior Minister Yuri Lucenko is invited to the rostrum. I said, "Dear colleagues, five minutes for information and ten minutes for questions." You said yes. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u242	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! I bring it to your attention that on March 25th of this year, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office has violated criminal case number 491502 under article 189 of the Fourth Criminal Code of Ukraine for the fact that the transfer of foreign property is required by a service person, using his duty position with the threat of murder, which has caused property damage to a particularly large extent. This article provides for seven to 17 years of confiscation of property. By investigating the case, I still can't give you, let's say, operational investigation data, but I understand that you're going to ask the question, what kind of case is political or criminal? It's a criminal matter. The investigation found that the head of the Donetsk district council of the people’s deputies of Kolesnickov by threatening the appropriate citizens with murder demanded that they be transferred to him and to the other designated persons by the actions belonging to those citizens. Three assassination attempts were carried out on the person for whom the action was required: once by explosion and twice by automatic weapons. What's the policy, reverend? Natural banditry. March 28th, the case for further investigation is addressed to the Chief Investigation Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. On April 5, the case for further investigation is addressed to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Yesterday I was in a service assignment in Kazakhstan and these events were happening without my presence, but I can assure you today that all actions concerning the citizen of Kolesnikov were perfectly clear in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The Henprosecutor’s office, which is to agree on matters concerning persons of local self - government, has done all the appropriate work since March. The arrest took place after an interrogation by an M.E.S. investigator in the Henprocurator's room and then in the M.E.S. The detainee is in solitary confinement, and he has been admitted to the National MPs who could verify his condition. Honorable national MPs, who are to be selected in this matter, the case of the sole investigator, not of the Minister of the Interior, nor of his deputy in the investigation, nor of the Attorney General, no one according to the laws you have enacted has the right to tell the investigator to what extent it is safe to choose: a subscription or an isolation. The next person chose such an action, and that is his legal right. I also want to drop any suspicion of the political motives of the case. Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko demanded the depoliticization of the militia. And I'm responsible for saying that I don't care what portrait the citizen has. Whether it's a communist or a socialist or a "Regions" or an SDPU or a party or a "Our Ukraine" I don't care. I want to let you know that two weeks ago we were detained from getting a bribe from a newly appointed head of the administration of one of the areas -- and I don't care if he's a new authority. I don't care who the person who's been incriminating this very serious crime today is whether he's a member of one party or not. I call on MPs not to engage in the act of disguise under the influence of criminal offences. I ask you once again: What is a thousand men who, with eight or 23 hard-core coupons, wheeled around the Mikolai district? I'll give you just one example: a thousand men with coupons were driving around this area. I don't know who they voted for. But the lists of upbuilding vouchers show that a thousand people voted illegally several times. And they will answer to the law. It's not politics, it's a headline! [[B in m in s a l in]] The other one. And in every area. I'm just going to ask you to go to the amnesty for the performers, but I'm going to have to put those who organized the carousels. I'm asking you, who collected 50 million dollars from the Ukrainian railway, gave the Autodora what it was like to take an aerial picture of our roads? Not a penny, not once did the plane take off. Is it politics or not? It's a crime scene. I'm asking you: 300 million people who have joined the Artek Reconstruction and Development Fund as one of the people's deputies are in his receiving fund -- is it politics or criminal? There's not a penny in Artek. I'll do whatever it takes to get people to answer to the law. You welcomed me here when I was assigned, and I will do so in all matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u243	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Ten minutes, please record. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u244	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "Our Ukraine", Yavorov, Zovva. Dear Mr. Secretary, my dear colleague! Well, first of all, I'm really excited by the courageous behavior of our colleagues in a party group of Communists who are so quick and courageously defending the bandits. Honor and glory to you! Second, my main question. I want to address you, and I'm sure the next few days will be an opportunity to arrest another new district manager who requires bribes, and I will. And the main question. If it were not for the crime of Kolesnik you mentioned, would he have been arrested or not on that day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u245	Dear Vladimir Alexandrovich, first of all, I'd like to apologize, if you called me a colleague, then allow yourself to be corrected, I didn't hear any protection from the communists on this matter. So let's not put political accounts together where they don't exist. The other one. I did not claim to have committed a crime. We are investigating this case, and only a court has the power to determine whether he is a criminal or a citizen. Who obeys the law. The court will determine. If there's no crime, I personally think the Attorney General will apologize, and all the investigators will apologize. Nevertheless, he is now under investigation and is in places where he is temporarily deprived of his will. As for what he did, it's not today, it's not yesterday. In the near past, it was typical of the Donetsk region. Today, thanks to the arrival of new employees of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, such cases will arise every time. I'm ready to come over here every time and tell you people about the state of affairs. But remember, I'm honestly saying this, today a deputy said to me, "Don't cross the border!'I've crossed this line because there's no fact that can hold back for breaking the law, my only. The possibility of being calm and looking you in the eye is doing what I'm talking about from the rostrum, and I'm going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u246	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u247	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u248	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u249	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Communist faction reaffirms once again that our position is that the thief should be in prison and no other position will the Communist faction lead. But what I care about is that I want answers. Because the media reported that the Minister of Transport had been offered $3 million for individual appointments there, the President said he knew who poisoned him. I'd like to hear, however, those who offered bribes for appointment are arrested, are they being prosecuted today, or are they just words?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u250	Dear Peter Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! I wanted to let you know, I actually stated in the Donetsk region that one million were proposed for the new head of administration in the Donetsk region. We set up a special case on this subject, and the internal security of the U.K.I.A. has the opportunity to test these things. Sadly, I point out that the client was no longer in contact. But I must tell you, I am responsible here, Mr. Shurma, for what I have said. No position in the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been bought or sold in new assignments. I'm responsible for what I said. In addition, given Mr. Shurma's great record, I want to inform him that you've obviously moved the land to Mr. Shufrich and you think that all politicians should have land in the Carpathians. I don't have any land in the Carpathians that I'd like to inform you of. I don't have that kind of thing. But, Peter Mikolaiovich, I want to inform you that bribery cases are the responsibility of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. So as soon as I've fixed them, I'll pass them on. At this point, I don't have a statement from Red or a criminal case. also the case of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u251	Vaszczuk, please, microphone. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, but Alexander Stoyan was at first. And then there's Vaszczuk. Yes, please. Microphone, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u252	Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u253	Oh, he's handing over Konovaluku? Please, Valery Konovaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u254	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, in addition to Peter Nikolaevich's report, I'm going to say that this is a demonstration of what integrity, you know, those people who might still be. I think there must be some kind of direct answer, yes. Why was Boris Kolesnikov detained at the crime scene? And here's the thing, you know the traditional scheme that has shown itself, and in previous years, it's the first one. Why did your deputy, who was very busy handling the search issues that took place in Donetsk and which began 10-15 minutes before the arrest? That's the second question. And the information that has been given to Parliament all over the country today is that the situation with Grigorishin, with drug and arms dumping, has also been coordinated by the same deputy. How do you comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u255	I'm going to allow myself to break some of the language laws and answer you in Russian so that the people of the Donetsk region can hear me too and get a better sense. Respectable people's deputies, respected voters, criminal proceedings under the article you have reported: for extortion with threats of murder, another 25 March of the current year has been initiated. During the investigation at any time prior to, during or after the arrest, we have the right to search if authorized. All necessary sanctions were given and searches were carried out and carried out. Not enough, you'll be very surprised that we will eventually find out during these searches. But that's later when the case will be investigated. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u256	Don't worry, I stress once again that we're dealing with a typical main case, we're dealing with a typical criminal charge against people who were engaged in the Act, a violation of the 189th section Act, part 4, I stress again, from 7 to 10 years. Dear voters, distinguished people's deputies, I would very much like you to remember: no position, no party will prevent an investigation into those who have violated the Law. Why was Mr. Kolesnikov interrogated in Kiev? Because the Office of the Prosecutor-General, which is conducting the investigation, stresses that the Office of the Prosecutor is conducting this investigation. She first questioned him in a case that was based on separatism. After that, the investigator went out and there was an investigator from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who, acting on instructions from the Attorney General's Office, questioned a citizen of Kolesnikov, who I had just proved to you, forcing him to commit murder. After that, he was taken to the Ministry of Internal Affairs where our deputy, Petr Vasilevich Koljada, was ordered by law, for which he received money from taxpayers, interviewed, and the investigator decided to arrest a Kolesnikov citizen, which his relatives were immediately informed on the phone. And then, of course, you showed up. I welcome your masculinity and solidarity, but, you know, it's a criminal matter, it doesn't smell like politics here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u257	Catherine Vasuk, please, the faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u258	Dear Yuri Vitaliovich, we sincerely believe that perhaps by the end the militia will truly serve the people faithfully and honestly. That's my question. Are open criminal cases for the illegal release of people just illegal? And don't you see that so many people are drawn to the responsibility of the election, and all of this comes mainly from the fact that the electoral board is run by the election commission of the head of the garden manager, the librarian, she has two or three children. Will we not do something that the election committees will be more afraid of than the KGB ever did?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u259	Dear Catherine Timofievna, first, the cases of dismissal, as you know, are being dealt with in the courts. If there was an illegal release, the court restores a person to work and there is no problem. In practice, I have encountered dozens of cases where the court has declared illegal dismissals earlier from internal affairs, and these people are reinstated at work. As for other layoffs, the path is similar. Court, decision and reinstatement at work, if that was illegal. With regard to selective forgeries. I won't tell you a big secret if I tell you how it's basically done. According to my instructions, a telegram was sent all over Ukraine. You know that there are lists of voters and lists of individuals who have voted on strong vouchers on business committees. We have a special program on the computer, and it is immediately evident that there are two, eight, and sometimes there are 23 champions at different locations. These lists are pledging, and I don't know who he voted for in Lvivsky, Donetsk or Kharkiv. I don't know who he voted for, I only know one thing: this man broke the law. And then we went to these people, and I told you, in the Mikolai district, for example, a thousand people we're questioning, they're showing who gave them these powerful gifts. Who gave them 100 bucks for this day job. We're going out on these people, and they're leading local political parties or their "young wings" among other things in the Mikolai region. Sometimes we go to the head of a paradise or an administration. They're organizers. I would like to ask you, as all national deputies, if it is your will, to declare amnesty to the perpetrators of these criminal orders. I'm talking about multiple ballots on hard-core vouchers. Because they were performers who were very often forced to do so. But we must make sure that at least once in Ukraine the organizers of these "carouselas" are seated. You are an ancient national MP, Catherine Timofievno, you remember that with every choice of powerless power, you have become more and more. In order for this not to happen again in the next election, the organizers of these crimes must do so. If the Minister of Internal Affairs suddenly goes crazy, he will call his boss and tell him to support a political party by sending a re-dressed gang to tear down the area. You know, in the Cherkas region, before that, there was the fact that a militiaman was killed to death for protecting the law. If I do this all of a sudden, I have to say, I don't want to go to jail like my predecessor. So if you would like these performers to sleep in peace after they have been declared, declare amnesty, and keep them in mind for the rest of your life. But the organizers, the customers have to answer, I'm deeply convinced that if we all want democratic life in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u260	Thank you. Time's up. Dear colleagues, one minute. It was called Shurma and Alexandrowski. Please. And that's it, dear fellows. Only those that were called names. And the Shufresche was called the last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u261	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to address Mr. Lucenka from his last phrase, as you said, if you go crazy, you'll get a call. I think if you go crazy, you'll never hear from anyone again. That's the first one. Everything that's going on with the arrests is as if you, Minister, listen. Minister! Wait! Listen! Don't ignore it! What's going on with the arrests, the discovery of criminal cases -- sit in the hall, forget that you're a minister, and look at it with the eyes of a deputy. The opening of criminal cases. If there's a criminal offence, let it be open. But what you're saying is that there were three attacks on a man, well that's -- fairy tales, including for your friends, because whoever orders the murder, it's what brings him to an end. And what you're saying is, it's probably because of your inexperience. And as for your daughter, I'm very glad I got the answer that it's not a date, and it's going to be a recreation center. I think we're going to have an interesting characteristic of Zhenyev-2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u262	Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u263	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Of course, I can't say that I'm flattered, that's the attention of Comrade Jury, that's nothing. I'm gonna live through this. However, I would like to point out that today the priorities, at least in the Kharkiv region, are the following, under the signature of the Acting Chief of Police of the Kharkiv Region: the identification of representatives of the State authorities who carried out the instructions of the former leadership of the State and the government involved in the commission of crimes and illegal acts. I have a question: so if there are instructions from the new authorities in the same direction, do they have to be followed? And I want to remind you that we have a law and we have rights, including land acquisition. And the difference between a personal area and an enterprise is great. I ask you not to forget that at least sometimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u264	Yes, Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u265	Alexandroska, the Communist faction of the city of Harkov. Yavorivsky. If cave anti-communism hadn't blinded your eyes and mind, you would have understood that the main motive that I am driving and communists is to have the law united for all, including law enforcement agencies, for all, including law enforcement officials, for courts and for justice in general. And you probably should have understood from my question: if not for President Yushchenko's strange statement in Donetsk, it probably wouldn't have been such a sudden reaction today to these, to information about the initiation of criminal proceedings on secessionism. Once again, Yushchenko made a direct threat to individuals. That is why today I am concerned about what is being done on the basis of separatism. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u266	Yes, Skin, please. Then Yavorowski, and then we'll ask the minister. One minute. Dear colleagues. Well, Skin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u267	I wanted to ask the Attorney General. Sveslav Mihajlovich, if possible, and the Minister of the Interior. At two o'clock, a meeting of the Court on Kolesnikov's complaint to change the measure of detention should begin. Thus, the Wheelsman himself must be brought to this meeting, and the investigator in charge of the case must be brought. But according to the information we have, no one's going to lead him there, and the investigator's not going to go there, and the documents, the same thing, are not available. That's why it feels like him. It's just that nobody's going to consider this. I ask the Attorney General to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u268	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u269	Vladimir Yavorowski. Well, first of all, I'm grateful to a beautiful communist woman named Alexandrovska for such a pear of my name, and she said that "casual anticommunism has set me up with a mind," so she admits my mind. Thank you very much. That's the first one. And I'll answer you with the words of a wonderful, wise Russian historian, Klutevski, who says, "It's easier to be smart how to stop being a fool." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u270	Yuri Lucenko, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u271	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to go to Mr. Shurma: you did, as your organization always does: somehow with such cunning macaroni they confirmed my answer, but nevertheless, you implied that I do have a donation. Once again, once again, I have a citizen, Lucenka, no land in the Carpathians, no other territory in Ukraine. That area that your agents reported to you, apparently, belongs to a private company called Val Press. Indeed, there were 200 children there last year who are members of the Union of Young Socialists. I don't have any property rights there in that district of Lviv. Mr. Shurma, stop playing these games! Your leaders of the district organizations of SDPU(o) have testified that you personally asked them to collect 50 resilient vouchers and hand them over to you. Finish this dirty story! Take on yourself and your responsibility! And I, Minister of Internal Affairs Lucenko, have filled out a declaration in which I have shown absolutely everything I have. No land, no recreation centers, no businesses, no businesses. I will be solely a politician who has been sent by Parliament to enforce the rule of law, including those who violate the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u272	Thank you. The replica is a Shurma. And we're done. Well, there you go. Your last name wasn't on it! Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, when the name is mentioned. The name Shurma was mentioned. Please. And please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u273	Minister, I'd like to ask you to stay. I am pleased to tell the Ukrainian society that Lucenko continues to act as he once did on the field: he said, and left. And as for your daughter, it is the right of the national MP to check the information that people are reporting. I took advantage of my right. As for your, I'm sorry, I don't have a completely incompetent response to giving a certificate, and I don't have any comments on this, because all the people in all the areas are being summoned to the D.A.'s office, and they're demanding such information that Shurma was giving instructions on the collection of those certificates. And I'm very sorry that you gave in to the provocation of this man who didn't build a dog box in his life, a steroids extravert, and you're repeating this nonsense. I thought you went out of the street and became a minister, and unfortunately, you don't even want to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u274	Just a minute. Stanislaw Mikhailovich, the National Deputy of Skin, had a question regarding the trial. One minute, let me finish! Please! Hope to keep the Supreme Council in line, please! Please, Stanislaw Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u275	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u276	The Attorney General said he'd figure it out. Dear colleagues! Well, the Attorney General said that the case is being handled by an investigator, and he'll find out what's going on. What hasn't been said?Oh, my God! All of it! The question has already been discussed. Dear colleagues, what other questions? [[N o M e s s a ……]] From what? What was the offer? This is Samofal's microphone, which offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u277	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The leadership of the country around the world has declared that our State is on the path of democracy, with democracy being developed. I think that today, because we have such a resonance, we have an opinion and a proposal to give the floor to the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva, so that she can express her vision today, her opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u278	Dear National Deputies! In the morning, a proposal was made to hear the information of the Attorney General, the Minister of the Interior. We voted, we made a decision. You didn't say anything about Carpachev, the Human Rights Commissioner. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Now, one minute, don't shout! I'll do it again. I'll do it! I'll explain. Well, dear colleagues, calm down, please. For what reason? Now there's an offer to listen to Carpathian's information. please, who in order to include the Human Rights Commissioner in the agenda and listen to this information, please? [[13:40:01]] For 275 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 14, communists -56, Ukraine -49, People's Party - 23, SPU-26, Block Timoshenko - 3, Ukrainian People's Party - 6, SDPU - 21, Only Ukraine - 12, Democratic Ukraine - 18, SPTU - 11, Union - 13, Deminitiv - 14, non-fractional - 9. We're not voting yet. We don't vote on the information. So, respectable colleagues, five minutes for information, 10 minutes for questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u279	Thank you, national deputies. I'm really impressed by the vote of "Our Ukraine," because in this room, when I reported on the events in Mukachev, you unanimously supported me. You know that a human rights officer is to no extent a politically unattractive figure in any country. And, fortunately, so in our Ukraine. I'd still like you to listen to the information I have today. What concerns the detention of the head of the Danish District Council of Boris Kolesnikov, which I have never been familiar with before. I'd like to add a minute to the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u280	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u281	Yesterday, the Chief Investigations Authority of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for Crime under article 189 of the Fourth Criminal Code of Ukraine demanding shares of VAT, "White Swan Trade Center", which was allegedly committed because the court has not yet proved it, Your Honorary Colleagues, was committed in 2002, in my opinion, the detention that took place in the Attorney General's Office at 12:30 with the same second of hostages on Boris Kolesnikov and with the permission of a lawyer, I want to give some coordination, the comments of the Minister of Internal Affairs, the lawyer was only allowed at 17:30, that is, not at the moment of detention, it is one party. On the other hand, when we got to know each other, and my representative, on my orders, considering that this matter, in our opinion, looks to some extent like political persecution, which needs further testing, has been sent to temporary detention isolation. Where I met Boris Kolesnikov, a statement was made in the name of an authorized human rights officer, which I am obliged by law and the Constitution to study and consider carefully. So I would like to inform you, Mr. People's Choice, that by studying the materials of the matter that I have access to, I can tell you the following. That, to date, there is no reasonable basis for me to rely on a record of the arrest of a person suspected of committing a crime, so there is no ground for such detention in this protocol. This principle, this principle, does not mean that he, for example, hid from the investigation, appeared before the courts, on the one hand. On the other hand, it seems that he was depriving the investigation of the possibility of obstructing the establishment of the truth in a criminal case. There is no argument and no motivation in the protocol. The next thing you know, Kolesnikov didn't hide from the investigation and the trial and the last argument, probably because we're building a democratic society with you and it's time for Ukraine to build that kind of society. In keeping with a citizen named Kolesnik, by the way, two underage children are less than 8 months old. So the wife is now breast-feeding this little child and is on hold with her husband. I still want to find out that this whole thing has been questioned for one reason, as I mentioned yesterday in a 12-hour press release, and they've been detained for quite another. Now absolutely so, if the Attorney General doesn't know it, I can inform the distinguished nationals. In fact, for two hours there is a complaint by Boris Kolesnikov in a court where he complains of the illegality of his detention. There's the same complaint from his lawyer. But it has not yet been prepared to be brought to justice. He is to participate directly in such a meeting. And probably the last. If the minister I am very honored, Mr. Yuri Lucenko will answer me, for which every year in Ukraine, in solitary confinement only in 2004, I call the figures, was detained and remained in 385.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u282	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u283	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. In the rooms, it's up to all of us, to all of us, believe me, it's a serious problem, there were 620,000 in the detention rooms. So more than a million citizens of our state are almost without court sentences, the vast majority of them have passed these mongrels, you know, where they degrade human dignity, where they abuse, where they use torture, we want to build that state with you. It is because the Human Rights Commissioner owes me today, taking advantage of the opportunity that you have given me, honourable deputies, that I thank you for this, to draw your attention to what we have built and continue to build a police country. I can't help but worry about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, we agreed to ask you 10 minutes. Please sign up for questions. Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u285	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Nina Ivanovna, thank you so much for your report. But what I want to ask you is, do you distinguish between this concept of a police state at the time? Yes, for 13 years we had the idea of a police state. Do you distinguish between government and government for 100 days? And in those 100 days we were forced to make changes to the budget, and in those 100 days we were forced to dig up to Auggie's stables, which were accumulated in 13 years by the previous government. You were in Torture, you saw the police state, and you were with us, and you saw those beatings. And I want to ask you, don't you see in the last two months how we're starting to get out of that regime and the police state? And don't you want to file a claim against the government of Kuchma-Janukovich-Medvedczuk for the previous facts of the police state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u286	Mrs. Lilia, thank you for asking. I deeply respect you as a politician, as a wise person, as a responsible person, and I want to say the following. I can't just sort of divide what's going on right now, because it's not stopped, it's not stopped, it's not stopped in relation to the hundreds of Ukrainian citizens who are continuing now, it's in the detention cells, it's in the temporary detention cells, and I'm going to give you specific facts. 2004 There were 76,600 detainees in custody. And then one out of seven later, the criminal charges, the excuses for being deprived of their will, were dismissed. And the situation was the same all the years ago. I was hoping that today's new power, which is already in effect and is going to work in a new way, really has a chance at the time, but this time today, I think, we're braking and we're braking very seriously. And that doesn't add power, and the authorities start losing, and I'm worried about that. After all, I have been and remain on the side of the truth. That's what happened in Mukachev. As much as half of this room didn't like my position on Mukachev, so right now the other half of the hall doesn't like my position on Kolesnik's case on a concrete basis -- in fact, a baseless and unmotivated arrest of a Ukrainian citizen. Then it's a question of investigation, that's a question of court, that's what's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u287	Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u288	Please pass the word to Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u289	Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u290	Rodionov, the Communist faction. Nina Ivanovna, I'm going to ask you a question right now, but for all the radio audiences, I want to say that maybe everyone is convinced, the most decent and honest part of society, and in the Supreme Council, the communists. They are not involved in corruption or theft. And the question I have is, do you think it would be a violation of human rights if we did? Communists, the need to bring criminal cases against those who have robbed 75 billion people of war. In the case of those who have robbed 37 billion people of their assets in the bank, they are also responsible for the loss of their assets, as well as for the loss of their assets. On the way out of the ruble zone, against those who hid eight trillion Carbovanians printed in 1993 against those who made a country rich and underdeveloped, against those who today proved that the lowest birth rate and against those who proved that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u291	I thank you for that question, Sir Michael Rodionov. And I want to say that this is the law and the MPs and the citizens of our country, but it is also the duty of law enforcement officials to file criminal cases against the most resonant problems of our society. And it's probably to the end, though. Honorable colleagues, national deputies, I'd like to address you now, taking this opportunity, to all of you. At the time when I was speaking on the case of the current prime minister of Ukraine, Mrs. Yulia Timoshenko, I was accused. I think I'm in court protecting the man who robbed our country. I raised a question before the Attorney General's Office and said in court that Mrs. Timoshenko, whose case lasted in the Attorney General's Office for more than five years, was entitled to be released from custody of a detention unit. Just because they failed to prove the crime properly in the proper time frame, one must be free. Ukrainian prisons, Sizo, are simply overcrowded. People with tuberculosis and others come out of there. So every arrest, every detention, is the fate of a human being, and we have to treat such arrests and arrests differently. Ukraine is today the world leader in the number and systematic application of arrests under any circumstances. Then we set people free, then we apologize, and some in this room, which was then released, are no longer alive. So let's be aware of you today, and let's not take political opposite positions with you right now, really, affecting the protection of human rights. We're supposed to consolidate. And if we don't consolidate in this room, we never consolidate our society, and that's why we went to these elections, and that's why we chose new power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u292	Vladimir MacKayenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u293	Please pass the word to Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u294	Mikhail Dobkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u295	Nina Ivanovna, I thank you so much for your courageous stand and principle. I mean, personally, I'm not ashamed that he voted for you as a national deputy, and I think that if all people did what you did today, we would have had order in the country for a long time. I'd like to invite you to a court hearing at two o'clock to discuss Boris Kolesnikov's complaint. I think your presence will help you win justice there. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'd like to address you on the Haman conduct of the Minister of the Interior today in the Hall. Such disrespect for the people's deputies, as demonstrated by the Minister, has not been with any Minister of the Interior. I want to say that Lucenko told the whole country today that he was a politician. They say the police are out of politics. This is where the decrees come from. The shelter is the head of the UBPO Kharkiv district, which is the primary task of the Kharkiv militia, which is fighting organized crime, for.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u296	Yes, Sergey Ratushniak, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Grigorovich! Nuser, who faked Mukachev, has been appointed by your new authority to the district administration. Nina Ivanovna, our dear, please send your representative to court and ask for the rest of your time to pass on to Leonid Czernovets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u298	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u299	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! Czernovetski, Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine. I like everything Nina Ivanovna said. And basically, I just don't understand one thing. I am in favour of all the locals being held accountable for the fact that they starved our population. And we have 90 mayors and heads of regional organizations, 90 percent of the people. But on the other hand, maybe it's a start. But, in principle, I understand that this is an exceptional case. And I don't like it. I like your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u300	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich, let me comment very specifically. The presumption of innocence is that it should be sacred to us all, whatever party we belong to, whatever time we live with you. This is, as they say, our flag of human rights. So let us not judge until there is a court decision, and more than that, that decision of a court that has not gained legal power, that is, the situation that man has to contend with. And the next. It has happened that now the Human Rights Commissioner receives numerous complaints every day, as always. I expected fewer. Sadly, that was not the case. Now I'm getting even more complaints than I've been getting in previous years. On one such complaint, on one such issue, many, to be exact, we went to Kirovgrad. We have carefully studied the human rights situation, the human rights electorate in Kirovgrad, and will continue to study. There are problems, very serious. Infractions during the elections, and there were indeed such violations, and the culprits must be punished, but which. I'd like to draw our attention to the following with you, Your Honor. We were at the same time last night in a detention facility where an elderly woman, a retired woman, was formerly not a judge who works as a simple cleaning woman now. Svetlana Vasilivna's pimple. She confessed her guilt. She really threw 15 ballot papers as the head of the district commission for Viktor Yanukovic. She admitted it as soon as she was approached by a representative of our Ukraine. She must bear the responsibility, but what responsibility? The court today has this private man, who worked for 25 years as a nanny in a kindergarten, and now the cleaning lady has two children, one of whom today in the army has been disabled, and because of this crime, she's actually got -- not on condition! [[Well, grown-ups, but a child.]] - three years of imprisonment. [[N o M e s s a ……]] And now there will be an appeal of course. But tell us, should we deal with the organizers? With the organizers! Do you understand? Whether judges should not apply the law at the proper time, but they should still consider the specific personality. Do you understand? And that's the principle thing for us if we want to build a human society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u301	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. I see. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Lilia Grigorovitch, mentioned by name, is entitled to a replica. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u302	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The deputy of the Carpathians, who mentioned my name, has changed factions so often that he may have lost sight of it, he does not know which authority Nuser had appointed. What you can't do for business. I just want to say that the prelude in Mukachev was a terrible prelude to the overture that took place in the parliamentary elections. The Ukrainian people denied it, and I ask. in the presidential election, and I ask all those who care about a single person today to mention the millions of people who were to be thrown into the abyss of lawlessness, counterfeiting and fraud. So keep in mind the rank of a private person, but keep in mind the position of honor, dignity, truth, and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-07-m0.u303	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is only one thing I can say that Nuser has been appointed by today's authorities. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
