ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:08]] There were 393 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of our work yesterday at the plenary meeting, which is January 12. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. Two laws were passed, seven bills were adopted in the first reading on the basis of which five bills were rejected. As a result of a review of the proposal by the President of Ukraine. The veto of the President of Ukraine has been overtaken by two laws of Ukraine, six laws adopted in a new edition, three laws repealed. Now for the announcements, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Bondarenko Georgiy Ivanovich from the faction "Region of Ukraine". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Flood Mikhail Mikhailovich into the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand you're in a pre-festive mood, but we still need to keep working. The schedule for today, on Thursday, is given to you. Let us move on to practical consideration of matters. A draft regulation on the release of the members of the Court of Auditors is being announced, that is, we are considering the release of the members of the Court of Auditors. Reporter: Cuzko Vasil Petrovich. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! Our committee has received a mandate from the Head of the Supreme Council to appoint the Head of the Accounts Chamber for the discharge of the members of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Chromato Boris Fedorović, Secretary of the Court of Auditors, Mr. Ogornikov Viktor Savovic, new Controller of the Court of Auditors and Mr. Melniczuk Vitali Grigorjevic, Deputy Head of the Court of Auditors, in connection with the end of their term of office. The Committee considered these submissions and today invites the Supreme Council to release the above-mentioned three persons from office in the Court of Auditors under the Act after the end of their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u3	Yes, dear fellows, is there a question? Three minutes, please sign up for the question. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Then Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u4	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter, please tell us what is involved in the fact that the members of the Court of Auditors have been submitted for approval because they have not yet been sent to the meetings of the Supreme Council in connection with the end of the term, although these documents have long been issued and there seems to be no connection to the Court of Auditors, to the presidential elections. Maybe by paralyzing the House of Accounts so that it can't respond adequately to all the public budget thefts that are taking place right now, to what is being done by public procurement, what is being done by appointment with a violation of the law now, in recent times, by the President. Maybe we're helping them out there on the committee, not asking these questions about the assignment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u5	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich. I think it's connected. On 18 December, their deadline was over. Our committee received documents this week. We responded immediately, on Tuesday the Committee meeting, on Monday we received documents, on Tuesday the Committee meeting, today in the Chamber. So, I think there's nothing to blame the committee for, so we responded immediately and filed for release. Let's get out of here. Next assignment, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u6	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u7	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished reporter! I think we have a normal practice in the Supreme Council when we discuss, let's say, the dismissal or appointment of a person to a position. But I'd still like to have Valentina Konstantinovich and the committee of profile put in such order that they're still living people, people who worked for a period of time. What is the reason for the release, more clearly, so that you can get acquainted with the work that a person has, and then make a normal conclusion, free or not release. It's like a cat in a bag, and now they're saying "releasing," and for example, I'm being questioned, well, why does a man get fired? Maybe we should listen to her. I think this practice needs to be introduced, and then more clearly and clearly my right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u8	You may agree, but this practice can only be introduced by amending the Court of Auditors Act. The law clearly states that after the end of the term, people are fired, all of them. And when you're assigned, you can discuss what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u9	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u10	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Vassil Petrovich, we support your offer. But I would like to find out when the committee will consider the assignment, and when will we vote on the appointment of others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u11	I think the whole problem of being assigned is that we have to vote under the Bill of Accounts. And I understand that the question is only technical, that if we are, let's put it this way, we feel that the room will vote and there will be a representative presence, that's a technical problem. I think this will soon be submitted and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u12	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Well, I want to join in with the questions that have been said here, which may not be where these people are supposed to be in the session room, so that they can just report on their activities. I think it would be perfectly normal, because, in principle, the days before those events that are happening in Ukraine, i.e. the change of power, the change in leadership of the highest, the change in government policy, the internal state policy, I'd like to hear these people and understand what they were doing there, how they see themselves in the future, because they can be reassigned. We are well aware that these people can be extended. So actually, I would like this practice, in principle, to be implemented by the Supreme Council, because you don't have to just listen to the letter of the law -- you have to listen to the spirit of the law. And according to this, the Supreme Council is absolutely competent to call these people here and to communicate or, at least, to give them the opportunity to briefly illustrate their previous activities. And later, when we ask them questions, we can determine whether they can continue their activities or whether they really need to be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u14	Dear colleague Shkil, I agree with you. But, knowing you as one of the proponents of strict law enforcement, we now suggest that you only comply with the law. It's about the report. An annual report of the head of the Court of Auditors shall be provided. And then we can ask any member of the Court of Auditors appointed by the Supreme Council to answer the questions raised. Although I agree with you, we need to make some changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u15	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I understand the very reason for asking questions. One minute! I'm motivated by the ladies, Stepan Ilkovich. The question is that there are moods among the National Deputies, there is support for those who worked the right time in the Court of Auditors, but today according to the requirements of the law, they have to be released, and then they have to consider the issue, and there will be consultations on who will be assigned to work again in the Court of Auditors. I also share the thoughts that are among the national deputies today. So we've decided, dear colleagues, to divide these two questions. First, we will meet the requirements of the law on release, then we will consult and conduct matters. to decide the question of the appointment to the Court of Auditors, especially the secret ballots. So I'd like you to just make a decision today, and then we'll go ahead and figure it out. Is there a need to exchange ideas with a motive? Please sign in. Please sign up. Or the procedure. All right, sign up. Out of procedure, please, three minutes. Yes, Mikhailo Kosov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u16	Mikhailo Kossov, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I have carefully read this question that our colleague Cloud has made about what should be done before today’s issue is resolved, the report of the Court of Auditors in general, which is provided for in the law, which is foreseen each year. I have great respect for what the House of Accounts is doing, but before I could vote with a calm heart for the release of those people who worked in the House of Accounts, I would have to hear not only the formal reason for their release, but also in general all those events that, by the way, Stepan Ilkovich also in his application.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u17	Thank you. The offer is understood. Please, Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u18	Vladimir Matveev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In general, I agree with the previous speaker, and I must point out that if we approve or consent to the appointment of an official, we should know at the time of our release what he did eventually. As he performed his functions as appointed. Either this shall be part of the report of the Court of Auditors, or this shall be their personal report on the work carried out. Because it's just an explanation that their term of office is up to us, of course, but we don't know what they've done. And in this way, we will continue to appoint others with whom we will not ask any questions. It doesn't make any sense. That is why I would suggest that at least the deputies be informed of any report of these officials that we release.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u20	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I see that the session, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we don't need to finish, because on a perfectly clear issue, we found a lot of problems. There's a perfectly clear question here. The people worked, the deadline ended, as the term ended in court, a member of the Constitutional Court, a national deputy, and we automatically have to discharge our constitutional duty to release these people. The second question. It's the purpose of these people. Question three. The report of the Court of Auditors, which is completely out of line with the question that we are talking about today. I do not deny that there is a report of the Court of Auditors, but it does not bind itself to, say, the question that we are voting on today. So I propose that I fulfill my constitutional duty to free people. And in the future, who deserves it, and I think there's everyone there who can confirm it in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u21	Thank you. They were exchanged from procedural points. With the motives of Stepan Ilkovich the Cloud and we will vote for the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I still don't think we can formally deal with this very important question, because it's a very important structure, which is the accounting room, and we don't know who will be put in place, who will be replaced, who will be the candidates and the motives, because these people who are getting released today, they have a great deal of experience. And as far as we know, some of them have worked very hard and worked hard, but with a willful decision, the head of the accounting chamber would like to get rid of them alone, and therefore he does not want to reconfirm them, although the Supreme Council, for example, has continued to authorize them, reconfirming them for a new term. Why the Head of the Court of Auditors Had Not Acted
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let's obviously go this way, I suggest, for your consideration, is the first draft of the release order. I'll put it to a vote, if the decision is not taken, then we'll decide on the question of hearing the report of the Court of Auditors in accordance with the Law, and the report of the Court of Auditors should be two times a year, but not more than two times a year. That's it. Is there no objection to such an act? So there's no objection? So I'd like to have your attention. Stepan. That you don't vote like that. The first is the proposal by the Committee, which is a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of members of the Court of Auditors. Registration number 6484. [[10:19:21]] For 246 Decision taken. A draft decree to amend the calendar plan for the 6th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. Dear colleagues, you've been given these documents. There is no need for us to hold these discussions and to do reports now. We may ask the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council to inform and make a decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the aim of the project, which was launched by the Turkish national deputy Alexander Valentinovich, as noted in the explanatory note, is to ensure that the Supreme Council will hold a solemn meeting on the oath-making of the newly elected President of Ukraine, as well as the appointment of the Supreme Council of the Prime Minister of Ukraine with the further formation of the government. I remind the People's Deputies that the draft decree of the Turkish People's Deputies proposes to amend the calendar of this sixth session of the Supreme Council, providing for the continuation of its work, in particular: the holding of plenary meetings on January 16th, i.e. Sunday, January 18th, January 20th. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, a majority of the votes on the proposal in the Supreme Council did not support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Please sit down if you do. Please, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, everyone understands what is happening is the artificial delay in the process of introducing the newly elected President into office. But let it be a political and moral responsibility on, say, the conscience of our political opponents. As far as this decision is concerned. I think that all the national MPs report that the Supreme Council cannot close the session and go on vacation until, first, the new President and second President is sworn in until a new Prime Minister is appointed and supported by the Supreme Council, who will be able to file a new Cabinet of Ministers. That's why, dear colleagues, there's an offer to continue our session for another week. And yesterday, changes were made to the decision. And I ask everyone to take these changes into account carefully during the vote. I mean, 17 to hold, honorary colleagues, the Conciliation Council, and the session to be held from 18 to 21. And that is what we agreed with the leadership of the Supreme Council. And 21 to close our session. When there is no principle of other suggestions and objections, I ask all national deputies to support and vote on this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Now, now. Dear colleagues, with a motive, please sign up. Three minutes of motive. Please sign up for three minutes. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Valentin Grigorovich Matthews later.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u28	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm just, I'm here. Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I think it's quite obvious for everyone that we have to continue the session at this time. But questions can only be asked about the format. Whether it's committee work and district work, so that at any time we can call a meeting, or given the amount of work we have, there should be plenary work. I think only two of these points deserve a solution. So our position is to definitely support the proposal to continue the session so that the Conciliation Board can agree on how to use this, the most efficient use of this working time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u29	I'll answer right away. It's about 17 of us holding meetings of the Conciliation Board, 18-21 of us working in plenary mode, because we have a lot of documents to consider. That's it. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev gives Peter Mikolayovich Simone the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u30	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, first of all, what we've adopted with you is the Inaugural Procedures Act, it clearly gives, let's say, answers to all the questions that concern those who insist on continuing the session today. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today's decision is pressure on the court, because today we determine when the court should give an answer to us, the Supreme Council, or to those who say so. Thirdly, I would like us to act within the limits of the Law: the Chairman, the Head, can gather a temporary session, and the temporary session, the temporary session, the second session, I apologize, the second session will be just like accepting, accepting and conducting the President's inauguration. And in this case, once again, I want to get my attention: what we have is a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u31	Yes, Anatoly Kozlowski, faction of the People's Agrarian Party. Please be calm, dear fellows. You don't? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u32	Anatoly Kozlowski, Mikolayevščina, 133 district Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we're tired of this, we should work and support our elected president so that the government can form a state to work. That's why I think we're not too busy, and our national agrarian faction supports this bill so that we can work because we need to have order in the state! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? Dear National Deputies! Please, attention, please! It's suggested that we work in plenary next week, because given the situation, most of the deputies will be in Kiev. That's the first one. The other one. We have an extremely large number of documents that we need to consider. And finally, thirdly, dear colleagues, we've been consulting here, and then we can make a decision for the next session, let's say, in February, we have a plenary week from 15 to 18, we can do it then on committees and districts, and we're going to have to work from 7 to 31 on committees and districts. And there'll be an appropriate compensation. And this week, let's work in plenary mode. In accordance with the proposal, I would like to draw attention to the vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar schedule for the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene the fourth session: "17 January 2005 - Conciliation Council meeting, 18-19-21 January - Plenary meetings." Registration number 6478. Please vote. 6478, there's a replacement for this document. [[10:28:36]] For 246 The solution. Dear colleagues, it'll be the factions. Take it easy, please. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine", I read "for" - 99, "Ukraine" - 2, "Communist faction - 0, "The People's Agrarian Party - 28, "SDPU" - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 18, "SPU - 20, "Timoshenko Block - 19, "The Hard Ukraine-NDP" - 4, "The Union - 13, "Deminiciatives" - 11, "Centre" - 7, "The Faction - 25. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in March 2005 on measures taken by the Government to improve the efficiency of State ownership management in statutory funds of companies privatised and formed by the State is being discussed. Semenuk Valentina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u34	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! It's already a draft decision with a beard, and I've been through it several times. This is due to the fact that we still need to spend the day of government with its fully formed composition. We came out of what factors to consider this issue on the day of the government. At the twelfth year of independence, we only created a register of state property. We need to deal with those enterprises and see the efficiency of managing parts of government property that were passed on to 30 holding companies, joint ventures, societies that were created by the state, where there were different percentages, starting with 90 percent, and ending with 10, even in that small amount of government property transferred to relevant shareholders. It's a shame that today the analysis by the Special Control Commission says the following: that parts of government property are being used and dividends are not coming into the budget. Although the Supreme Council, after holding parliamentary hearings, commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt a number of bills, such as the administration of public property, the right of municipal property, the proper settlement of joint ventures, this issue has not been resolved. So the consideration of this issue on the government's day will give the opportunity and help the new government to deal with government property, and explain why the funds didn't come into the budget, because if you look at the previous years, the total amount of money that comes into the government's budget is only 500 million dollars, and this year that amount has even been smaller, in the past, I'm sorry. So given the need to bring this situation in order and to help the new government, we propose to hold such a meeting in March and to make concrete decisions that would allow for a state-owned, communal, and property that is passed on to the relevant joint ventures, to the appropriate societies that have been created by the Cabinet of Ministers, according to the decisions of the State Property Fund, and we will need to bring this issue in order. In addition, I think that it is in this context that we will consider the issues that concern us directly to the Supreme Council, because many of the objects are referred to the State Administration, and the decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard will be made just before then. I think it'll give us an opportunity to bring the state into order and help the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u35	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. Now, the committee head hasn't reported it yet. Then they'll come out. Valentine. Vladimir Josephovich Matthew, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u36	The Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment considered the draft law. The draft Decree “On Government Day”, which provides for the consideration of measures taken by the Government to improve the management of public property in statutory funds of economic societies that are privatized and societies established with the participation of the State. Frankly, the Committee considered the matter on 10 December last year and decided to hold the Government's Day in January - 11 January. But since our situation has changed dramatically, we do not yet have a government, so Semenyuk has made the right move. Deputy Semenyuk was right to transfer this Government Day to March. Although, frankly, there would have to be at least the Prime Minister's agreement or the announcement that there would be a Government Day and such issues would be considered. Moreover, action will have to be considered there. The Committee, at the same time yesterday, considering the work plan for 2005, decided to hold such a Government Day at the initiative of members of the Committee, including the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Matveyev. We have now agreed with Valentina Semenyuk to amend this draft regulation, which is being considered or prepared jointly by the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Management, Property and Investment, together with the Special Commission. A number of other measures had to be taken to address the issue in general. I would like to bring to the attention of the people's deputies of Ukraine who do not know this, and those who know this, but who are today hiding from other people's deputies the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was only recently adopted. At the end of last year, the reduction of the list of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy. the security of the State from 894 to 424. This is enshrined in the Cabinet of Ministers'decree of 23 December 2004. In comparison with the previous similar regulation and the list, large oil and oil refineries, such as the Open Stock Exchange Company Ukrnafta, the Open Shareholder Society Nafto.Karpatie, Galicina oil refinery, Hersonnaft processing, Odessa Refinery, Ukrnaftoft and Azmol, are listed. On the list of 23.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u37	Let me finish the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u38	No road construction plants were included in the list of 23 December 2004: the Autozas open-stock company, the Autoraz holding company, the open-stock company, the Lviv Bus Plant, the chemical industry, the open-stock company, the open-stock company "Donetsk Chemical Reactivation Plant", the "Himawtomatics", the machinery plant, the open-stock company.The machinery factory, the Odessa Engineering Company, the Artemov Machinery Factory, the Harkov Machinery Plant. The regulation provides that the Housing Fund shall not leave to the public shares of enterprises not listed except in cases provided for by law. That is, government stock packages have been dumped for sale in these enterprises. This was done without agreement with the Supreme Council, contrary to all the measures envisaged, namely, the Supreme Council, among other things. We view this simply as a bribe, a outgoing Government, a new Government that comes in today, which can freely dispose of such a piece of public property without the Supreme Council's crown, means to sell and share, a public stock package at prices not marketable, but at nominal value, which is a contradiction of the Law. I believe that a moratorium should be adopted today on the sale of public stock packages belonging to the statutory funds of these enterprises. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u39	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. What Is the Question? Well, please sign up for the question for three minutes. Dear colleagues, I'd like to tell you that we have about six more documents to organize, so we just have to figure out whether we're going to consider questions or not? And then there will be questions in the process, and these are organizational questions. Please, Igor Ostash.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u40	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine", please pass the word to Sobolje Sergy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u41	Sergey Sobolev. Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear reporter, there is such a unique enterprise in the city of Berdjansk - Azmol. He's got his eye on here, our colleague at the Kluev Hall, a gentleman who's already prepared for the privatization of this, a really unique enterprise, there's already two applicants who are going to create, like, the visibility of the competition. The conditions for privatization have been created so that only one East Energo company can benefit from this. I believe that the position of the Supreme Council regarding such objects should be clear. Such objects should be clearly recorded in a list that is not to be privatized, rather than the general name of an oil - gas complex, or something else, as you view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u42	First, in its time, the Supreme Council passed the Business Corporations Act, which resulted in some of the State-owned enterprises that were of strategic importance being corporateized, allowing for the sale of part of the shares of these enterprises in part of the labour force and part of, well, in the free sale. It was a mistake of the Supreme Council, which allowed today to embezzle state property on a large scale. Who's to blame for this mistake doesn't have to look today. But with this, the Cabinet of Ministers has indeed deleted the Azmol company from the list of enterprises that are state-owned and strategically important and have dropped the stock package, the government's package of shares for sale. The actions of the Cabinet of Ministers are contrary to the law on privatization, so they must therefore be stopped. I therefore propose to adopt today a moratorium on the sale of public shares by open-stock companies, enterprises that were owned by public enterprises before 23 December 2004 and were listed as enterprises of strategic national importance. This could stop as if it were a waste. But I repeat that this is a gift prepared by the outgoing regime to itself and to those who will come to power.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u43	I would like to add to this, my honourable colleagues, that, on behalf of the Supreme Council, a draft of the Supreme Council Regulation is now being developed and reproduced, which will recommend that all these privatization-related processes be stopped until the new government of Ukraine is formed. This will be offered for your consideration. Please, Korsakov, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u44	Please give the word to Mr. Doroguntsev Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u45	Say it again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u46	Drogans' Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u47	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Josephovich, when privatization began, was listed as a number of enterprises that were not subject to the procedure. Now the list has dropped 10 times compared to 1992. We have come around almost all the countries of Europe on this issue. We are soon in state property, including in packages owned by the State in separate businesses, and we will be in last place without any property. We already have about 20 percent of government property, industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u49	Sergey Ivanovich, the only answer I can give you is yes. There was no question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u50	Vladimir Josephovich, thank you, time is up. We have two deputies insisting on expressing their position on this matter. Mironenko Victor, the Communist faction, and Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear compatriots, the Communist faction proposes, firstly, to postpone consideration of this issue, I mean, the Government Day itself, April, so that we have a new President, a new Government that will prepare for us seriously and will present to us the measures to be taken. That's the first one. Second. I suggest the following. In this draft regulation, the title will complement the following: "to prevent the reduction of enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state." I very much ask the author to support, on the basis of the first sentence and the second sentence. And on the second sentence, this is a very important support, which is extremely important. Because let's take into account, after all, our own bitter experiences. Indeed, economic governance is being lost, and the economic situation is often deteriorating because of this. Let's look at the Italian experience. During the 60-70s in Italy, government structures have taken a strong initiative in entrepreneurship, have accumulated stocks and have gradually taken over certain strategic enterprises, strategic industries to some extent. And you know, it's been positive in both electricity and banking, and so on. Because the State could then influence financial policies, in reality economic policies for the benefit of both the economy and the people of Italy. That's what we have to do. And so again, I ask the author of the bill very much to accept this last sentence, otherwise we will go on what path? We now see that there is actually a conspiracy between the two oligarchic groups, a return of several oligarchic groups, and a certain merger of these oligarchic groups to continue privatization, including strategic sites. You know perfectly well that, let's say that the attempts were already privatizing the ports. The Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court, has been brought before the Constitutional Court accordingly. [[seaports]] Thank the Constitutional Court for coming out of the Constitution and the interests of the State, the people. In fact, the privatization of seaports has been denied. And thank God! But let us, as legislators, show concern for the economy, for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u52	Eugene Kirilchuk, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u53	Julia Tymoshenko's faction, Kirilchuk, Fatherland's Party. Really. The question raised is very important. And judging by the practicality of not making a decision yet, we started to discuss this question, because questions and answers have already raised painful questions that need to be published immediately and adopted a document that needs to be further worked on. Because of this, the faction of Julia’s bloc, Timoshenko, has clearly defined support and the term not to be tolerated, because it is during the discussion that a programme of action will be established for both parliament and government, and for other organizations that have a bearing on privatization, for those enterprises that are formed with a share of state ownership. And I think there's going to be a serious proposal for a change in the activities of the State Property Fund itself, because we've turned it into a trading organization instead of taking care of the preservation of the government's share and its efficient use. I'm going to say, as a member of the budget committee, that the budget of these government particles is coming, well, at most, a tenth of the funds that should be budgeted from that share of government property that is in joint ventures. And for some reason, we have given the State Property Fund a great right to determine what the fate of these funds should be counted by an organization or another. An example of how you remember when you discussed last year's budget, when "Small" instead of 450 million on the order or by the agreement of the Holding Fund counted only a fourth of that amount. Such facts could be cited, but I believe that immediately, and I think that the Hall will support such a Government Day, and already on Government Day it will be determined how many problems to include, raise and discuss. And it will be for the benefit of both the new government and the program for the new parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u54	Yes, Your Honor, we need to take a decision on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in March 2005. The Government's Day Day is proposed on March 15, 2005, "On Government's measures to improve the efficiency of government ownership in the statutory funds of privatised companies and societies formed by State participation." In addition, honourable colleagues are proposed in paragraph 3 after the word "deputy," to write, "The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Agriculture, Property and Investments," And they gave it to the Special Monitoring Commission. With this in mind, I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 6164, please vote. [[10:49:53]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, since we have a lot of organizational issues, I would ask that we look at them quickly and not turn them into essentially these documents. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in March 2005 is announced: "On the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, medical security of war veterans and the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945." Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, has the floor for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u55	Honorary colleagues, the Council of Veterans of Ukraine, in the person of its National Deputy, Herasimov of Ukraine, John Alexanderovich, and I, as head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, initiated a day-to-day government: "To implement Ukraine's legislation on the social, medical security of veterans of war and the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945." What did we do when we made a similar decision? We have come from the fact that, in recent years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted a number of legislative acts to address a number of problems in the social health care of war veterans, including the adoption of the Law on Pensions for Special Service to Ukraine, the adoption of the Law on Improving the Material Status of Persons with Disabilities of the Great War, a number of amendments to the Law on the Status of War Veterans and guarantees their social protection in part, in particular the granting of status to war invalids to participants in hostilities who have become disabled in general illness, part of compensation for unused travel, a number of others, adopted the Order of the Supreme Council on the Announcement of this Year 2005 of the Year of Veterans, and according to this decree, the President of Ukraine issued an appropriate decree that 2005 declared that the Year of Veterans would become the Year of Not All This Year of the Year. With regard to the date of the Government Day. What we came out of when we proposed this government day or government day with such a daily routine in March months. We came out that, on the one hand, it would take time for the new government to develop a set of problems related to the preparation of this Government Day, and on the other hand, we came out to make some adjustments as a result of this Government Day by 9 May 2005, that is, the 60th anniversary of Victory. Unfortunately, however, it is now decided to hold the Government's Day in March with a different agenda. So I'm going to make an offer to make a decision with two clarifications. One clarification relates to the proposal of the Defence and National Security Committee, which proposes the introduction of a word here on social, health and pension insurance, and the holding of the government's scheduled Day of 12 April 2005 in order not to spend one day with two very important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u56	Thank you. Your Honor, is there any reason for us to put this question to the vote and make a decision? Thank you. The Supreme Council Resolution on "Government of Ukraine Day" in March 2005 is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 6468]] Let me remind you. It's April, isn't it? In April 2005. This is the order of the day of this government. On the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, health and security of war veterans. And retired. Just a minute. Medical and Retirement. Now, one minute. Providing war veterans and marking the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945. From the procedure, please log in for three minutes. April 12th, right? On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u57	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u58	Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear friends, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I get this impression when we print these government days that we have a normal plan of work going on. There's a government, it's gonna work a long time, then it's okay. The government doesn't know what it's going to be. And we ourselves, I think, are ensnaring ourselves. Why are we doing this? Perhaps when there is a new government, new issues will be more important and interesting that we will have to listen to on Government Day. So I think there's going to be a new session, there's going to be a new calendar plan, and we're going to agree with the new government that's going to listen to questions on Government Day. And then we'll change all that, believe me. I don't think I should take it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u60	In principle, the agenda and the question on Government Day is defined by the Supreme Council, although it's clear that it would have to do with the government, but I think if there are new issues in the government, some other proposals, we'll be happy to consider it, we'll do one thing and we'll do one thing, I understand. Please, Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Please pass the word to Kruczko Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u62	Georgi Korniyovich, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! Our committee supports the proposal for a government day like this. I don't know what's even more important in the state than taking care of veterans. I think of it as cynical statements when they say there might be something else that's interesting. We need to discuss a lot, but we need to consider this immediately. And the second. We didn't offer to add pension insurance to the committee by chance. The Supreme Council passed very important laws last year, and it was signed by the President, particularly on the elimination of injustice -- the imbalance in the pension insurance of military pensioners, depending on the time they were released from the army. But now it's all in question. The Supreme Council cannot allow such lawlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u64	Yes. Razwadowski Victor, "The One Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Demiohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u66	Vladimir Demyohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u67	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, indeed, is an important issue, we cannot stay away. What is more, this year is a anniversary year, which is very important, and we are putting aside the day of the Government for the summer. You can't do that. I suggest we have a party in February. Why? Because the first steps of the new Government will be to prepare changes to the 2005 budget and the outcome of the Government's day should be proposals for a change to the budget. Yes, ministers are being replaced, the Prime Minister is being replaced, but the main experts, who are acting, will remain in the Office. That is why I propose to consider it in February. Proposals for a change to the budget should be a day and the outcome of the day of the Government. We cannot postpone this important issue until 9 May.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u68	Yes. Thank you. It also makes sense. This may be the course of action, fellow believers. Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk and the Committee on Economic Policy to consider your question in April, and in March to consider the issue of pensioners? And we're going to make a decision on the moratorium and we're going to have a new government formed and then we can agree on all of these. But you have to agree here. You agree, don't you, Valentina Petrovna? Semenyuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u69	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with you, but on condition that we still vote today because believe me, I left work last night at nearly 12 o'clock, glad to write all the protests to the Public Prosecutor's Office, I'm just in the Commission getting drunk of the violations that we're seeing right now. So I agree with your proposal, only after that, I think after about two o'clock, we're going to make a decision that we've prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u70	Well, here we have unity in this issue and there is understanding. Then, fellow Members, if you don't mind the amendment that the question that was proposed in Bill 6164, we write there in April of the month, and in this draft of Decree 6468, we write in March 2005 and add words after words of medical and pension insurance. With this in mind, I'm putting together a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in March 2005. [[Registration number 6468]] Please vote. [[11:00:12]] For 287 Decision taken. And we've agreed, we've already introduced this. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 33; "Regions of Ukraine" - 43; Communists 58; People's Agrarian - 23; SDPU - 19; "One Ukraine" - 21, SPU - 20; Timoshenko - 11; "Hard Ukraine" - 16; "Union" - 11; "Democratic Initiatives" - 8; "Centre" - 3; non-fractional - 21. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine: The current state, problems and prospects for development is announced for consideration. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Oksana Bilozer. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u71	Oksana Bilozer, Victor Yushchenk faction, Our Ukraine, Social Christian Party. In accordance with article 1 of the Constitution, Ukraine is a social state, which means that such a State's policy must be primarily directed to the protection of human interests. But as life testifies, most of our Ukrainian citizens are socially vulnerable. This is especially true of older ones, single mothers, people with limited physical capacity. People who have lost their jobs or jobs need the attention of the State, our young people who cannot find a job after the end of their schooling. And it is social insurance and social security that are the tools by which the state has to take care of the most vulnerable species of the population. But today there are a number of serious problems that need immediate solutions. The main problem of the social system is that it does not provide real protection not only at the level defined by the Constitution but at a normal physiological level, let alone satisfy spiritual, cultural and other needs. Social security legislation contains a large number of social security providers, but the vast majority of these laws are not being implemented. Today, there are more than 30 framework laws in the sphere of social protection, which are certainly a world record. And each of us national deputies continues to receive thousands of electoral letters asking for material assistance, for employment, or for funding for treatment, and for other needs of our citizens. In recent years, much has been said about raising living standards, increasing pensions, and other social benefits. Instead of actually improving their welfare, people have only experienced price increases. And so I want to ask, who will be responsible for these promises, and when will they finally become reality? Today's top priority is to build a system of social protection that is effective, understandable to citizens and unburdened for business. We need to develop solutions that will allow for full implementation of the social guarantees provided for by valid social protection laws. Because it's nonsense when the law doesn't work. How many social laws do we have? Ask our veterans, our disabled and our teachers. That's why we need to start a social dialogue today, which should be driven by the need to reform the existing legislative authority, to radically modify it, taking into account the interests of those types of people who really need social support and protection from the state. Having parliamentary hearings on social protection issues in the Supreme Council will help to identify priorities that will enable Ukraine to meet the social standards of the developed world. And then every Ukrainian citizen can feel that they live in a country that cares about them. Please vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there still a need for the committee to listen? One minute, please, Dry. Well, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u73	Honorary colleagues offered by a group of national deputies to hold parliamentary hearings "Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine" are extremely important in encouraging all branches of government to determine the way to build up the Ukrainian model of the social state. [[Bilozer, Gabrieluk, and others]] We think that the most acceptable way for Ukraine is to build a social, corporate and social state. This model allows us to get the best out of the experience of the past, responds to the positive trends in modern society and is most fully embedded in social reforms that we want to implement in Ukraine. In addition, it is best suited to the Ukrainian mentality -- solidarity, collectiveism, social initiative, the employability of our people, and so on. If we accept that the most typical State with the social-corporative model of the social state is Germany, it is also not surprising that the individual directions of social reforms in Ukraine are developed with the support of the country's experience, particularly with regard to the introduction of the social insurance and social security system in Ukraine. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour has concluded that the legislative proposal by the authors of the decision is aimed at studying and analysing the current state of social protection of the population and its possible improvement. The Committee believes that the unification of legislative, executive, local government, scientists, social insurance funds, and public organizations will allow for the identification of priority measures for the implementation of the social standards provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine. Such an approach will also allow you to establish a constructive mechanism for the effective operation of each of the social insurance funds, the improvement of the machinery and the types of social security benefits you offer. The committee proposes to amend the draft Decree: replace the first day of parliamentary hearings on May 17, 2005. In part two, change to April 1, 2005, and delete article six. The results of the review recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Decision taking into account the above proposals. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour requests support for the draft Order 6279 with proposals from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The authors of the bill, the authors of the decree, agree with these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u74	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I think your honorary colleagues are absolutely right about the offer, because you and I have just agreed, as we accept the changes to the calendar plan, on how we will work in February. And on this day that we're planning parliamentary hearings now, we're going to be working on committees in February. That's why there's logic. The committee's proposal is to move it to May. I see that Oksana does not object. Yes, for the reasons of the vote, Phydenko, Cherniak - and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I want to support the drafters of the bill, so that we can still hold parliamentary hearings on this very important issue. Indeed, on the one hand, the Constitution proclaims that we are a social state. Part one of the first article 46 guarantees citizens the right to social protection, part three of the same article says that no less than a minimum of living must be social protection. Well, unfortunately, that's the same thing. On the other hand, we have a series of 5-6s, probably special funds that deal with social diversity. They also have major problems, such as the problem of filling up. We know a very big problem is when in small labour groups, where 5-6-10-15 people work, where there are no work books, where there is no accounting concept, virtually no one makes any credits to pension funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u76	Yes, please, Cherniak, Kirilczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I also want to support the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on this extremely relevant subject, which is enshrined both in the Constitution and in our decisions, and in the decisions of the government. In practice, however, the issue of social insurance and social security in Ukraine has not been resolved, including by legislation many things have not been resolved. That's the Supreme Council's debt. That's the first one. And the second. Experience has shown that parliamentary hearings are very poor. Parliament is speaking like that cock: he was whining, and then whether it would be morning or not. So we need to strengthen the Supreme Council's control function and not turn parliamentary hearings into air shocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u78	That's a good offer. Kirilchuk. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u79	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The question is archival, it needs to be asked, and it needs to be asked now. We already have the Social Insurance Fund, we have other kinds of insurance. And practically before that hearing, the commission needs to do a cost-use analysis, because they're often used for other purposes. This is true of social benefits, which include several ministries and departments, beginning with the sick and ending with the healing of children. The question of May is important. The main thing is to prepare well for him, not just in the hall to clarify his relationship. And further prepare a normal determination on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Social Insurance and Social Security in Ukraine: Today's state of affairs, problems and prospects for development." Registration number 6279. With the additions offered by the profile committee, that's to change the dates that are here. Angry is on May 17th, and from February 1st to May 1st. Please vote. [[11:11:54]] For 309 It's been decided. Thank you. There's a bill for Parliamentary hearings on "National Cinematography: Status, Problems and Ways to Solve It." Registration number 6455. Paul Mikhailovich Mukchan reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Our Ukraine faction, Ukrainian People's Party, Paul Mokchan. In yesterday's Enlightenment Word magazine, two well-known Ukrainian filmmakers, Yuri Ilyenko and Mikhailo Ilyenko, spoke with caution, and I think it's more relevant than ever. When they told about what happened during the years of independence with the Ukrainian cinematographer, they cited such statistics when out of the 250 film theaters of Class A there were almost none left, of the 25,000 film institutions of professional, rural, military, club closed. When five film studios have been basked in the last two years, when instead of 80 annual productions of these film studios, we only made it this year. Last year for just one year, I'd like to ask you if this is a normal thing. Can we continue to be reconciled to the fact that the active ingredient of culture, the national cinematographer, has actually been removed from our national life? Hundreds of thousands of experts, who have accumulated over the decades, are now unemployed, working not only in markets, but some of them have already committed suicide. The entire industry, you could say, has been paralyzed and for the past two years, the leadership of the national film studio has caused all the property, the land, and this is the Lasomy. Our most flattering pieces are in both the capital of Ukraine and Odessa and Yalta. It is known that the deputy Sovkovic, who was in charge of the Longzhenko Film Studio, turned it into his own business base. That is why we have asked for immediate and immediate consideration of the whole range of problems that are not only related to the film installation, but also to budgetaryly fill certain lines so that our entire industry can work, not just to preserve the situation, but to provide a new impetus. That's why we'd like to look at what's called cultural expansion at parliamentary hearings, and what's called information occupation, and what's needed is decisive action. For example, as the introduction of tax production and taxation for our production, to set quotas in cinemas, when we count a certain percentage for the production of our film, every sixth bracelet, based on the example of France, invests in developing our industries, at least one movie theater in every city, I'm not talking about a village, I'm not talking about a network of rural clubs that are paralyzed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u82	Thank you. Let's be clear. No questions asked. Please sit down, Paul Mikhailovich. It's an organizational question, it's not really a consideration of the issue. When we listen to the question, there will be questions. Dear colleagues! I'm looking at your draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "National Cinematography. Status, problems and ways to solve them." [[Registration number 6455]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. There's a bill for Parliamentary Hearing: "Cultural Policy in Ukraine. Priorities, principles and ways of implementation" (registration number 6465. Paul Mikhailovich Mukchan reports, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u83	The natural summation of the past age of independent Ukraine was those ideological parameters that had a clear social moral impact and the last years were known to have been vain expectations that in an independent Ukraine everything would change radically, culturally, spiritually. Indeed, the restoration of Ukraine, as a nation, is a reality independent of all its manifestations, including cultural ones. I mean, in national, Ukrainian measure, it didn't happen. We have witnessed how our shrines are stained, how they are kept at a level unconsciously total. nations with cruelty, fornication, permissiveness. Social awareness manipulators, working their technology in recent years, want to glue anything out of the nation that has failed in other times. Obedient, receptive, and easily guided by the piatritechnologies of the people. As the events of the last two months have shown, this hypocrisy has been rejected and unseen, it is not only possible, as it has been imposed upon us. We had hoped, but we did not witness the political power of the nation’s leadership and the destruction of moral principles to cease in principle. Now we associate all our hopes with a new flaw, with new priorities, and with new directions in the cultural field. National culture, and national politics, must be an ideologie, a concept of the development of the humanitarian sphere in Ukraine. And that is why we are proposing today, without delay tomorrow, without waiting for the final authority and all the vertical powers to be formed, to consider the problems that we have inherited. And I think that this painful period of economic reform must be accompanied by the reform of the humanitarian sphere in Ukraine. And that's why we set out with the initiative of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, which we will soon, in April months, consider these problems, which are spiritually fundamental, without which we cannot talk about establishing and developing, and Ukraine's perspective as an independent European nation. Because without a national culture, just a surrogate culture where we raised our children, we can't build a strong state. And that's why we're asking you to consider this at parliamentary hearings in order to make this a complex system of analysis with appropriate proposals. And they already existed. We held parliamentary hearings about the spiritual crisis of society, but not a single point has been completed, starting with the lack of budgeting, even as the area of saving the village begins with a spiritual basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u84	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. Let's be clear. I would like to vote on the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Culture Policy in Ukraine: Priorities, Principles and Ways of Implementation", registration number 6456. [[April 20, 2005]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:42]] For 251 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I understand very well every one of you who wants to testify that he respects either culture or cinema and so on, and so on, but we accept organizational and technical questions about listening to him. If there was a denial that you should not listen, then you helped to agitate that the matter should be heard. That's when we listen to them, then you say it. So let's be logical. The motives will be when we consider matters, not inclusion in order. We're essentially putting the question in order of the day. Be alert to your health. There's a draft Parliamentary Hearing Order, "Technical regulation as a consumer policy tool in the way of improving quality of life", registration number 6303. Report by Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Vadim Gurov, faction of Ukraine. As time has shown, the global economy requires removing not only the barriers created by tariffs and quotas but also technical barriers, such as standards, procedures, assessments, compliance. Therefore, national standardisation bodies are required to apply standards to promote international trade in goods and services, to improve quality, productivity, efficiency and reliability at all levels of production. The first phase of the reform of the national technical regulation system was adopted in 2001 by the laws of Ukraine on standardization of conformity, as drafted and adopted by the Industrial Policy Committee. Step two. Improving existing legislation, introducing new European directives, such as the transition from mandatory standards to voluntary ones, the adoption of legislation, technical regulations. Over the three years, in the vast majority of areas, harmonised standards have been adopted according to internationally recognized rules. On January 1, 2005, 2,203 government standards were adopted. Thus, 596 standards were adopted in 2004. The practice of three years of legislation in the field of standardization, conformity and dynamics of economic processes has revealed the need for it to be further developed and to make appropriate changes to existing laws. Because technical regulation and consumer policy as a basis for improving the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens require concerted action by the general public. It is therefore proposed to hold parliamentary hearings on technical regulation as a tool of consumer policy on the way to improving the quality of life of Ukrainians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u86	Thank you, Vadim Mikolaiovich. Let's be clear. I'm voting on the adoption of the Parliamentary Hearing Order "Technical regulation as a tool of consumer policy on the way to improving quality of life", registration number 6303. Please vote. [[11:24:48]] For-140. The decision is not taken. There's a bill of Parliamentary Hearing, "The Prospects for Public Broadcasting in Ukraine", registration number 6476. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, this is a draft decree proposed by the People's Deputies, virtually by the majority of our committee, representing various MPs and factions. We were involved in the fact that the discussion in Ukraine since 1997 should be translated into a practical plane. Since 1997, when the Supreme Council has passed the Social Television and Broadcasting Act, and then the President has issued a decree to create a working group for the creation of public television, nothing has really been done. Public television and radio in Ukraine are only possible when the executive power along with the legislature understands that national state television is not television for the President and for the government and for the Supreme Council, but district television companies are not a company for governors. So if there's an understanding in Parliament and there's an understanding of the new government and the President, I think we can go a fast enough way. There are plenty of scenarios and mechanisms. That's why we're proposing to discuss this at parliamentary hearings, because there are options, let's say, with total lack of advertising, like in many countries where commercial advertising is not allowed on this public speaking television. There are options for transitions, there is a difficulty with the founders to discuss, there is a problem with the current state of National Television and district television companies that need serious inventory and understanding of what NTCU is today? You know that our attempts to find out at the end of what NTCU lives for, how much it earns from advertising, what contracts there are, have not been successful, because we have not received full information, but I will say that there are more than thousands of people working in the state. The vast majority of people in NTCU today are not involved in the creative process and receive modest costs. I mean, today it's a question of how can a powerful state television make a strong public talk, where there is no telemarket and not a President with a government, but where there are regions, education, culture, maybe, in the old days, televisions, where teachers can quietly turn on television and listen to wise people when they go to television lessons. I mean, there's plenty more work to do, but I don't think the committee has the right to take functions like finally make a decision and prepare a law. These are both the functions of Parliament as a whole, both government and the public. We therefore propose that we discuss this at parliamentary hearings and then give the task of preparing the relevant law and the relevant organizational decisions of the executive branch. The full support of the public organizations, the television sets on this issue are, and I would like to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u88	Yeah, I'm voting on a parliamentary hearing resolution on "The Prospects for Public Broadcasting in Ukraine." Registration number 6476. Please vote. [[11:28:48]] For 260 Dear colleagues, me. I can hear you. Dear colleagues, Boris Jakovic, you were unfortunately not in the session room when we agreed on this: we are now discussing organizational and technical issues with you. We're putting it in the order of the day. When this question is considered, then you will say, and so on. Yes, two factions: The People's Agrarian Party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine are asking for a break. So I realized that they wanted to use the break to announce the application. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Yesterday, in a statement from this rostrum, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine strongly protested the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers aimed at destroying the first pairs of parity in relations between the village and the state. It is not only a violation of agrarian agreements with government officials, constructive cooperation in the rehabilitation of the Ukrainian village, the discrediting of state agrarian policies, and the laws of Ukraine are being severely undermined. Judge for yourself: Under the 2004 state budget, what the government claims is essentially the funding of most of the government’s agri-industrial programs has been cut short. As a result, important programs such as supplementation for high - weight young people, crop supplementation, short - term credits, and others have failed. The same applies to the government’s obligation to finance the gasification of rural areas. We called twice on this rostrum to have an immediate impact on the situation that had taken place. However, our demands were met only on January 6th before the festival, when the State Department announced that 388 million dollars had been allocated. At the same time, at the oral direction of the Regional Branch, it was prohibited for the Regional Ministry to conduct accounting operations under separate government programs, and the costs were essentially cancelled. Is that stately? They rebelled, they deceived the people, and, in fact, they just laughed at the villagers one more time. Today, we and the rest of the factions have a lot of calls, a telegram from angry peasants, from different regions both west and east and south and north. What kind of politics is that? Similar principles of government work have led Ukraine’s agriculture to an extremely difficult situation, have led people to mistrust in power, and have destroyed the peasants ’ faith in the word of the State. In this regard, the faction of the National Agrarian Party of Ukraine strongly requires the government to comply immediately with the law and its obligations to repay the peasants ’ debt and not provoke them to take protest measures. We can go out on Midan, too. And we ask the Supreme Council to support our demands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u90	Yes, please, I promised the Bespalloma microphone procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u91	Boris Bespaliy, faction of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, I really want to step out of the procedure. First. If we set up a procedure for dealing with matters, it should be the same for all issues, and it is not correct when some draft decrees on the appointment of parliamentary government days are voted on or parliamentary hearings are discussed, and others are not. I mean, I want to say that you're now allowing the inequality of conditions. It can't be. This is the first one. Secondly, the question of holding parliamentary hearings in itself is not procedural, because parliamentary hearing is a procedure that costs, by the way, a lot of money, and takes time, is a broadcast, that is, an important question, we need to discuss the subject. And the third. I regret to say that you, as chairman, favour the faction that you came out of the Rules and followed. This is generally an unequal view of the day’s affairs as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u92	Yes, Your Honor Boris Yakovich, in the front lines of your remarks, I agree 100 percent. As for the last one, please pick up the transcripts and see if you're wrong. Yes, let's move on to the question of "To reconsider with the proposals of the President of Ukraine." Ukraine's legislation to approve the 2005 minimum of living with the President's proposals is being complied with. Registration number 6032. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian Supreme Council passed on October 19, 2004 the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Approval Act 2005 is not supported by the President of Ukraine. First. This law of Ukraine was adopted with a violation, as in the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act, in violation of the single order of calculation of the size of the subsistence minimum established by the methodology, by the way, approved in 2000. Other documents as well. Ukraine's Housing Minimum Act was still needed before the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian State Budget Act. As you know, there is now a conflict of laws, because the article of the Law on the 2005 State Budget sets out the specific size of the living minimum, which consists of an average of 382 bracelets, as well as of various socio-demographic groups, for children under 6 years of age - 335, from 6 to 18 years - 422 bracelets, for working persons - 409, and for non-working persons - 300 bracelets. If the Ukrainian Act is adopted in the size proposed by this law, i.e. living minimum 423 bracelets on average, 376 bracelets for children under 6 years of age, 6 to 18 years of age - 468 bracelets, for workers - 453 and for people who have lost their jobs - 332 bracelets, this will result in some consequences. First. In view of the fact that we have social benefits, based on the size of the subsistence minimum, and the main incomes of the local budgets are the income tax of the citizens, we are now underestimating the subsistence minimum compared to that approved for the 2005 State Budget, which is about 650 million dollars short of local budgets. In addition, you know that we also have a lot of social benefits based on the proportion to the minimum of living. So, for example, for state social assistance, it's going to have to be increased by 100 million dollars to index citizens' income, by the way, the indexation is going to be done within the minimum of living, and it's going to have to be worth 190 million dollars, so this is a situation that I think can come out of these paradoxical situations as follows: given that the Supreme Council has decided to review the Ukraine State Budget Act 2005 in February this year, it would be logical to consider a new government law on the establishment of a living minimum for 2005 before the change to the Ukraine's government budget is considered, because 382 bracelets, they also do not correspond to reality. When this value was calculated, the consumer price index for 2004 was 107%. We know that it's going to be close to getting the consumer price index up close, about 12%, so this sum, it doesn't correspond to reality. Just as the reality of 423 bracelets does not match. So I would like to propose to support the President's proposal to reject this bill and return to it when considering changes to the 2005 State Budget Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u94	Thank you, Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, but you say he is. Yes, please come back, they want to ask you. Write down three minutes for questions. Yes, please, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u95	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Mr. Minister, it seems to me that an epoch with a subsistence minimum that has taken place and continues this year does not honor our social policy at all. So we took a minimum of 432 bracelets in parliament last year. And now you're proposing to support the President's veto, and you want our parliament, like the Janukovich government, to also enter history as the first to reduce the principled social parameter. The government of Yanukovich has reduced the minimum wage in a legislative way in its time, and we, if we now support the proposals, will reduce the subsistence minimum that we have set ourselves at a higher limit to a lower limit. So I would suggest that you and the government leave 432 bracelets as it is right now and give a political signal when you look at the budget in February.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u96	Thank you. First of all, it is impossible to consider the number of 432 bracelets at all, because that Ukrainian Law, which was voted by the Supreme Council, sets a minimum of 423 bracelets for living. It's different. The Ukrainian National Deputies voted in favour of the State Budget Act 2005. That's exactly what I've been talking about, and I've been talking about that saying that a minimum of 382 bracelets of living have been voted on, this is article 61 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 of Ukraine. That is, now, even if the veto of the President of Ukraine is overcome and a minimum of 423 bracelets are set, everything will act equally within the limits provided for by the Ukrainian State Budget Act and within the limits of the expenditure provided for by the Ukrainian State Budget. So you can now take a living minimum of 1,000 dollars. I have another suggestion that now, if the Supreme Council by decision of the Supreme Council at the time of adoption of the 2005 budget provides for changes in February this year, to return to this issue, because the procedure is the following, that only the Cabinet of Ministers introduces this law to the Supreme Council, and not as the law on 423 bracelets has been passed in violation of this requirement. I mean, there's a compromise normal option to keep the budget out of harm's way, and you know that the Ukrainian President's Law on Minimum Pensions and Minimum Pensions has been signed. It was introduced on January 1, 2005. If we take it now, we get 332 bracelets, we're going to have to set a minimum pension of 332 bracelets. And the State Budget Act does not have these funds. So let's, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine will decide, in principle, we are ready to do so and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u97	Please have a seat. From the Committee Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u98	Honorable national MPs, the issue of the legislative definition of a minimum of living, have become objects of political manipulation from time to time, unfortunately. In this session room, we also observed a blockade with the adoption of the law, which led to an old rule for a time, causing damage to socially vulnerable populations, and proposals for over-ground rules that could not and did not work. So let me remind everyone that from 1994 to 1999, in Ukraine, there was a calculated social standard in the form of a so - called low-security limit. It included only four indicators, nonsocialization, harsh criticism in the Supreme Council by representatives of primarily left-wing Communist factions, socialists, and progressive socialists. So since 2000, basic legislation 966-14 on living minimum has been in place to combat poverty. According to article 4 of this Law, its indicators, such as the State’s social security, such as the minimum wage should precede and be included in the Ukraine Budget Act for a specific year. The Ukrainian National Budget 2005 Act, which we have adopted, provides for a specific article 61: living minimum per person per month of 382 bracelets and separately for all major social and demographic groups. The minimum of living is based on a common method of living. Today, it is appropriate to say that the methodology itself, as well as the basic parameters of the minimum of living, do not provide a society, does not yet meet the quality of life parameters of a European person. That is probably why a group of national MPs passed Bill 6032, which proposed the approval of a minimum per person per month of 423 bracelets for 2005 and according to the main social demographic groups. They argue that the government's inaccuracies are based on a future forecast of inflation and economic growth. The Ukrainian President's argument that the bill was rejected has just been heard from the minister. On my part, the Committee, by a majority of votes, based on the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, taking into account that Law 6032 contradicts Articles 1, 3, 4 of the Basic Law, Article 27 of the Budget Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council, taking into account the approval by the State budget of Ukraine for 2005 of a specific subsistence minimum, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the draft reject it. [[Counterpartner Viacheslav Kirilenko]] And I'm going to add, otherwise we're not just going to create a coalition of laws, difficulties in places, but serious problems for a new government that, by the way, can make its proposals for the results of work in the first quarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u99	Yes, thank you. Have a seat. I see there's motive. Please sign up for three minutes on the basis of the vote. Please show me on the board. Insomnia, Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u101	Please, Kirylenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u102	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. My fellow Members, I think that if Parliament now agrees to the President's proposal and reduces the accepted minimum of living from 432 to 382, then we will take the wrong political step, because before the social, including the budget figures that will take place in February this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should give a political signal and a new government, and all factions that social indicators should never go down again, and if they are to be viewed, only in the direction of increasing. This applies to the subsistence minimum as the basic social parameter first. So I would like to make an alternative proposal from the committee's decision: to raise the issue of overcoming the President's veto and returning the number that Parliament has approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u103	Thank you. Demyochin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u104	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! I want to hear the position of our faction of the "One Ukraine" party. Today we have carefully considered this bill on factions and propose to overcome the veto of the President. The thing is, if we look at the macro indicators that we are currently projected to have in the last year, we will have inflation of more than 12 per cent. And, of course, 423 bracelets are small. We are very respectful of the work of the Ministry of Social Policy, they have done a lot of work over the past year, and so to speak, there has been a lot of money, but we believe that these 423 bracelets are an indicator below which cannot be lowered in the revision of the budget for this year. We propose to overcome the President's veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u105	Yes, please, we have another minute. Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u106	Please give the word to Vernigori Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u107	Vernigori's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u108	Thank you for your word. Leonid Vernigor, Socialist Party, head of the Poltava District Council of Trades. I'm very surprised that the reporters didn't say a word about what agreements between the unions were in determining the minimum wage. But I want to warn everyone who doubts whether or not the President's veto should be over: the 205th and the 237th bracelets begin -- when we enter, when we don't enter. I think that if we want our budget to be social in 1005 years, not what it is today, we need to raise the base from which the Pension Fund will be funded. How, then, can we do so if we have a planned pension above the minimum wage today? I think we should be friends today to start a new era in the formation of a social base and generally the social side of our budget or part of our budget. And 423 equals is the calculated, weighted and the sum that actually gives us the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would really like us to pay attention to one of the last words that I spoke here from the rostrum, representing the President's veto, the Minister of Social Work and Politics. When we planned our calculations for 2004, they were very optimistic about inflation. And by October, this optimism was said to have been assured and maintained. According to recent reports, inflation was 12.04 percent in December. According to the Ministry of Economics, in January and February this indicator may not only remain at the same level but may even grow. So, of course, we realize, too, that when we accepted this, if I'm not mistaken, it was Victor Pinzenic's proposal on this bill, when we adopted it, we talked about the fact that only one subject - cabinet minister could be the author of the legislative initiative on this issue. But you and I went to accept. And I think the speakers here rightly said that this might be a good signal for a future government when it will work in accordance with our decision to clarify the State Budget Act 2005. So let us take this matter seriously. I'll put the proposals in order, I'll put the proposals in order of their coming. [[the voting procedure has already been made]] The President's proposal will be voted down: he proposes to reject this law. And this same proposal, this proposal is supported by a profile committee. And then we're going to put to the vote the proposals that were made by the national MPs. So I'm voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian law on the approval of living minimum for 2005. Registration number 6032. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:52:06]] For-34 Not supported. There were suggestions, honourable colleagues, there were proposals to overcome the veto. I'm putting this motion to a vote. The proposal to defeat the President's veto is voted on by the Ukrainian Act on the approval of living minimum for 2005. Registration number 6032. Please vote. [[11:52:51]] For 365 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 95, Ukraine - 44, Communist - 58, National Agrarian Party - 22, Social-Democratic - 25, Ukraine - 21, Socialists - 20, Timoshenko - 19, NDP, Labour Ukraine - 8, Union - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 11, Center - 10, Non-faction - 23. [[united]] Dear colleagues, we may have made a decision with some nuances of breaking the relevant laws, but I think you and I have made the right decision for our people. Thank you for your support. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I think you're ready to embrace the post of minister. No one's offering it to you yet. What are you so worried about?Oh, my God! What are you so worried about? Yes, please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u110	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I would like from the procedure of what we voted on. In our own time, we made a wise decision not to vote separately on the Minimum Wages Act, but this standard of voting directly in the budget. I think it would be wise for this vote to be the last one as a separate law. Let's give up the minimum wage, enter the minimum wage, but vote it in the budget. Because we've had a big break again today. We had a minimum wage left in our budget, and the subsistence allowance went somewhere forward. It's as simple as the wish of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u111	I think that, Valery Mikhailovich, quite right, let's make changes to the budget code and predict it in the budget, that's a good point. Yes. Dear colleagues! Let's take a quick look, if we hold back, then we'll take a break then, another law with the President's proposals. This is the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, registration number 2353. Reported by Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich, Deputy Finance Minister. Prepare the Suprun. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The President's proposals for the bill are as follows. The law proposes to place the regional budgets of the cities of the Republic of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the regional value of financing rural, rural, and urban cultural, club, and library expenses, rather than providing funding from the budgets of villages, villages, cities of district value and their unifications, as is now the case. The established procedure for financing cultural institutions does not correspond to part two of article 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the costs of district budgets are used to implement joint projects of the territorial communities or to implement joint socio-economic and cultural programmes, and article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, according to which the district budget costs relate to the implementation of district councils of measures to ensure the common interests of the respective territorial communities. Such an approach does not meet the requirements of article 7 and article 86 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the allocation of expenditure between local budgets is based on the principle of subsidiarity, taking into account the maximum possible approximation of relevant social services to their direct consumer. It should also be borne in mind that the cultural institutions involved are owned by the territorial community of villages, villages, and cities. According to article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the organization of financial security for such cultural institutions is part of the autonomous powers of executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. Hence, the budgets of villages, villages, and cities. Turning the financing of these cultural institutions to the recognition of the District Budgets will narrow down the right of the relevant territorial community to decide for itself the issue of local importance in the area of culture guaranteed by article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So we propose to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to exclude the rules that provide for the transfer of expenditure to finance rural, rural and urban cultural palaces, library clubs from district budgets and budgets of republican cities. And it's proposed in the adopted law, in article 1 replace the words and numbers 3 and 4 with the words and numbers of paragraph 3 and paragraph 2, in article 2, paragraphs 3 and 6 with the exception. In addition, it is necessary to adjust the time of entry into force of this Act, since as of today almost 15% of the local budgets have been approved and in accordance with the budget code, they should all be approved no later than February 1st, that is, when this Act becomes effective, if it is adopted, all local budgets, including rural, rural, urban, district, meaning will be of
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u113	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich, please sit down. The Supreme of the Committee, the First Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u114	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, reviewed the President’s proposals for the Ukrainian law to amend the Ukrainian Budget Code, with registration number 2353. Unfortunately, we have not taken a decision on the Committee and have now made two proposals for the Supreme Council: firstly, under any circumstances, this law can only be introduced as of 1 January 2006 and not as of 1 January 2005, as indicated in the proposals to this law, since we have already approved the budget, the budget has allocated completely all the costs in terms of the formula between the State budget and the District Budgets. It's different. We propose to support the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on amending the Budget Code for the following arguments. First of all, what will happen if such a law is passed? Imagine that there are clubs, libraries that are owned and owned by such cities. According to the law, we are effectively transferring the financing of these institutions from the local budget, from the city to the district, which is totally out of line with the logic of the municipal property of the territorial community. What is proposed by this law? It is proposed to transfer responsibility from the village and village councils to the district council, but this will not increase funding, for the amount of money will be the same. The committee would suggest that the best way to make changes in the comprehensive review of changes to the Law is to go to the Budget Code, which would determine the following: that the distribution of funds is based on the formula that is financed through the village council, the village council, maintenance, but costs are no less than the actual need to maintain such an establishment. That would be a real solution to the question, a complex solution to the question. Under these circumstances, we also have a separate opinion, in the MP of Nightshank Mikoli Petrovich, I think he's going to talk about it separately about these proposals. So we think the smallest thing today is going to be evil -- the adoption of this law with the President's proposals, but with the entry into force of January 1, 2006. The best option would be for the Supreme Council to develop a detailed implementation of this problem and to make adjustments to the budget code submitted by the Committee on Budgetary Questions. This is going to solve the problems actually in terms of increasing funding for such institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Ludmila Pavlovno, sit down, please. I see the motives are desirable. Please sign in. Three minutes from the vote. Lighten up. A miner. Fuckin' after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Ludmila Pavlovna made public the position of the Committee on Budgets. But I would still like to specify which points in which order to be put to the vote. The proposal she called second is more of a priority. That is, to refer to the decision of the next Budget Code, which is being developed by the Budget Committee and will be carried out from February so that it can be included in the following budgetary processes. So first the Budget Code, then the adoption with the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u117	Please, Yeshchenka, follow him Klimpush.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u118	Fucking Communist faction. If you look at the President's proposal, I understand him. As far as the Cherkas region is concerned, he only knows the village of Shevchenkov in the Cherkas region. The area where he took the initiative to reconstruct the school. But let's go through every village, every village, and see what state the same palaces of culture are in. In the Cherkas region, they are virtually inflamed. There's nowhere for people to go. The village council says there's no money. That's why the issue needs to be resolved and we need to beat the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u119	Please, Klimpus. After him, Ioff.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u120	My fellow Members, I would like to point out that today, due to the lack of funds in rural budgets, the financing of local health and cultural institutions is not enough. The result is the actual collapse of these facilities. This situation is unacceptable, especially in view of the fact that more than 32 percent of the population lives in rural and rural areas in Ukraine. To our deep conviction, we can greatly improve this funding, primarily on the basis of a more even distribution of budgetary resources between the population at different levels of economic development. I would like to point out that this project is a project supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which is in favour of overcoming the President's veto. So the "One Ukraine" faction will vote in favour of defeat and ask for our support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u121	Iofphe I can't see. There is a special opinion of Noshchenko. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u122	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that the precedent for financing the rural community's property from the district budgets is, and it can be said to be extended to cultural institutions. The arguments: well, first of all, the reporter actually said that the money from this would not be added, but ultimately the responsibility would be increased because inadequate funding as the Ministry's institution -- the Chief Executive, the Ministry of Culture and the clubs themselves. Second, today you need to treat not only the physical condition of a person but also the soul. Is it possible to do so in a cold, semi - decomposed club, in a library where for years the bookstore has not been filled and even the newspapers have not been published? Probably not. And secondly, I agree with what we're doing in some way to level the financing of cultural institutions, depending on the economic development of the territory. So I propose to put the veto to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u123	Yes, Black, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this is a question of parliamentary hearings on culture. This is just a specific example of financing culture. It can't be a democratic and civilized country where there's no cultural priority -- our main deficit, it's a deficit in the power of culture and the culture of power. And that's why we have to overcome the veto to raise the culture of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's mobilize. I want to draw your attention to the wisdom of our budget committee, which has moved the matter to our shoulders. But I think we'll sort this out. We're going to need a few votes, because we're going to vote on the President's proposals first, and then we're going to vote on other proposals. That's why I'm voting on the President's proposal for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, registration number 2353. Here are two suggestions, please. First, the proposal is made for paragraphs 3 and 4 to replace the words and figures with only paragraph 3. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:31]] For-52 It's not coming through. Another proposal from the President will be put to the vote in order to exclude paragraph three to six in article 2. Please identify yourself with this proposal. President's proposal. [[12:07:59]] For-25 Yeah, now I'm going to put a proposal on breaking the veto on this law. But be careful, fellow believers, but given the logical position, the offer she made. The time that has passed does not allow us to overcome it clearly. So please overcome the veto with the date of entry into force as of January 1, 2006. Please vote. [[12:08:45]] For 318 Veto has been defeated, I stress again, with the clarification that this law has been introduced since January 1, 2006. The factions are required, please. "Our Ukraine" - 51, "Ukrainian Regions" - 32, Communists - 58, People's Agrarian Party - 26, Social Democratic Union - 20, "One Ukraine" - 21, Socialist - 20, Block Timoshenko - 19, NDP, Hard Ukraine - 14, Alliance - 15, Democratic Initiatives - 13, Center - 3, Postfaction - 26. Thank you, Your Honor. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u126	Now, according to tradition, you and I have to consider the question of the election of judges. This is the registration number of Decree 6491. Please, head of committee Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Your Honor! The Committee on Legal Policy considered 2 applications by the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the head of the Supreme Economic Court for the election of judges. You will be given a draft of decision 6491 and, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part one of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine proposes to elect judges on an indefinite basis: to the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Berzinsch Valentina Stepanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov region of Bogdan Viacheslav Volodymyrovich, the Russian Catherine Grigorovna, Shevchenko Tetjan Valentinovna; to the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Denisenko Lukov Lukyanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd district of Kadgrob Albin Ivanovna; the Military Court of Appeal of the Western Region of Kovaljak Jaroslav Juriovich; the local Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Igor Anatoliyovich; the local Winnicki District Court of the Fedchuk District, Vitali Volodymirovich; The local Melitopol Regional Court of Zaporozhye region of Maruszczenka Mikhail Vasilovich; the local Ravenna District Court of the Kushner district of Natalija Vitaliyevna; the local Hmeljnick Mishtrion District Court of Hmeljna District of Sold Boris Grigorovich; the military local court of Cerkaske garrison Gračov Viktor Mihajlovich, Toropenka Mikola Vasilovich. No complaints against judges have been filed, there are fine features to them, appropriate experience. We looked at every candidate on the committee yesterday. Some of the judges are not on trial for the Supreme Council session; we only bring those judges supported by the Supreme Court, the Higher Qualifications Commission and yesterday's Legal Policy Committee. Please, Your Honor, support the draft of Decree 6491.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote. Thus, according to the law, no warnings to those candidates that we now have to elect as judges have been given. I have every reason to put to the vote the whole decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges. [[Registration number 6491]] Please vote. [[12:43:43]] For 309 Thank you, 309. I would also ask the newly elected judges to deal expeditiously with the question of how the Council votes. Please, Vasil Vasilovich. We still have Decree 9492.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u129	6492.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u130	I'm sorry, 6492.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u131	6492. It is recommended to select judges on an indefinite basis to The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Kravchuk Hennadija Anatoliyovich; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal, Bielecki Ludmila Mikolayevna; the local court of the Mikolai district of Koval Yuri Mikhailovich; The local court of the Herson district of Skobelkin, Sergey Vasilovich. Neither did any complaint, nor did any comments come from the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u132	Again, according to the law, we have every reason to vote on the adoption of the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the election of judges, registration number 6492, please vote. [[12:45:09]] For 313 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the full moon, the new addition of the judicial corps, and welcome to them on the eve of the new year of good health and inspiration in the work, and, more so, welcome to their supreme leader, the Head of the Court with the day of Basil, who will be able to observe tomorrow. Good for you. Yes. Let us go to the section “Other Readings”. The bill amending article 9, Ukraine’s Law on Natural Monopolies to Control Prices and Tariffs, registration number 4314, is being heeded. Report to the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Households, Property and Investment, Philip Philipovich Budzigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on June 30, last year, a bill was adopted to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, number 4314. Without violating the bill's procedure, I will say that the Committee on Economic Policy, People's Administration, Property and Investments has carefully considered one proposal that has come to the bill, the proposal of the People's Deputy of Carmazin and has not supported it, i.e. rejected it from the following considerations. This amendment is contrary to Article 10 of the Law on Prices and Prices, and this article states that the change in the level of government fixed, regulated prices and tariffs, to individual types of products, goods and services, is carried out in order and in time, I stress that they are determined by those bodies that approve or regulate prices in accordance with this law, so in respect of the author of the amendment, I would ask him to listen to the opinion of the Committee, which agrees with the Legal Authority and to vote in favour of the bill in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u134	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin does not insist on correction? No, it's not. Then we have every reason to vote as a whole as a law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on price and tariff control]] [[Registration number 4314]] Please vote. [[12:47:58]] For 213 Dear colleagues. There's no Carmagine? But it doesn't matter that he doesn't blame anyone for coming back. Yes, there is, there Who's in favour of going back to voting on this issue, please vote. [[12:48:29]] For 294 Thank you. We'll vote. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[Registration number 4314]] Please vote. [[12:49:00]] For 285 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being complied with. [[on the development and manufacture of weapons and military equipment]] [[Registration number 4054]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Majko Vitaly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u135	Vitaly Mike, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, non-fractional. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is based on the second reading of the Act amending certain laws on the development and manufacture of weapons, military equipment, and so forth. I can tell you that on the first reading, there were a lot of comments on the second reading. The remark was from Yuri Karmazin, grateful for the comments made by members of the Communist Party faction. And I want to tell you that the main purpose of the law is a law that will allow not only state enterprises, but also non-state enterprises. To date, more than 33 non - state enterprises are working to manufacture weapons. I can say that the main reason here is that Ukraine has never produced any final results. These are mostly completed shells, rifle weapons, for another weapon, and we're losing on the outside market. There's been a lot of talk here about the fact that yesterday in the speeches that military technology doesn't need advertising, it doesn't need a lot of money to buy everything. That's not true. Today, there is very much competition in the world. And what's interesting is that everything we've stopped releasing, look in Ukraine, you'll see that all those who have called us for disarmament are now trading what we've stopped trading for. And you can see that it's very convenient in general, trade, profitability, weapons production. This is our proposal for today's law allowing for the complex manufacture of the weapons that are purchased in general. Because the release of dust or individual weapons is not as effective as the finished product. So I propose to uphold this law and allow Ukraine to issue arms in a comprehensive manner, involving non-state organizations. Because this has already come to light, more than 33 companies are now releasing this. And that makes it possible to release weapons only by obtaining a license to issue them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u136	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. Yes, I see, but there is, as it were. [[John Gabrieluk, sit down, please, because I am.]] First repair of Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity. Your Honor, I have an offer for you to accept the first amendment, because by the name of the project. We're taking changes to three legal acts, and this has to be in the form of separate laws, and every one of them has to be amended. Otherwise, if there is a breach of legal regulations, there will be difficulties in getting information about something. This law also includes changes to other laws. In this case, the law should have an absurd title: the Act on Amendments to Business Laws, on licensing certain types of business, on State Defence Order. So we're creating this exact abracadabra right now. We already have over 300 laws to amend some laws, they're called. The students are laughing at us! People good, let's go back to normal sometime.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u138	I can answer one today. In fact, it may have to be done gradually, but I want to say that everyone is working under these laws today. No one's asking. And today, without a license, there's no way to stop work and get licenses for production today. That's why this law allows for some sort of order in the country. In fact, let's think about the name, let's consider these questions your next reading, but one request is not to keep this law, because today is a complete mess, it's impossible to establish any control over the output of the product at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u139	Yes, do you insist on voting? I'll put it to a vote. Yeah, I get it. Yuri Anatolyevich insists that we vote on his first amendment. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u140	Change the name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u141	I'm voting on this proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:06]] For-78 Not supported. Also, Yuri Anatoliyovich, what amendment of yours is not included, do you insist? That's where I see the 16th. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to say that I'm in favor of adopting this law, just in a normal way. Amendment 14, article 9, paragraph 2, of the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, reads: "Production and repair of non-military firearms and ammunition, cold weapons, pneumatic weapons of calibre over 4.5 millimetres and speed of flight over 100 metres per second, trade in non-military firearms and ammunition for them, cold weapons, pneumatic weapons of calibre over 4.5 millimeters and the speed of flying a bullet over 100 meters per second." It's much broader than what the Cabinet is now proposing, it's a specification that allows, on the one hand, to open its hands so that they don't say that there's no way to produce, and on the other hand it allows control. So I would ask the entire hall, both right and left, and completely red to vote, to take over my head and to think that that's what we should do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u143	There's only one answer to the fact that article 12 of the Licensing Act reads: "It is subject to licensing to the production of special products loaded with tear and irritable substances, individual protection, active defence." In fact, this is not the end of it. I won't deny those amendments. Let's take it, this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u144	Yes, there is a need to vote or agree with the committee. Is there no objection? Then the offer is accepted. Please, what's next? Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin. Again, I just want to improve the law, Amendment 16. Amendment: Article 9, paragraph 12, of the Licensing Act reads: “Production of special means loaded with substances of tear and irritation, individual protection and active defence”. The thing is, now it's coming from abroad, you know, and it's doing something like this. And this has to be written down, because this is actually what is the subject of the regulation of this law. I don't understand how it fell out of this law. I would ask the committee to agree, to include this paragraph 12 in this edition, and thus, it will only improve, to detail this law if we want the law to really be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u146	The answer is that it's actually just a repetition of the Licensing Act, where it's literally written down. If you repeat in this law, there's no denying to repeat it, but it's in the Licensing Act literally everything: the word, with the comas, with everything -- it's written what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u147	Yuri Anatolyovich agrees. Yeah, like you've all done your work? Nobody insists anymore? Then I put to the vote: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the development and manufacture of weapons and military technology. Registration number 4054, taking into account the Karmazin amendment that we agreed with you here. Vote. [[12:59:18]] For 233 The law is passed. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, registration number 5574. [[on the use of weapons]] Reported to the head of the National Security Committee and the Boron Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u148	The bill after the first reading did not have any proposals, but the proposals were made during the discussion at the session, and there were 2 questions: more clearly the position on the use of weapons in cases of ensuring the execution of Ukraine's armed forces' tasks to counter possible armed aggression against Ukraine; ensuring that air space and underwater space are not touched within Ukraine's territorial sea; and preventing terrorist acts in cases provided for by other laws. This position is set out in an editorial that was then adopted in a session that takes into account the comments of members of our committee and the national deputy of a colleague of Melniczuk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin was noted. Article 9, paragraph 6, defines authority. The definition of the order of use of weapons, of combat techniques, delete the position of granting these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and then in the session we considered this issue, and now I must say that this paragraph defines the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the government. And then these powers were placed on the government, and now only this position is being clarified, given that they were clarifying the mandate of the Armed Forces to use weapons in the event of a possible armed aggression against Ukraine. With this in mind, the committee proposes to adopt the law in the second reading and in general, but if Yuri Anatoliyevich insists, his amendment should normally be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u150	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! Dear Chairman! In view of the fact that this amendment was made when the criminal government of Viktor Yanuković existed in the country. I didn't want him to have that kind of authority. That's why I've been asking questions about excluding the position of giving Kabmin authority to determine the order of use of weapons. Because you understand, they sent troops to Iraq, then they translate responsibility to others. They did other things, then they transferred responsibility to others. They've now reached the point of giving 12 numbers on behalf of the Ministry of Justice to determine how many people died on December 26, November 21, October 31, each day. I'll talk about it later. So the criminal government was. Now the government is going to be a normal government, which is going to be represented by Yashchenk, and I'm taking this amendment down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u151	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But as a lawyer and as a member of the legislature, I would like us not to go out of what we do under a bad or bad or a good king to pass laws, but to adopt the right laws for the rule of law. That's what I'm saying. And second. Yuri Anatolyovich, look at the list of those who voted in favour of sending our troops to Iraq. And since this is a matter of concern, it has nothing to do with this issue that we are currently considering, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Supreme Council, for the second time, has taken a decision and requested the President to decide on the withdrawal of troops from Iraq, but the decree on this issue is not adopted. I'd like to have the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, who has been entrusted with the task of overseeing the implementation of this decree, in order for him to actually exercise real control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! I think the two decis are clear, the conflict is off. And the deputy, I think after the inauguration, will begin to implement this decision, and it will be implemented, we will hope. I'm voting on the second reading and, as a whole, on the amendment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act on the use of weapons. [[Registration number 5574]] Please vote. [[13:04:18]] For 277 The law is passed. There is a draft Law on the provision of social protection for orphans and children deprived of parental care, second reading, reports the Head of the Committee on Youth Policy and Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, Catherine Seminovna Samojlik. [[Registration number 2333]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u153	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, a draft of the Ukrainian Law, voted as the basis for his first reading and preparation for the second reading, received 132 amendments and additions, from the Ukrainian National Deputies and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, all carefully considered at the Committee's meeting and presented in a comparative table. The vast majority of them are accounted for, only 15 amendments out of 132 are rejected, and I would like us to go in an articleistic way, the truth is that there are no amendments to these amendments, but if there is a need, I'll argue why we rejected these amendments. If the hall agrees to vote in general for the Law, we will vote. These changes are largely rejected. That the issues raised in the amendments are already settled by other legislative acts and do not need to be re-established in this bill. I want to tell you that, like today's and yesterday's bill, it's aimed exclusively at social protection for children, especially orphans. We guarantee them here, this law, and the housing, and the first job, and so on. And so, Adam Ivanovich, if the hall agrees not to go on offer in the absence of amendment authors, let us put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u154	Yes. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments that they have tabled, and they have not considered, insists on their consideration? None. Then I am voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, please vote. [[13:07:12]] For 270. The law is passed. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance". [[Bill 5442 registration number]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the committee’s subcommittee on pensioners, veterans and invalids, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to remind my colleagues in two words of what the problem is. This bill is originally written by our colleague Sklar with you, proposes to improve the pension calculation system when people earn much more and there is a ceiling for the Pension Fund. The bill was generally approved on first reading. Three proposals were made during the finalization. The Working Group, the Committee has worked and they have all been approved. Thus far, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities has proposed the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general because it has a positive bearing on the regulation of the high-income pensioners and, accordingly, which should be deducted from those earnings. All right, no policy, a normal constructive business approach was initiated by our colleague, the author of the bill, and the committee agrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are taken into account. No, no, now for the reasons of vote, please, the Sclara microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the drafting of the bill could, in principle, be accepted, but not the norm for its introduction. The fact is that we are still without a reason delaying the introduction of the rule today and virtually nullifying this social benefit today. In fact, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees today that this benefit has already been established, so it should not be postponed for another year as soon as it is introduced. I therefore request that I put to the vote, as of the date of publication of this rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u158	Vasil Ivanovich, explain, and then I will answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, when we discussed this subject on the Committee, we came to the conclusion that it would be much sooner and faster. Regrettably, the dynamics that the legislative process is proposing today imply a better option - the introduction of the first January. We don't want to bump into the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, and I am addressing my colleague, the Glassman. The thing is, your amendment isn't here. I mean, I should have brought it that way, that's the first. But even if it had been introduced, according to the legislation and the budget code, including everything that has anything to do with the budget, it would have to be introduced, as it were, as it was written here. And here Vasily Ivanovich is right. If we accept what we will allow from January 1st this year, the President will have absolutely every reason to veto this law. Please, Sklar. Then it's Cherniak. Vasil Ivanovich, don't go far.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u161	I insist. The fact is that the bill was based on this very rule, which had been introduced since the first of January 2005. I would therefore like to put the matter to a vote. From the day of the publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u162	I'll explain it to the People's Chamber. You are no longer the author of the bill. The drafter of the bill is already the Supreme Council. On the first reading, you could insist. In the second, you also had the right to insist if your proposal was written in a comparative table. You had to get to know the comparative table and make a suggestion that Sklar suggested that this law should be put into effect at the time of publication. You don't have that offer, so I can't vote it. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u163	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it must be admitted that the Supreme Council is delaying the adoption of laws that regulate the issue of both pension and medical insurance and everything else. This very important policy of reforming the social sphere of the Supreme Council is delaying. And here I agree with Deputy Sklar. But it would be better, of course, to enter from January 1st this year. And that's what we wanted to do. But we're too late. And that's our problem and our fault. We need to get out of this and adopt a bill, it's a very important step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, on the basis of Karmazin's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention, Adam Ivanovich, to such a detail. Correction. We, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the first reading. [[Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich!]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading adopted as a concept, you know, the first reading accepts where there was article two -- this law takes effect from the day it was published. You see, right? On the second page, the second article was published. Then Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga gives her amendment, also amendment number two, and writes that this law takes effect from January 1, 2006. Now we must vote in favour of the amendment of Nadra, for the Supreme Council has made its decision. It has been written since the day it was published. Here's the thing. Do you understand, Adam Ivanovich? So Sklar is right, we made that decision, and we didn't have to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u166	Yeah, okay. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have passed here three times a law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social protection, amending the Law on Victims of Persecution, the author of which was your current rapporteur's obedient servant. We passed a good law three times, but because it ran into a conflict with the budget code, we had three vetoes of the President. Last week we finally got the President's signature under the law I was talking about. If we go under this law with you now to the wish that was in the basic proposal of the drafter of the bill, we will have a veto with you. I have one question: do we want to make a commitment to the law? Let us return to the law from the day of adoption, if we want to change and make good, normal, law-abiding pensions, let us do what the Budget Code requires from 1 January 2006. Not because someone doesn't want to. If he doesn't want to, I understand he insists on some other approach. Under the current budget code. Or we get the veto, and that's the veto then we'll get over it, and that law will go through the cabinets again. Thank you. I think we should vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u168	Yes, Vasil Ivanovich spoke flamingly, but we will follow the Rules. And that's why I'm going to put an amendment to the vote. Because, really, there's the right Carmazin. On our first reading, we accepted one. You're suggesting a change. If the author disagrees. That's why we're going to have to vote on the bill number two of Nadra's national deputies on the introduction of the law, this law in force on 1 January 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u169	Vote. We're gonna bury the law, believe me. My dears, then you'll find out that you've made a mistake. [[13:15:49]] For 131 Yes, Vasil Ivanovich, you've achieved what you wanted, your amendment only got 131 votes and it didn't pass. Thus, it remains in the writings of the national deputy Sklar. So given that the number two issue has not been passed, but the previous one remains, I am voting on the second reading, and in general as the law amending the Ukrainian Law on mandatory State Pension Insurance. Please vote. [[13:16:42]] For 303 The law was passed, but once again, without Draga's amendment number two, and in the previous edition, that he would take effect if signed, from the time of publication. There's a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, registration number 3297, second reading. Reports the head of the committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Anastasiav Valentin Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u170	Anastasiav, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Your attention is drawn to the comparative table for the second reading of Bills No. 2407-2, 3297, adopted by the Supreme Council on 10 September 2004. During the preparation for the second reading, eight proposals were made by the people's deputies. Three of them, by law 2407-2 and five, by 3297. Both laws deal with amendments to the same law: “On the status of veterans of war, guarantees of their social protection”. All eight amendments were considered and taken into account by the Committee, all to one. The Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council's Office of the Comparative Table is unsaid and it is recommended that the bill be adopted as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u171	Thank you, Valentin Alexiovich. Everything is taken into account, that is, no one can insist from the national MPs unless the authors of the previous text, as it were, are able to say. Doesn't anyone mind? It doesn't, does it? Then I put to the vote: the adoption of the second reading and generally as a law: the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the guarantee of their social protection. Please vote. Vote, I'll explain later. [[13:19:25]] For 228 Thus, a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and guaranteeing their social protection was adopted as a law. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 32, Ukraine - 26, Communist - 57, National Agrarian Party - 23, Social Democrats - 8, Ukraine - 12, Socialist Party - 20, Timoshenko -6, Labour Ukraine - 7, Union - 9, Democratic Initiatives - 2, Center - 4, Non-faction - 22. [[United]] Yes, with the second reading we finished. We should now listen to draft laws on Ukraine's sovereign debt. Registration number 1229 and 1229-1. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Master Vladimir Yakovič. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u172	Vladimir Masterskin, electoral district No. 14, non-factional. Dear National Deputies! The problem of sovereign debt is currently not settled or settled in some way is not entirely perfect. Status quo problem. Article 92 of the Constitution specifies that all problems related to the State’s creation and service of Ukraine’s sovereign debt, both external and internal, should be governed by essentially Ukrainian legislation. What do we have today? We have a law on state. on Ukraine’s domestic government debt, which was accepted in 1992. Unfortunately, in each budget, in each draft budget law, we stop the law in the Final Positions and write a separate article on the settlement of the problem of government debt, i.e. 2-3-4 articles there, and it is considered that the problem of government debt is settled through the law on the budget. Accordingly, we realize that this is not a perfect settlement and that it is not a solution to the problem. What's proposed. At this point, we've issued the State Debt Act 1229-1 by a group of authors, and we have a favorable response to this bill by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund. Including the permanent Court of Auditors, and it also responds with approval on this bill, constantly tells us that the State Debt Act should be adopted and the whole issue of State Debt Relations should be regulated by the State Debt Act. Including the National Bank of Ukraine, the same position was expressed and supported by the bill. I would like to remind you here, honourable deputies, the price of this question. If the agricultural fraction, with all due respect for its position in support of the village, and where less than 10 percent of the expenditure part of the budget, is part of the budget that goes to the government debt of Ukraine every year, we have more than 20 percent of the expenditure part of the budget. So we only have in 2003 -- that was 13.8 billion -- in 2004 -- about 15 billion dollars, we're spending the budget on servicing and maintaining government debt. And so to say that this law isn't happening at all, it would be very difficult at all. I'd like to remind you once again what the general ideology of this bill is. Indeed, there are two bills in the Supreme Council today concerning the State Debt Act: Law 1229, not marked 1 and 1229-1. There has been a problem that the basic law has been in the Supreme Council since 2002, the author of the Hubsky, Terjehohin bill and other authors. We wrote our law, and it is also in the Supreme Council for over a year and a half. I don't know why, but this bill isn't even considered in the first reading by the Supreme Council, and it's no longer considered by the Committee on Finance and the Banking System as a professional committee. So I think that today this question has arisen, as they say, at the time and in view of the fact that the Committee on Finance today has asked this question to be moved to the next week, I would ask Adam Ivanovich to make a separate commission of the Supreme Council to the Committee on Finance and the Banking System, so that they will necessarily consider this Law as an urgent matter and we will consider it in the next week in the first reading. The only thing that I would like to see here is that there is some negative practice with this Law, and once again, I say that it has been in the Supreme Council for more than two years, and even the Committee has not considered it. And there is an urgent need for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u173	Thank you. Yes, please, the microphone of Teryochin. I repeat, until we consider the matter, for now, wait, please sit down, Basil, Terjehochin, Terjehohin, Terjehochin, Terjehohin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed, in general, that we are not paying any attention to you today, that we are not having any discussions in connection with the fact that the Law is not ready, that the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Banking, which is the Chief Agent of this Law, has not passed more than in many cases contradicted the general logic of government debt management. And it can't even be accepted in the first reading, so there's this request, by the way, Adam Ivanovich, a big request: don't put in any more bills that haven't been processed by the profile committee. There's a request to move it to the fourth of the next week, we're going to try to do something like this in common, and we're going to put the first and the second bills together, so that we can accept it in the first reading, and today we're going to finish the discussion and move on to other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u175	Thank you. All right, please let go of my hands. I'll say two words. If you agree with me, that's the way it will be, if you don't, then we'll do it differently. Sergey Anatoliyovich’s point is that, if not considered on the committee, there is no need to ask the question. But there is a rule in the Rules, which says that if, for a period of time, a professional committee has not made its decision on a particular legislative act, they are brought to the consideration of the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council is making a decision. So we didn't break anything, because that's two years. But let's listen to the idea that the profile committee, and the drafter of the bill that we really need, have agreed that they're going to propose it to us on Thursday. Do we have a deal? Well, there's an assignment, if there isn't, we'll look at it anyway, because I've already warned you. If the committee doesn't consider it, we'll still have the right to consider it. Thank you. Bill 2305. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. Please, Kaputin from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u176	Like a committee. Cabbage, please, microphone. Kaputina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u177	Adam Ivanovich, I think it's worth agreeing with the author's position, moving to the fourth hour, because there's a refinement of the second paragraph, which is being deleted from this bill, of this bill. So I would like to take the fourth hour of listening to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u178	Well, let's go fourth, then Sergey Anatolyovich at 4th and there'll be a discussion, okay? Then let's listen after the break. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Work. [[about lost earnings]] [[Bill number 3415]] From the committee head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vernigor Leonid Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u179	Vernigor, Socialist faction, head of the Poltava District Council of Trades. History of this matter The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 34 of the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production, which resulted in the loss of employment by the Ukrainian National MP Landik. The bill proposes to pay the employee the amount of income lost without taking into account the amount of disability pensions established in connection with the same accident and regardless of the other types of pensions received by the victims. Earnings there, income or scholarships. Paragraph 2 of this article, 34, to which changes are proposed, provides that when the victim is assigned a disability pension at the same time as a monthly insurance benefit in connection with the same accident, the amount should not exceed the average monthly income that the victim had before the injury. The previously determined amount of monthly insurance and disability pension is not subject to reduction. If this law is applied in a positive way, the legislative initiative aims at restoring the right of victims from accidents to compensate for their lost earnings and greatly improves the material condition of those who receive insurance due to accidents in production and occupational diseases that have led to a loss of employment. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council is proposing to take the basis of this bill. The Cabinet fully supports the legislative proposal. The Committee on Social Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u180	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich, please sit down. Let's talk. Hinzburg, please. I can't see. Yavorovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich. Microphone, please, Yavorowski. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u181	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, radio listeners. We support this bill absolutely. He lies in a constitutional bed because he does not make things worse but improves it. We live in a country where we probably don't know where else, unless there are such old pre - Flood and primitive technologies in the post - Soviet space in Asian countries, we know very well what happens on Ukrainian mines, how often accidents occur in our businesses, not just in large and small. That's why I think this Landik bill needs to be supported. We'll vote for him. I think it's a technical bill that improves the situation of people who have suffered. And, Adam Ivanovich, I raised my hand, I still have half a minute, I mean. I think it's insane, and I'd like it to be recorded. If for two years the bill that regulates our possible loans abroad lies motionless, even if it has not been considered by the committee, it is insane, because it is in these two years that the government of Yanukovic has borrowed so much again. And we're going to have to pay our taxpayers' pockets. Because of this, it is obvious that we simply need to make comments to the people and to the Apparatus who are responsible for this. This bill had to be considered so that it wouldn't just stay that way, you know, like a little mistake there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u182	You're absolutely right, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, but government debt is not just about external borrowing. There are no fewer, if not more, and internal, including labour savings of 132 billion citizens. So it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... We agreed that on Thursday we would be sure to put it on. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u183	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I've been very familiar with this bill, and I don't share the bravado here with the various comments that have been made today in support of this bill. And I'll tell you why. And now you will understand, and all Ukrainian citizens will understand why I will not vote for this bill. Where will the money go? Costs should be sought out by the Social Insurance Fund for accidents, which means that insurance tariffs should be increased, i.e. more pressure on the Insured Persons Fund. IT MEANS that we are going to kill those enterprises that are just rising. And we're going to kill them by as little as 15 percent. I'm about to prove why. If that fits the concept that we want to raise our own production, I have to be in doubt. What about international legislation? The Convention 121 determines that periodic payments in the event of a loss of full ability to earn, this is an ILO convention, along with any family assistance, can't be less than 60 percent of the earnings. So we now have standards that are better than international standards. Now this rule predicts, Landik's proposal that not only will the person receive the salary that the insured person received before the insurance accident, or even on a larger scale, because insurance payments are not taxed on the income tax of the citizens. So every state, every enterprise is going to lose 15 percent. This 15 percent is now due to raise insurance premiums. So world experience shows that even a rich country like Germany makes 85 percent of the wage limit, i.e. it guarantees wage savings, because it's not taxed, it's pure. And we're doing the same thing, in large numbers. So in caring for the interests of just most businesses, I will be against it. For one thing, I'd like to tell you what the government is doing in this direction right now. The phonegram is given to all RIZAGs in January 12th: "Set the number of persons with disabilities on these dates for the election dates - 26/12, 21.11, 31.10. Information, reports, and so forth is available to determine the cause of the death of citizens and electoral events in Ukraine. Noting the source of such data and other comprehensive information, the name, the name, the father, the diagnosis, and so forth. This is how the government prepares.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u184	Please, I give the Deputy Minister my word. Please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable National Deputies! I cannot agree with the reporter who said that the Cabinet of Ministers fully supports this bill. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support this bill. And in a letter dated 19 June 2003, under the signature of Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco, he announced that he was sending the results of the review to the central executive bodies of the bill, which he fully supported. It means that the outcome of the discussion is supported. As a result of the discussion in Minust, Minfin, and Minpraci, this bill is being rejected and proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u185	Hinzburg now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I would like to focus on three issues of my speech when I consider the Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Employment". First. The very essence of this law to our electorate today gives our citizens some hope that they will, for some reason, be compensated for these losses, if that's what they call it, and they'll probably be a little satisfied. But this is the reason: What will increase the pay funds that will be increased in connection with the adoption of this law, either on the basis of deductions from enterprises or on the basis of a fund that has already been accumulated? Because its introduction dates back to January 1, 2004, which is also unacceptable. But I would like to point out that there is still such a reason that today, when looking at the accidents that occur in production, there is such a problem that people who are responsible for this enterprise today are not paying attention to the protection of their work. And the protection of work, which was in the first place and man was protected from accidents, was a great responsibility, today left alone from. One to one with this problem. And I would like, in considering this law, to say that it makes sense to live today if these shortcomings are brought out of the law. And it must be stressed that our business leaders should not allow these occupational diseases, accidents, but rather spend money on prevention rather than on compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u187	Yes, please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich. Vladimir Kirilovich, will you be speaking? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u188	Dear friends! In a state of hard thinking, I went up to this rostrum. The question is not as simple as it may seem. I understand the intentions, the motives, and the puffos of the drafters, and I have one hand to vote, and the other hand holds back the hand that stretches. There's a problem. I'd say there's a dilemma. How can you do that? Are these payments saved at 100 percent of the average wage, or is it plus what is proposed here? I'd like to compare it to an international experience. For example, the International Labour Organization Convention offers at least 60 percent. But their wages are high, their living standards are high, and 60 percent is solid. We've got low wages. And that's why 100 percent would add anything else. So we're now facing a dilemma, whether we leave 100 percent and tie it to the average wage, and it's going to be a real help, or trying to hang something else and then not do it. I'm afraid of what? I'm afraid we can declare these intentions and not financially secure them. And this is going to be worse than saving 100 percent of the average wage. Thank you very much. And you can draw your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. One minute, Leonid Mikhailovich. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u190	Dear Volodymyr Kirilovich! I really feel for you that you have one hand in favor and one in favour. Let's just get into the position of our people with disabilities. Look at the amount they're paying for these low-income disability pensions. Look at the amount that the Prime Minister gives them each time: the first group is 70 bracelets, the second group is 40 and so on. And now I'll tell you two. That the expert board of this bill, and we're on the committee, have calculated, and if we didn't take 200 million from the social insurance fund in the past and the last year to patch up public holes, we'd have enough to pay off two middle-aged people, disabled people who lost their job. They have no other option than to count on our mercy. And that's why we can adopt a law today that would give them an average existence at least. That's the first one. And the second. I, Vladimir Ivanovich Tutkin, am you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u191	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u192	The Cabinet of Ministers, which fully supports the bill, and the Expert Office writes: we are surprised by the disagreement between the Ministry of Labour and the Cabinet of Ministers. You work there together. So I'm asking you to accept the bill as a basis, and if anyone has one or more of these hands, Vladimir Kirilovich, let it go, then we'll work on it, and then we'll take a real one for the people who have lost their right to work, the opportunity to work, the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u193	Yes. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, please prepare for the vote, I put to the vote, I put to the vote, the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases, which caused the loss of work for lost earnings, registration number 3415, please vote. [[13:45:28]] For 216 As we can see, respectable colleagues, neither the former nor the future government, do not want this Law very much. So, which one of you is going back to the vote? Please vote, vote. [[13:45:58]] For 233 We're back. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Disease, which has caused the loss of employment in respect of lost earnings, registration number 3415, please vote. [[1:46:42]] For 258. Thank you. I'll take that as a base. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State General Compulsory Social Insurance is being considered in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[about the fund]] [[Registration number 5384]] From the Committee of Vernigor Leonid Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u194	Honorary Society, this bill to amend and supplement the Act "On mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial" submitted by our committee, in particular the head of the Hara Committee. The bill defines a mechanism for managing a social insurance fund with temporary loss of work in accordance with the requirements of the master code of Ukraine. I would like to inform you that all of our three foundations, which are and operate according to the framework of legislation on compulsory social security, have one defined structure. And it's just this fund that I'm reporting on that has another intermediate facility, well, the advisory board or the district department of the fund management, which duplicates all the issues that are raised or resolved in Kiev at the Social Insurance Fund. So we just needed to eliminate one of these chains as unnecessary. But. Everything would be fine as if Comrade Hara hadn't imposed two more standards here that are totally out of our fund, that is, creating commercial structures under the fund, and saving the possibility of sanatorium treatment by adopting a sanatorium and smoking fund. We didn't have it, and we don't have it. So I ask, as recommended by the committee, both our subcommittee, and the expert board, to adopt only the first position of this bill in the first reading. And then we'll make other suggestions, please. I've got it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u195	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Hinzburg. Get ready for Carmazine. Turn on the microphone, please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u196	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. I would like to agree with the reporter's statement that we need to support proposals that could simplify this chain. But you can't agree with the proposals to give the fund the right to have a sanatorium balance. This does not apply to the competence of a fund that should deal solely with the social insurance of citizens. For example, in case of temporary loss of employment, as I mentioned earlier, and in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, the birth of a child, and the need to care for it in the event of death. It should be noted that the strengthening of the project in its paragraph 7.11/1, paragraph 7.11 of article 7.11 of the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation. Taking into account the dynamics of the changes in numbers and the provisions of the law noted, it is not appropriate to apply such a detailed reference to the standard. So I believe that this law can only be supported in one part of his proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u197	Please, Carmazin, there's also a microphone from the place. Behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u198	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Honourable National Deputies, Fund Administrations, Executive Directors of the Fund, and in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas of Kiev and Sevastopol, they also rule the respective branches of the Fund. Of course, this structure of the fund’s management has proved ineffective over the years. In this regard, the first part of the proposal is quite clear. I agree with the committee reported by the distinguished MP of Vernigor. At the same time, part of the bill, because we accept conceptually, first reading is the concept, then in article 28, there's a third point: having a sanatorium on the balance sheet. Then it goes to 2-7 as 4-9 and so on. Here I would like to say that I do not agree with this proposal in the same way that I did not agree with it and the committee because it does not refer to the competence of a fund that should deal solely with the social insurance of citizens in case of temporary loss of employment in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, the birth of a child and the need for care in the event of death. And so I would ask you, Sir Adam Ivanovich, to put to the vote immediately: for the acceptance of the first reading without the third part of the first article, which is now proposed. And I would like you, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, to give it anyway, because this is the question that I had in my previous conclusion about the overcoming of power by the government, the Ministry of Justice, who have given instructions and are actually taking part in the preparation of the court to prevent the People's President Yushchenko from being given the appropriate authority to direct the government and the Attorney-General's Office to carry out a review of the reasons why such orders are now being given by the government, which is aimed at supporting one candidate, Viktor Yanukovich. I'd like to do that, Adam Ivanovich. And here I'm going to put to the vote in the context I asked for, because otherwise I won't have the right to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u199	Solomonine, please. He's followed by a nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u200	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the previous speakers have absolutely defined what I have come up with by studying this bill. So I'm going to say very narrowly. I agree that we need to exclude part one of the third paragraph of Article 28 from the fact that the Fund can balance socio-cultural institutions. Why is all of this being done? It seems that somewhere along the way, someone has prepared a certain placenta for a certain activity. We should not be held hostage to any particular interests with you. If a respected colleague of ours, the national MP who proposed this innovation, were convincingly to prove all of this here, we might be able to get something new to know, perhaps even agree. Now, in this situation, we cannot accept such an offer. Therefore, honourable Adam Ivanovich, I propose that we accept this bill on the basis of the first reading, except for part one of article 28, paragraph 3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m0.u201	Yes, Nigger. Where's Vladimir Kirilovich? Yes, then everyone who wanted to participate in the discussion could do so. Let's be clear, but we have here, my fellow dignitaries, yet there is a decree of the People's Deputies of Pinzenic that this bill is unacceptable. So first, I'm going to put to the vote a decree of the People's Deputies of Pinzenic on the inadmissibility of Bill 5384. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:56:18]] For-69 It's a non-adopted decision. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[about the fund]] Registration number 5384. I'd like to make a statement. Without being removed, we vote for the time being. [[13:57:01]] For-90 Dear colleagues, you know, I have to put it first if it's unacceptable. Set. If there's a law, I'll take it as it is. And then we'll vote on the proposals. Not accepted. I now put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine "On mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial" with the deletion of the third part of the first part of article 28. [[about the fund]] What was highlighted by the profile committee and national deputies Karmazin and Solomatin. Please. I repeat: what was highlighted was the committee's report and then confirmed by the people's deputies. Please vote. [[13:58:11]] For 246 Adopted with the deletion of the article discussed in the report of the committee of profile and the national deputies Carmazin and Solomonin. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. An extension, or the start of the evening, as always, at 4:00 p.m. Have a good meal.
