ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:01:51]] There were 410 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. As we agreed with you, the first question we will now listen to is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the zero rate for PEK enterprises]] Registration number 2305. Please, the author of the Litvin Vadim Valentinovich bill. Get ready for Cappuccino.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u2	The bill was drafted to address the urgent problems of VAT taxation, which are very important for companies in the oil and gas complex. There are two problems here. The first problem is the legal exemption from VAT, the import of natural gas into Ukraine's customs territory, according to external economic contracts. The second problem is the legislative establishment of a zero VAT rate for a transaction for the sale of imported natural gas imported under external economic contracts for the implementation of Ukraine's international contracts. This standard is very important for the industry, because since the establishment of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, considerable tax burden has prevented the company from paying all taxes properly and ensuring proper financing of production programs. The cancellation in 2000-2002 of a zero tax on the added value of a natural gas transaction imported into Ukraine led to an increase in NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's tax surplus, an increase in the deficit of capital investment and a deterioration in accounts with Turkmenistan for imported natural gas. In 2003 alone, the tax situation improved. First of all, by restoring the zero rate for transactions in the sale of imported natural gas. In 2003, the company was able to pay the tax liabilities fully in 2004, to implement international agreements on natural gas and oil transit and to settle with Turkmenistan at the same time. An analysis of the implementation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's tax liability under the zero VAT rate on the sale of imported natural gas shows its positive impact on the budgetary situation. In 2003, the company’s current budget calculations were completed in full. Payments for payments for 2002 amount to about 6 billion dollars, including an added tax of over 1.5 billion dollars. In 2004, the company also ran full budget calculations. According to operational data at 01.0105, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is listed in the State Budget for about 5.5 billion dollars or 102.7 per cent, including 808 million VAT dollars. Setting a zero VAT rate for a sale transaction of imported natural gas did not result in a reduction in the income portion of the budget and would now have no impact on the budget. It will not lead to a reduction in the income of the budget and budget losses, and will allow the issue of VAT taxation of imports and implementation of imported natural gas to be definitively resolved within a few years by introducing relevant articles into the State Budget Act. This will enable the company to deliver uninterrupted natural gas supplies to the sectors of the national economy and population. maintain a proper level of operation of the gas transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, from the profile committee, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The author of the bill has already stopped at the core of the law. I'd like to pay attention to a few things that are very important when we make decisions when we vote for these things. First, I want to point out that this Law consists of two points, first, this exemption from VAT on natural gas imports into the customs territory of Ukraine and second, this is a legislative provision for the establishment of a zero VAT rate for the operation of natural, imported natural gas. I would like to point out that these two points have actually been decided over a number of years in a row, 2002, 2003, 2004 in the relevant laws on the state budget of Ukraine in these years. Regrettably, in 2005, these norms, at least the second one, were not included in the state budget, which could lead to serious complications and serious negative consequences and problems. The main problem that might arise as a result of the failure to resolve this issue is the actual raising of tariffs on utilities, which, after all, will have a serious impact on the standard of living of the population, so we think that these issues need to be addressed immediately. And to do so in a legislative way, so that it will not be necessary to do so in the future, to submit these paragraphs every time to the State Budget Act. In the Committee’s consideration, it was decided that the Law, which should remove the second paragraph of the Law, when it was under consideration, was the Law, which was a provision for the establishment of a zero rate for transport-related operations, the movement of natural gas, oil and oil shipments through Ukraine’s territories and ports. So I want to emphasize that. What's left is the exemption from VAT, import and zero VAT on a transaction for the sale of imported natural gas. I ask the honourable national deputies to support this bill, to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u5	Thank you, please, I see two for, two against. Terjehochin, get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this bill is being passed in the fifth, and the fifth iteration is going to replace it. Twice he was discussed in the Supreme Council, and twice the Supreme Council rejected the bill. Today, in the third paragraph of article 9, of the State Budget, there is a release from natural gas imports in Ukraine, not zero, I repeat, but release. This is the only rule since the Russian Federation canceled the VAT with an expert. So the government budget for Ukraine is down by $820 million or more than 4.2 billion. What is now proposed by this lobbyist, openly lobbyist bill? Don't cut utility charges, don't cut supplies to end-users like jacks or JSCs, or just people. No, it's not. And the proposal is to increase NAC Naftogaz's revenue, which is formally a state company, but has long privatized management, has long known how to resell non-taxable gas, and how to leave Ukraine's state budget without income. If we accept this bill, then let's say goodbye to more than, I repeat, 4 billion dollars of the income of the State budget of Ukraine if we replace it from that balance sheet of the State budget that we adopted recently. And the last. I was very interested in the situation at large when the Supreme Council Committee did not make a positive decision at its meeting to uphold this law, but it did make a legal decision by the Supreme Council, but in the Supreme Council there was a completely different decision to support it in the first reading. When the Committee of the Supreme Council identifies the co-reporter of the national deputy Teryochin, another co-reporter emerges in the final moment. And when, from the very morning to the factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are parliamentarians who want the only thing that this bill, which will once again leave the State without four billion with a hook of bracelets this year, is adopted, although in the first reading. So I don't think we have the moral right to vote for such a bill. That's the first one. And secondly, let's make sure that this lobbyist thing doesn't go as we're told. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u7	Thank you. It is very good that you have such pluralism on the committee, even though there is a need for order, no doubt. Please, Carmazine. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u8	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly considered in this room the question of how shadow money is generated in Ukraine, how the pressure on the population of Ukraine is increasing. We're on a number of occasions, and somehow now no one's worried about the profile committees, like this NAC Naftogaz signed agreements with Turkmenistan, where immediately for a third of the gas prices raised. What does this mean for each of us? What does this mean for the Ukrainian industry? This means serious consequences, which means that after a while there will be a substantial increase in prices for absolutely everything in this state. And now we're being asked to exempt from tax, from value added tax, from natural gas imports into the customs territory of Ukraine. It seems that it is in line with external economic contracts made for the implementation of international agreements. So what? What do these treaties say that taxes should be exempt? No, it's not written. I firmly agree with Sergey Teryochin's view that this bill is totally lobbyist. First. Secondly, I'm addressing the head of Macuk's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Dear Mr. Matsuk, what are your experts doing? They do not see the lobbyist bill; they do not note that it is the fifth bill on the subject. This is the deception of Ukrainian national MPs. Finally, where did the Committee on Budget Affairs conclude? There is no such conclusion. I would like to remind you that, according to the budget code, each bill should be submitted to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues to conduct an expert study on its impact on the income or expenditure of the budget, as well as the implementation of the State Budget Act in the current budget period. [[parts of first article 27]] It's not there, it's not there. That document, which is distributed, is modestly written that the Committee on Finance proposes that it be accepted in the first reading. Thus, we also do not have in line with part two of article 27 of the budget code and the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, where we would be given the value of the impact on the income part, the conclusions on relevance, the proposal on the term of validity of the law and so on. And this is not given to us, MPs. Obviously, it just doesn't exist. I strongly oppose the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u9	Yes, Black Vladimir Kirilovich. I can't see. Then please, Rudzkowski. Rudkovsky Mikola, I just got here. Please come to the rostrum. And after him, Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, indeed. The situation that has now arisen in the oil and gas complex needs a solution. There's an order to be made. And there was an attempt a few years ago to put order in order by entering a zero bet. Why? Because, you remember, there were middle-sized firms that paid the value added tax, and so the budget got a lot of damage due to the fact that several firms on the chain were asking for a refund on the value added tax. And we've come to the conclusion that we're going to import gas between government contracts, transfer it to industry, so that there's no VAT compensation, and there's no increase in debt. But the situation is now in the state, as it were, it has come to order, and we see that there is order and a tax return on added value. We have a situation where NAC Naftogaz Ukraine started collecting, in fact, 90 percent of payments. In this situation, I think the law that is proposed needs to be worked out, not to put this issue to a vote today, but to propose such a mechanism to allow the budget to be filled on the one hand, and on the other hand, not to tax the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". I think the release at import is a better form than the zero rate. Why, as it were, is the zero bet harmful? Because once we enter a zero rate, anything that buys NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, the budget has to compensate for the added value tax. It seems to me that for NAC Naftogaz Ukraine from the budget to compensate for all the production that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine buys, the value added tax is already too much. And that's why I'm proposing not to vote today, but let the authors work together so that the mechanism, as it were, has been put in place, but there has been no direct subsidization of the state budget company. This law needs to be removed from consideration today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u11	National MP Nadraga Vasil Ivanovich, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! The issue that we are considering today must be clearly understood as to what we want to achieve with a solution to a particular issue. We are working for one thing: we are not going to reimburse VAT today, but, more precisely, we are going to force VAT to be paid, and then we still have to pay it back from the State budget. I have a question: do we have a lot of compensation in Gosbuyt for the same VAT? You can argue about anything, but in this case we can come with you that gas users, and, in fact, consumers of heat in the face of the population, the social sphere, the housing sector, they'll just start to lack gas or they'll start to supply it at a higher price because the problem of reparation is going to remain. Or even worse, we will break the current situation, which will eventually lead to gas being forced to supply gas when prices rise. Therefore, today's situation, which is being preserved, I understand that this is not the best solution. And I fully agree that if someone is exempt from VAT today, it is not a systemic solution, but there is a systemic solution when we talk about that gas should be given to consumers, especially the social, domestic consumers, they should get it sufficiently stable. If that's not the case, we're going to blow up the fragile balance that we have today in terms of gas supply, and heat, water, and everything that consumers need to do, both the population and the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u13	Question completed. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. [[on the zero rate for PEK enterprises]] Registration number 2305. Please vote. [[16:20:27]] For-84 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 23, Communists - 3, "Regions of Ukraine", National Agrarian Party, Social Democrats - Zeros, "One Ukraine" - 15, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 1, "Trud Ukraine", NDP - 12, "Soyuz" - 15, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "Centre" - 1, "Postfaction" - 14. Then there is an offer to send this bill for further work. Please vote. Vote. [[16:21:16]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Until the next session. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. [[on the technology park "Machining technology"]] Bill number 5730. The bill is drafted by the national MP, Gurov Vadim Mikolajovic. Please. Correspondent Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill proposes to make changes to the list of technology parks, namely to supplement the new technology park “Machining technology” to which a special regime of investment and innovation activities is extended, in accordance with the Ukrainian law “On a special regime for investment and innovation in technology parks”. [[City of Dnipropetrovsk]] Therefore, we need to consider this matter very carefully and make a balanced decision that will affect the development of the entire region. The need to create a technology park in Dnipropetrov, Dnipropetrovsk, which is based on the economic situation in the Dnipropetrovsk region. The region is one of the economically developed regions. At the same time, a negative phenomenon can be considered to be the formation of a contribution to the national economy through raw resources and processed products in the background of relatively small machine-building, high-tech manufacturing, and slowdown in the light, food and manufacturing industries. The area is characterized by inter-branch and intra-branch imbalances. In terms of energy and capital-intensive mining and metallurgy complexes, electricity, coal, chemical industry, I emphasize, 82 percent of the production volume. While the contribution of quick - return and capital - market industries: machine building, metal processing, light and food industries, is only 14 percent or 5.4 times less. At the same time, it should be noted that the area has a great scientific and technological potential that can have a significant impact on the creation of a series of high-tech new technologies. The second argument for the purpose of creating a technological park of machine-building technology is the region's economic crisis caused by the large-scale wearout of the core funds, unbalanced, and again, I emphasize the structure of the production forces. As a result, taking care of the fate of the region in the future, it is necessary to give priority to the design and implementation of scientific developments by creating new machines, appliances, equipment for the implementation of high-efficiency broadband technologies, which will help create conditions for the Dnipropetrov region to enter external markets with competitive production. So please support the bill and accept it as a basis. Industrial Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, from the Committee on Science and Education, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Yukhnovski Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u16	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The proposal is to create a new technology park in machine technology in Dnipropetrovsk. The technology park is based on the Institute of Geotechnical Mechanics of the Dnipropetroval Aggregate Plant, the Crevice turbine Plant Constar and other factories. Its initiators are Bulat, the academic secretary of the Department of Mechanical Engineering of the National Academy of Sciences, the one who last worked on the problem of mine methane mining. The committee has considered this issue twice and believes that a technology park should be established. I want to make a note that the creation of technology parks creates a mixed opinion among the members of the Supreme Council. Because the technology park frees the project from taxation, from value added tax, and from income tax, which is a special account, and is used for innovative policy in those companies that offer the project. This is fundamentally different from the tax benefits. which are operating for special economic zones or for specific sectors and should therefore be clearly distinguished from the creation of special economic zones. I'm going to say that there are now 40 tech parks in Russia, there are 400 tech parks in China, there are only 15 tech parks in Ukraine, and not all of them are still normal. The creation of a machine in Dnipropetrovsk is essential. I want to illustrate the first innovation projects in this park that are absolutely necessary. The language comes first, for example, about the creation of a machine and equipment for the industrial production of a thin aluminum steel letter, I know by now that steel leaves are covered with zinc and that's expensive enough, aluminium coating, the proper production of cars is already relevant for Ukraine. Machines and equipment for walking around. Mountain products by unexploded means. These things are in the West and they're very expensive. And they have to be made in Ukraine. Such and similar projects are in this technology park and they are very relevant, so I ask the honourable deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u17	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please, Yavorowski, Puzakov behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u18	Dear legislators, dear voters. Vladimir Yavorowski. First of all, I'd like to thank you, you know, I'm glad that our Parliament, in responding to the previous bill, has so clearly learned that it's an absolutely lobbyist adventure and that we haven't voted for it or even given it the opportunity to read again. I think it's a very important indicator, because we can't go through with this kind of compromise. Someone comes in here, someone talks, someone promises something, and then we wonder why our people live like this. As far as this bill is concerned. Of course, only an uneducated pessimist or fool can act against the very idea of a technology park. They are all over the world, they are really forming some local, so to speak, union, a local concert, where the task is one: giving the nation, giving the state, giving the economy, giving some new or new technology. Who can be against that when we know that we have most of the technology before the flood. They're all eating up so much electricity that our final goods actually barely stand any competition in the world market. I mean, the very idea is beautiful, and I'm very glad that this idea, in fact, is being introduced, is being carried by our patriarch of our Parliament, a wonderful man, to me, is our Ukrainian Sakharov, if you will, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. But whatever it is, as much as I don't love Yukhnov's truth for much more expensive, it's much more expensive. Igor Raphaelovich, well, you're just being pushed, I don't know who and I don't want to say anything bad, but there's a tech park in my district in Yavor. Come and ask any man, my electorate. What did this tech park give him, where was he, what was he doing? No one's gonna say anything. Look at the list we've already drawn up, in Donetsk, there's about 2 or 3, in Kiev, how many of them. Give me one final product. Call me the direction in which we broke through, where the tech park was given, and this is Igor Rafailovich, well, not evil, however it may be, but it's tax benefits, it's true. And here in this bill, you see how it's written modestly and beautifully. The adoption of the law does not provide for additional budgetary allocations, but it can even increase budget revenues when implementing investment and innovation bills. And these projects aren't actually there. Because of that, after honoring Gurov, honoring Igor Rafailovich, I think we should not do any more stupid things and mistakes. Let's do everything we can to make the technology parks that are today, that are behind the Seminomist, there are other vice-premiers and all that sort of thing. Please, let's not make a mistake, let's not vote for it. Before Igor Raphaelovich, I will apologize for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u19	Please, Puzakov, the Communist faction. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u20	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The project is designed to create favourable economic conditions for the introduction of domestic scientific developments in the machine industry and for the production of scientific high-tech products. Didn't the companies in the Soviet Ukraine work for high technology, did they not put in place these high-efficiency technologies for the production of rocket, defence and aviation technology, agriculture and manufacturing? It was, and it was working. There have also been jobs, and the volume of industrial production has increased annually, and investment and innovation projects have improved the environmental situation through the introduction of resource-efficient technologies. Where did it all go? And today, the Dnipropetrov region government is initiating this bill. And how did the daytime propeller giant of rocket space technology work? Unfortunately, they didn't notice that in 13 years, with one stroke of the magic wand, everything was destroyed and ripped apart, and today, let's create all of this in a new way. It is hurtful to note that there were powerful enterprises that worked for new technologies, produced high - efficiency products, and suddenly nothing happened. For example, in Kirovograd, during Soviet times, giant factories called Drukmash, Radio, Chavonolivarna were built, which were widely valued outside Ukraine. And today, only the foundation remains of these giants. Why and where were the equipment exported? Who's got the heat on that hand? And the heat's good. And in this situation, we Communists are proposing that all of us who, after looting national acquisitions and getting fat pieces from it, today should pay for them, but not for diet dishes, but for their full cost. Once we have discovered everything, we are now approaching the construction of the same businesses and introducing new technologies. We could simply reprove their production and continue to work on the same technologies that the communists have repeatedly called attention to. I agree that this bill, its implementation, aims to develop and implement high-efficiency machinery and equipment, equipment. But we need to take a closer look at the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u21	Please, Carmazin, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Radion's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u22	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honourable National MPs presented by the bill are proposed to add to the list of technology parks that are already in the current law on special investment and innovation activities in technology parks, a new technology park, which is being submitted by the Dnipropetrov district government. We are convinced that this will allow the city of Dnipropetrovsk to additionally create three thousand six hundred new jobs, increase the annual volume of industrial production by 4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2016. A bracelet, a change in the composition of the region's production forces. Let's see, honourable national MPs, when we hear a report on how those technoparks already work? How many of us, Igor Raphaelovich, do you know how much I respect you? The whole country respects you, and I do, and I love you. And I'm asking, let's at least get a new government out of here, from this rostrum, how they work, these tech parks, and what they've done up until then. We agreed that no technology park, no new hole. Was that it? There was. All of a sudden, we're bringing out a new one. Okay, if we take it out, let's think about a lot of things. First, the customs borders of Ukraine are now completely open. In Ukraine, everything is imported. Why? Because of this, of course, there is a time when insubordination, when Kuchma does not want to rule, and his environment puts everything in his pockets. And now it's happening in both the west and the south border around. I want to remind you that Ukraine produced 64 percent of the total production of television technology throughout the Union during the Soviet Union. At that time, 2 million 570,000 television units were produced. Now look at the reports you're making. You only import Chinese, Korean and everything, and then it's supposed to be here. So we lost 95 percent of our industry, we lost 95 percent of our machinery. And so we need to create conditions for the entire state to be offered for the technology parks. From a legal point of view, the project is unfinished. There is no change in the Law on Added Cost Taxes and on Business Income Taxation. They are the only ones who need to make changes, and otherwise the law cannot be considered. So, I think, with all due respect, Gurova, we need to put this bill back on the ground for a second first reading, with everything, everything, everything. And after the government's report on the work of the tech parks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u23	Please, Rodionov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u24	Commie faction, Rodionov. Dear radios, distinguished people's deputies! I want to say immediately that the Communists will vote in favour of this bill. I would just like to say to the opponents who are advocating not to accept it, and to remind them, dear colleagues, you have recently been in opposition and, as I recall, you have supported the adoption and operation of technology parks. With regard to the Communist faction, we have always advocated technological progress, for technological progress. Only on this road can Ukraine take forward positions. Of course, I would like to say that Vladimir Alexandrovich also spoke. The fact that tech parks are not making good today is not the fault of the technology park, and the policy of the State has been 13 years on scientific and technological progress. Indeed, science was not supported, but by the destruction of science. If we think Ukraine will come back from nothing today, it's just a profound mistake. I want to emphasize again. Of course, any science requires a cost, it can't be like that in an empty place. And that technology parks to date are one of the progressive forms of, of course, when the State takes control. Therefore, a new Government will not be formed soon. That is how we think that the former Government has always imposed a moratorium, and the current Government. Or the future of the government remembers that the technology parks have created nothing and should be said to be something that should not be stimulated by their creation. Of course, the Communist faction today, in its decision, has made its comments and considers and will continue to maintain the position that the State policy on the withdrawal of Ukraine to the best positions on the basis of scientific and technological progress should be established. And the tech park is like a shape, one of the shapes. Therefore, there is a proposal for colleagues: to support the draft decision, and a new one is said to be beyond the horizon, because so far there are already some communists from the left flank and more from the right flank. The majority and the new are said to be the majority that supports the Government. All right, let's go. Ukraine, on the other hand, is only on the basis of scientific and technological progress and those who do not support it can be said that they will continue that policy, policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u25	Question completed. From the motive of the vote, Nikolayenko, a minute. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Our committee went back twice to reviewing this law, to the law on the creation of this machinery park, and I would like to see my opponents today. This is the first time we've brought this bill back to work. After the authors worked hard on it, especially its economic part, we saw that this technology, once implemented, created new jobs, came into the budget, and covered all the costs that could be incurred in granting certain benefits, we supported this bill. And I'll tell my opponents. People are good! Don't mess with the free economic zones! We approve a specific example, one specific project. For example, the production of an aluminium - covered metal letter. Or, for example, drilling there by unexploded means. That's what we need. And that's all! Nobody's gonna import any chicken legs--nothing. This needs support, this is what Ukraine needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u27	Yes, dear fellows. Nothing. Igor Rafailovich, your first name, was mentioned quite positively, and I'm willing to join those high scores, and I think we're really going to have Igor Rafailovich take care of all the equipment of our nation and put order there. So let's say we confirm this by voting. I put to the vote the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Investment and Innovation in Technology Parks. [[on the technology park "Machining technology"]] Registration number 5730. Please vote. [[16:43:37]] For 190 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 6, Ukraine - 2, Communist faction - 59, SDPU - 14, Labour Ukraine, NDP - 15, National Agrarian Party - 20, SPU - 20, Block Timoshenko - 0, Union - 5, Ukraine - 20, Center - 3, Deminitiv - 11, Postfaction - 15. Please, the microphone of Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u28	I think there's probably a misunderstanding of the importance of this issue from "Our Ukraine," and I'm surprised at that. I want to answer Mr. Yavorowski's question that the Maporov technology actually got the Yavorovsky district out of the last place in the Lviv region first. I would like to draw Mr. Puzakov's attention to the fact that these new issues that are being addressed in the technology park were not addressed during the Soviet Union. I'd like to draw Mr. Carmazin's attention to the fact that we can report the work of tech parks. There's a lot of technology parks, and these are individual innovation projects, and we're going to report on each of them, and we have this report. And I agree with you that on the Supreme Council, we need to clear up the issue of technology parks. All the countries of the world have technology parks, and we should have them on our own. And so I propose either in the future to make Government Day, or to listen in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u29	There is an offer to go back to the subject. Who's in favour, please vote. [[16:45:45.]] For 169 The bill is off. Dear colleagues! Be careful. You and I, starting this morning's session, were talking about when we were determined from the days of the government, and we were talking about how once the draft decree was handed down, we were going to make a decision on temporary restrictions in the area of privatization. You have been given it, the essence of this decree is to ensure that there is no legal government for the time being, so to speak, and there is only the executive responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers so that no one has the right to exercise any privatization. This is Bill 6493. I'm putting it on the agenda, please vote. [[16:47:03]] For 271 Questions are included in the agenda. Yes, please, Valentina Petrovna for one minute, tell us and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, for your consideration, we make this decision, coming from the following situation, particularly when we refer to a special committee of large numbers and citizens and labour groups, when privatization takes place, even those objects that are not subject to privatization. This is especially true of the social sphere of the boarding - house family. And we even have cases where a boarding house in Yalta, which belongs to 50% of Russia, 50% of Ukraine, which goes as an intergovernmental agreement into privatizing one group, and we already have a call from the Embassy of the Russian Federation, in this regard we already have as an inter-State precedent. And I would like there to be no such moments until the new Cabinet of Ministers arrives, so that there are no similar cases, so that we can stop at this terrible invasion that is. Today, I can give an example of when in the Kyiv region, the State Committee of Standardization was evicted and privatized the premises in the form of municipal property, just for the sake of one, that even state institutions are already evicting from the premises. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u31	Thank you. Please, for the reasons of the vote, Matthew and I will vote. Matthew Anatoly's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u32	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Adam Ivanovich and Valentina Petrovna, I am adamant to support this decision, for they are being robbed not hours later but minutes later. But I do have a question: what is the legal force of this decision, who is going to carry it out, and why should we not at least duplicate and urgently prepare and adopt such a law, because not only for this rule, but for all future periods, but also for this issue, because otherwise this precedent will spread, and we will remain only in a broken trough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u33	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. You're absolutely right, the bill is so, it's kind of directed. But each one of us understands what a law is until we've passed it before we get it right before we sign it, we'll save nothing. And by force, we give a signal, a political signal to society that the Supreme Council warns those who want to do these things. That's why I'm voting on the adoption as a basis and as a whole on the Temporary Restrictions on Privatization. [[Registration number 6493]] Please vote. [[16:50:20]] For 282 It's been decided. Please, by the factions. "Our Ukraine" -81; communists -59; "Ukraine regions" - 4; National Agrarian Party -26; Social Democrats -0; "Ukrainian One" -20; Socialists 19; Timoshenko -18; "Trud Ukraine", NDP -5; "Soyuz" -12; "Deminicatives" -9; "Centre" -13; non-fractional -16. We're listening to a question: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the authorization of government authorities from price monitoring. Registration number 5387. National MP Olujko Vitaly Mikolayovich reports. Get ready for the Budjigan Committee. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have witnessed that prices for goods and services have changed rapidly in short periods of time, and in most cases government authorities have been powerless in such situations. The consequences of such changes are known to every Ukrainian family. The reason for this powerlessness of the public authorities is partly within the scope of the legislative authority. Today, we need to establish a more clear price control, warning an unreasonable price increase for the population. That's the idea that's in my review project. The state of the art of pricing in the market for goods and services makes it necessary, firstly, to properly regulate the competence of public authorities in the area of price control. Secondly, in ensuring that those responsible are attracted to allowing for price control offences. The main task of the project is to establish the obligation to provide the public authorities with the necessary information in the area of pricing and to establish administrative responsibility for violating the established pricing, pricing, and pricing arrangements. That's right. The bill proposes that public price control authorities be given the right to use information and primary documents for monitoring prices and tariffs in the management of the level and structure of prices and tariffs. It is envisaged to establish administrative responsibility for failure to comply with the requirements of the State price control authorities, as well as to determine whether public price control authorities are authorized to deal with administrative offences related to irregularities in the pricing, pricing and application of prices and the failure to comply with the legal requirements of the State price control authorities. The amendments are proposed to the basic price and pricing law of Ukraine and to the Code of Administrative Offences. Such an integrated approach will significantly improve price control and significantly prevent the emergence of crisis on the market for goods and services. I would like the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this important project for the country's economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u35	Thank you, Vitaly Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. It's from the committee. Philip Philipovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u36	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investments, at its meeting, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the powers of government authorities to monitor prices, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Olujk, registration number 5387. The bill provides for the establishment of legislative rules on the timely submission of necessary information to the public authorities in the area of pricing and the establishment of administrative responsibility for violating the established order of pricing and tariffs, as well as failure to comply with the legal requirements of the public price control authorities. In particular, it is proposed to amend the Code on Administrative Violations in Article 188.3, 244.5, and to amend the Law on Prices and Prices, Article 13. The author of the bill reported on the substance of the changes, so it is not appropriate to repeat them. In view of the fact that the bill aims at improving price control and increasing legality in the application of administrative fees for infringements in the area of State price control, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted on a basis. In the positive vote and in the proper preparation of the second reading, the proposals of the National Deputies and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration will be taken into account. For the sake of justice, it must be said that today's draft of the Vasadze People's Deputy's Order on the Inadmissibility of the Bill. But it is clear that his committee, the draft decree, did not consider, nor did any. Because he hasn't come to us yet. The committee's proposal is to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u37	Thank you, Philip Philipovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, there are national MPs here, but we have many drafts. Let's work harder today to have good reasons to meet the New Year's Eve. Let us vote in favour of adopting this draft law in the first reading. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, take down the vote, please. Well, then, please, let those who sign up from place for at least a minute. Please, School, follow him, Hinzburg. Just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u38	Thank you, of course, Adam Ivanovich, for a minute. Well, in principle, it's a bill that needs a serious study enough because, in principle, it can be voted on in the first reading, but it has to be understood that it's not a simple bill. And there are a lot of things here that need a very careful study. And I wonder at all why this committee is defined as a profile. The Committee on Law Enforcement, because this is a change in the articles of the Administrative Code. So, in principle, it surprises me. It's just as surprising to me that now the army is starting to lose its way into the economy. I'm afraid that things like this are going to happen here, too. Now, at the Ukrainian airline, there are military personnel, and I don't know what quality. It's the same here. I would ask, Adam Ivanovich, of course, in the first reading you can take, but with great warnings, because the bill is imperfect, and we don't have the right here even before the New Year's Day to make a decision like that without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, Hinzburg, follow her Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u40	Hinzburg, Communist faction. I would like to draw the attention of the radio and national deputies to the fact that, for example, article 188/3, which today will be edited as follows: failure to submit information and original documents in a timely manner, or the provision of unreliable information, and so on, and so forth, in the text, entails the imposition of a fine on officials from five to 18 untaxed minimum rates of citizens’ income. And this is if, for example, if the price is either for heat, or for water, or for other utilities, the organizations that set these prices should give this information. There is such a problem that, look, it's driven by some kind of coal, it's driven -- as they make deals, or half of coal -- half of the land, it's all at a price. Buying a car that's expensive by an organization -- it's at a price. They paid someone a bonus, everything at a price. Someone went to Canary for a price. See what the problem is: The budget is this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u41	Please, Karmazin. 6:59:23
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, first of all, Adam Ivanovich, nothing can be done without discussion. You've already figured that out, perhaps, clearly. Because the issue of law enforcement agencies and amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, which affects human rights and freedoms, is reported by the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment. What, we don't have three law enforcement committees? What, no Human Rights Committee? All of them are, and they should all make their comments. I would make such remarks. Yes, indeed, it is specified in article 188 with a three - badge, specified as to how and for what to draw to administrative responsibility. But the legal technique with which it is carried out needs to be improved. For example, part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u43	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a vote and define how we feel about this bill. I'm putting in first the decision of the National Deputy Vasadze that this bill is unacceptable. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:01:01]] For-23 Yes, 23. Please, Mironenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u44	5 constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Respectable compatriots! This bill will be supported by the Communist faction. To some extent, it can help a little bit, and the small, medium-sized entrepreneurs here will feel more at ease, that they will not be pressured illegally by the introduction of the following rule, namely the legal requirements of the State control body. However, I would like to emphasize that all the legislative proposals made by the Communist faction and only 60 members of our delegation are not accepted by the Supreme Council, which are really important to the population in terms of price constraints and so on. Why? You got it. Here are the oligarchs, the great capitalists, who make the money strong and I turn to the people of Ukraine. It is time to realize that capitalists will never lower prices, they will increase them, and so in the next election, please show wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u45	I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the authorization of public authorities from price monitoring]] Registration number 5387. Please vote. [[17:02:41]] For 216 Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. Vote. [[17:03:09]] For 202 Who's in charge of re-reading the first reading, please vote. [[17:03:31]] For 202 The bill is off. There's a draft Act on the additional terms of the Pavlogradwugil stock competition. [[Registration number 5470]] National MP Bondarchuk Alexander Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u46	Dear President, the People's Deputies! You are invited to consider a bill on additional conditions for the privatization of the coal-producing plant Pavlogradugol. This bill, I draw your attention, was submitted to the Supreme Council last April. Since then, a lot of water has been drained, including the privatization of the most promising coal-growing enterprise in the Pavlogradugal sector. And from a formal point of view, in principle, the bill could be withdrawn immediately, given that the sale had already been completed. But given that the situation at Pavlogradugle today is complex enough and, above all, typical, I would like to focus on the problems faced today by the thousands of enterprises that have undergone this privatisation process. It was promised: wage increases, social preservation, non-reduction of the number of employees in the enterprise. In fact, none of these promises have been fulfilled. But first of all, since the company was sold in what is called the American methodology, an estimate was made, i.e. at the residual cost, at a price of $400 million. As far as wages are concerned. Working. They promised that they would receive 3 or even 5,000 bracelets; in fact, there was no increase in wages; and for some categories of workers, let's say, electric lasers even lost their wages. There is a hidden decline in the social sphere, which is the most important, and this is the negative point that was highlighted in the bill. Following the privatization of Pavlogradugla, the heat and water tariffs for the population increased by 3, 2-3 times, before Pavlogradugol paid for all these services, all of which are now on the hands of workers. The Committee proposes that the bill be withdrawn and that it be finalized. But, of course, a company sold means a new project, a new decision, probably a proposal to verify the conditions, the commitments the new owner has made and the second moment, is, of course, a bill on the nationalization of the basic industries, strategic enterprises and we do not need to stop at that order, which we have just voted that the performing Kabmin cannot privatize. The following: The Government should also not have the right to privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u47	Thank you. The honourable colleagues, thus given a bill of mutual agreement by both the author and the committee of profile, and the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration of review is withdrawn. There is a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on manufacturing and movement operations across the customs border for laser-reading systems, registration number 5520, please, Demjokhin Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u48	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished National Deputies, the bill on amending certain Ukrainian laws on the organization of manufacturing operations and on the movement through customs control of carriers for laser reading systems, the bill is technical on the one hand because it provides for amendments, amendments to the draft law on external economic activity, on the characteristics of State regulation of the activities of operators associated with production, export, import of disks for laser reading systems, and also in the Code of Criminal Ukraine. The need for this bill is related to the contradictions of the laws that I have listed in the laws that I have listed. It's on the one side. But on the other hand, it's a very relevant bill because we protect intellectual property. The carriers on which this property now extends are moving across borders. And if you take a closer look at the problem, because the most valuable thing we have with you today in our country is people, it's land, it's the product that people are generating today, it's intellectual property. If we do not learn to protect this property ourselves, our property, the property that we use, then all of us, first and foremost, will lose the income part of the budget and our future. The Economic Policy Committee has considered the bill, recommends that it be adopted as a basis, and there are comments that can be taken into account when preparing for second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office also recommends that the comments and suggestions made be taken into account. Please support this bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u49	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, there is. Please, Yavorowski, get ready for Karmazin. Karmazin, please, Yuri Anatoliyovich, followed by Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u50	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. I don't know how you can ask questions about changing the Criminal Code again without law enforcement committees. What's that? Well, let's do the surgery, let the plumbers do the surgery. The same thing is happening to us right now. Same thing. Let's let medicine do the surgery. I ask Adam Ivanovich to stop this practice in Parliament. Please. We go to basic codes where the question of life, human freedom, human rights and freedoms is not professional at all. And it's all over the bill. Can we continue to do so and endure it? Same thing with the admin codex, you've seen the project before. Would you like to? Introduce. You don't want to? We didn't. Why listen to the experts ’ conclusions? You don't have to. So, your honor, you know, they don't fit in any of the parliaments of the world. In no parliament of the world. If leadership is not able to arrange a proper schedule, then let Parliament’s leadership change. It's changing the direction of the Secretariat, whoever it is. That's how I'm going to ask the question in every single speech I make. Because you can't take it anymore. Now, let's talk about what's proposed. It is suggested that the purpose is to harmonize the provisions of the Law on the Specificities of State Control of the Activities of Manufacturing, Export, Import Disks for Laser Reading Systems and the Laws on External Economic Activities on the licensing of certain activities. But the exact identical laws of 2292, 3155, 3676, 5182 were discussed in this room. And all were rejected, and they were not voted for. One, 2292, was accepted in the first reading, and on the second reading, he was overwhelmed. And it's quite right. They're absolutely identical. And now again we propose to take the same rakes. Thus, a valid version of the Law on the Specificities of State Control of the Activities of Owners associated with Production, Exports, Imports of Disks for Laser Reading Systems determines that nonplanned checks are carried out only on written appeal to the licensing authority for an appropriate purpose. The project suggests that pre-planned checks be carried out not only in the case of written application to the licensing authority, but at any time. Thus, the adoption of this project will result in unwarranted checks and abuses by licensing authorities. I can still name the 10 flaws of this law, but I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u51	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. As an experienced lawyer, I'd like to remind you that laws don't collapse, they do. Please, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u52	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! You all may remember the history of this long - suffering law on disks for laser reading systems. The previous speaker just said -- they were all rejected. Who were its initiators, and why were they not accepted? I just want to say that the Communist faction is not going to support this bill right now. First, it is not in the interests of Ukraine and, secondly, it distorts the actual position of intellectual property rights in Ukraine. Yes, the explanatory note states that this law is based on the need to bring international rules and regulations into line with laser disks. But I assure you, there is no such draconian norm and rules as proposed in this draft law in international law. I would like to point out that the existing legal framework in the area of intellectual property in Ukraine is in line with the international rules and the TRIPS agreement. The relevant changes have been made to the Civil, Criminal, Customs, and Procedural Codes. They're admitting it. By the way, international experts themselves. So it is not clear why Ukraine is still on the famous 301 list as a country that does not provide intellectual property protection. I believe that this issue has already become purely political. And politics, as the classics say, is a concentrated expression of economics. The Communist faction believes that it is another attempt to destroy high information technology, technology, computer printing, and so forth in Ukraine. For help. Ukraine has a direct and direct attitude toward the technology of producing laser disks. I remind you, back in 1976, for the first time in the world, for seven years before, the Philips in the Institute for Information Registration of Ukraine, then the Soviet Ukraine, had created optical disks connecting to electronic computing machines. Today, this institution alone has over 700 patents for these technologies. So to dictate to Ukraine the conditions that are highly technological in terms of developing and not developing is unethical, to a lesser extent, as they say. There is no legislative basis for the adoption of this law. I suggest we turn him down. These projects, I remind you, were rejected by the voting of Communist factions, socialists, Butt and Our Ukraine. Well, who's backing up today is supposed to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u53	Yes, please, from the place of Solomatine, behind him Kirilchuk. Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u54	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm the advisability of one of the speakers that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already dealt with the bill in a number of packages on several occasions and has rejected the bill four times with a thorough accusation of those who have tried again and again to implement a law through Ukraine's session hall that does not protect Ukraine's interests. What's the big deal? It's like we need to protect our intellectual property, but the dialectic here is that at the same time we're going to protect the intellectual property of the United States, Europe, and so on, but even more. Let's imagine one very simple thing with you: there's an amount of intellectual property tens and hundreds of times more, Ukraine loses more than it gets from such a law. I suggest you don't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u55	Please, Eugene Kirilczuk's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u56	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko I want to mention our colleague of the late Pavlovsky. You remember how many times he's protected the state-of-the-art technology system from this rostrum, and even on this issue, they're central disks. With reading systems, laser reading systems, so as not to stifle this technology in the embryo. We've passed these arakcheian laws that hit our new technology, but it's done to foreigners. And there's also a very important point that I want to stress here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u57	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over. I think we're clear. I'll put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on production and movement operations across the customs border for laser reading systems]] Registration number 5520. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:19:52]] For-84 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 30, communists, "The Regions of Ukraine" is zero, "The People's Agrarian" is 1, "The Social Democrats are 14, "The One Ukraine" is 18, "The Socialists, "The Block of Tymoshenko" is zero, "The Hard Ukraine" is 7, "The Union" is 0, "Democratic Initiatives" is 10, "The Centre" is 0, "The Postfactional" is 4. So the project is rejected. The question is: The draft Law on Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the organization of the activities of business entities created with the participation of state enterprises, registration number 5571. [[on the aviation industry]] Please, Gureev Vasil Mikolayovich. Get ready for Budjigan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u58	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Business Act, in accordance with the Constitution, established a level playing field for businesses, irrespective of the form of ownership of property and the organizational form of the enterprise. Later, article 3, paragraph 1, of the Act and part of the right of state-owned enterprises to act as founders of business entities, were suspended by the Cabinet of Ministers’s decree on the organization of the activities of business entities created by State-owned enterprises. Such a right, as an exception, was granted in this decree to enterprises of the construction industry that are engaged in construction abroad and carrying out project work. Following the introduction of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, Ukraine’s Act on Businesses became invalid, but the decree remains valid today. Article 31, paragraph 2, of the Code of Lords stipulates that discrimination against operators, the prohibition of the creation of organizational forms of farming is prohibited, and exceptions may be established by law, that is, exceptions to national security, defence, and public interest. I mean, we can view the aviation sector as an exception when we make this decision. So today, aviation companies that run international, virtually all projects are international and need to engage large investment resources, they don't have the right to represent their interests, they represent the interests of the State Property Fund. And you know, in practical activities, sometimes you get involved. When we were looking at the Antonov-70 situation, when we created a consortium, several countries took part, the representation of the State Property Fund did not always allow technical decisions to be made in summary terms that our foreign partners demanded. It's an economic decision and all that. Many decisions call for trust in decision - making and so forth. So this is about giving the state-owned enterprise the opportunity to represent their interests and to create such enterprises, directly an enterprise that is not subject to privatization -- a state-owned enterprise. In connection with the above, it is proposed to amend the Cabinet of Ministers decree on the organization of the activities of business entities created with the participation of state enterprises, that is, allowing airlines to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u59	Thank you, Vasil Mikolaiovich. Maybe we should vote? Then, please, from the Budzigan Committee, Philip Philippovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! To the extent that it was clear and clear that the People's MP Guriew had reported the bill, he also reported to our committee that there was nothing left to do but support it and offer it to the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis. The second reading will take into account the scientific and expert management's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Those who signed up would ask from place to place for a minute, if you don’t mind. Please, Karmazin. Maybe he'll speak for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! This is too serious a question to consider for one minute to anyone, too serious. Why? I want you to understand what's going on. First. What are the changes taking place? To the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After the new Constitution, we should have re-examined all the decrees, overturned. If we are making changes, we need to organize them exclusively by law. What is proposed? So that the leading companies of the airline industry can, i.e. state-owned enterprises can't all be the founders of enterprises of any organizational form or species, except construction, and these could be. What is the threat to the State? I want everyone to understand that now our best planes have been arrested in Canada, in debt, the state on appeal to the State Property Fund now in case such an enterprise, an aviation science and technology complex called Antonova, which I highly respect, I really think they want to know that those toilets. The ones they put on AN-140, they're French, but they don't work, they break many times, and you know, German, they tell me, German, German. But they break down, they have to bet that people don't complain about it, because people still complain about it, where there's a lot of it, if they make farm associations, then they'll make some agreements, and then how the founders can match state property, and then there's not one arrest going to be, abroad and not just one plane, and not just abroad. And that mass could be arrests. By the way, I want to tell you that this is a threat to the security of the state, I am convinced of this, just as it threatens to protect the policy of today's Government, which, Adam Ivanovich, on December 24th, is temporarily acting as Chief of Staff, the First Deputy Commander of the High Command of the Land Army is giving a command to inform him by December 25th and to offer to implement the premises between the 5th and the 6th Station of the Great Fountain in Odessa, which belongs to the Odessian Institute of Land Forces, which would cost 850 million dollars, that's what you're talking about. Legislation on national security is being violated. I firmly oppose the adoption of such a bill because it will open the door to privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u63	Yes, please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u64	Thank you. The school of Andrew. The Julia Tymoshenko faction, I'd like to point out first that you know the aviation industry is a sector that in Ukraine, despite the great efforts of the former government, exists, exists yet, but does not. I understand that the good intentions of the drafters of the bill are to allow the design office to make money, but these are good intentions. Let us not forget the high road to hell. Good intentions. So in this situation, we need similar bills to follow the initiative of the new government, and then cooperation with the new government will develop all the design offices and all the structures involved in the aviation industry, including ANTC Antonova, to develop its production so closely and productively with the new authority that it will produce at least some results. Now I'm convinced that this bill is good, that it will draw attention to the problem in the field, but I think it's a bit premature to vote right now, not after it works. Because it could happen the way it happens with the Ukrainian Air Transport Company. There's a company that wants to own a ministry that basically has nothing to do with this company, it's the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine. There are troops in the company's territory, you can imagine, troops are now in it and they won't let you run the temporary head of this company. They want to bankrupt the enterprise and thus take over the territory in order to succeed or fail to trade these resources. I'd like him to listen to my words, not just talk about what he's listening to. [[The prosecutor says he's listening to the Supreme Council.]] And I fear that this may happen when the owners become the design bureaus, when the owners are able to make their property, I emphasize, the property as part of a limited liability society. I'm not sure everything's gonna be okay there. So I wouldn't want to risk the best technology in Ukraine. Ukraine is part of a small group of nations that can produce their own aircraft, which have their own aviation industry. Therefore, it is not the way to help, but it is the support of the State that needs to be helped, rather than allowing the ability to make the most valuable wage in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u65	Please, Bondarchuk Alexander, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u66	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Dear Chairman, People's Deputies. We have many obstacles to the development of the aviation industry in Ukraine. These barriers are put on by our colleagues, let's say, or rivals, the competitors of the West. This is the United States of America, this is Western Europe, which by all means prevents our aircraft from being placed in Western European markets. And the example of selling "AN-70" is what characterizes this situation. But we have enemies of the development of the aviation industry, we do, and within Ukraine. And you just heard from two factions trying to intimidate us by selling out our businesses after this bill was passed. In fact, colleagues, it is quite another matter. The aviation industry differs from many industries in Ukraine because it is indeed very labour-intensive and requires enormous financial costs during the R & D development phase, foresight design, work design, and the launch into the aviation series. Indeed, there are some five countries in the world that are capable of developing and producing aviation technology themselves. Among them is Ukraine. Our country, the poorer nation, is in large bankruptcy. And such a State cannot help the development of our aviation industry. Therefore, at least you should not interfere with the development of the aviation industry in Ukraine. To that end, this bill gives our leading enterprises a small right to establish joint long-term projects — economic, financial, international and domestic — in order to obtain the necessary resources to develop such complex science-intensive technology as aviation technology. I ask the people's deputies to reject this orientation now, let's say, in the West, to forget about who might have financed something there, and to support this bill, because without such empowerment our aviation industry will not survive under these conditions the severe competition that exists on the world market. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u67	Please, Puzakov conveys the word of Solomon. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, our colleague Alexander Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u69	You're not Yavorowski either, but you're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u70	which gave much of his life to a business called Antonov and knew the problem very well. And so far, he's been in contact with his colleagues at this company, and he's come here to us, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in the session room he's made a cry of pain not only from himself, from his heart and his mind as a specialist, but also on behalf of those hundreds and thousands of people who have entrusted him and with a commission on behalf of whom he's speaking in this session room. So I'm asking you very much, let's support this bill. I'm talking to everyone, including my colleagues today, who reminded us that we should listen to professionals, that we don't need a locksmith to talk about electronics and vice versa, the electronics issue was discussed either by a writer or a lawyer, even though they do understand something about this. So I'm asking you a lot, please, let's do a professional that has hundreds and thousands of people from the aviation industry standing behind us, and those who are working to ensure that the electronics of the aviation industry are properly maintained. I will be very grateful to those who voted in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, we have another one that has something to do with aviation. It's the Dry One's motive, and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, here in this room I want to remind everyone that in 2001 a law was passed on State support for domestic aircraft construction. This law worked so hard because it was hampered by fast-track legislation that had to be repealed long ago. Let me remind you that the aviation sector is developing at its own expense. 138 million dollars in AN-70 were invested by our Ukrainian companies, which are in this list. The 2005 budget for AN-70 and AN-148 provides only 10 million dollars. That's a funny number. And as for the fact that we have bad toilets on Ukrainian planes, I explain to experts that these companies listed here are not privatized. No one's taking them anywhere. We're creating an opportunity for Ukrainian airlines to work normally in market conditions, make money, and develop our progressive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, considering the discussion, let us take him up on the first reading. I am voting on the adoption of the law on the basis of amendments to the Cabinet decree on the organization of business entities created by State enterprises. Registration number 5571. At the same time, I ask you to take into account what Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin stressed here about the decrees that should become laws. Please vote. [[17:38:03]] For 171 Can we do it again first? Who's in charge of re-imposing the first one, please vote. [[17:38:27]] For 210 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communists - 58, "Regions of Ukraine" - 33, National Agrarian - 22, Social-Democratic - 9, "One Ukraine" - 12, Socialist - 14, Block Timoshenko - 10, NDP, "Trud Ukraine" - 18, "Soyuz" - 0, "Deminicatives" - 13, "Centre" - 8, "Afterfractional" - 13. But, dear colleagues, let us not be too upset. Two weeks from now, we'll be back. The bill didn't go through. Please, everything. There's a bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Tax Transactions. Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Language in this bill on the addition of the third article of the second active law on granting permission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine cases concerning the placing on the market of donor raw materials in external economic relations of reprocessing operations when the code for the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity does not change. What causes this? The donor raw material imported into the customs territory of Ukraine by a foreign customer and resulting in non-code-change operations is subject to import duties at the rate of the sole customs tariff of Ukraine by taxes and by the congregations involved in importing goods according to legislation, i.e. on general terms. This leads to the fact that a number of our businesses are unable to provide services to foreign buyers for the processing of tax materials and thus have some economic damage. This refers to a range of sectors, including the agricultural sector of the economy, some processes of color metallurgy, chemical, electrical, woodworking, and light industry. That's why this law is necessary. But given that he was prepared, and after that a number of laws have been passed that need to be reconciled now, I would ask Adam Ivanovich that we take this bill to the next four, for example. For reconciliation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u75	All right, let's settle. Roger that. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes. The draft Law on a special regime for investment activities in the territory of the Chigirian region of the Cherkas region is being considered. Registration number 5741. The author of the bill, including by the committee, in one person was Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transboundary Commodity Transactions, submitted by National Deputies Kalinczuk and Tsushk, provides for the authorization of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to determine the cases of the use of donor raw materials in external economic relations with the processing of such raw materials without any change in the code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u77	Vladimir Anatolyevich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u78	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u79	We've already passed this law, we've taken it down. Tell me about Chiguirin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u80	I'm sorry. Can I add?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, everyone is proposing to vote on the draft Law on a special regime for investment activities in the territory of the Chigirian region of the Cherkas region. Registration number 5741. Please vote. [[17:42:33]] For a hundred and Yes, please, who wants to participate in the discussion of the bill? Please, Chernewsky. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u82	They've already voted, haven't they? Well, they gave me their word. Dear Adam Ivanovich, when you voted, it is very noble that 150 votes have been drafted by such an old bill and people who listen to us, by the way, the Chernovetsk, the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. They must remember that there are thief laws -- laws on free economic zones wherever they are. The free economic zone at all than people can understand, it's different at all, and where does the idea come from? There is a problem area, such as Chernobyl. Here comes the raccoon, there is the incense, the man who lobbies the law in the authorities. It is a man who is profiting from the blood of the working people. This smell of cocky face goes to the authorities concerned and pierces a legitimate initiative, given naivety, of course, including communists, because you will understand what this is about. I'll tie you up with some of those incenses, and you'll talk to them. These are the richest people in Ukraine today. What are you helping them with? I understand you don't take money for this, but why are you helping them? I don't understand. When you talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u83	Leonide Mikhailovich, please, not about the incense, but about the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u84	This law is being passed further by the heathen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u85	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! We agreed with you, first of all, that no one in this room uses words that frighten people and non-censorship. First. The other one. We agreed that everyone speaking spoke about the law, not what he wanted. Please speak of the law concerning Chigirin of the Cherkas region. Please, I'll give you a minute if you talk about the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u86	So I'm talking about the free economic zone law in the city of Chigirin. Such laws have been passed in Ukraine, I want to tell you very much. These are black holes, including in Chigirina, this is another black hole in the budget, which means that no value added tax, although he and the robbery, will not pay any taxes in this city. If we take all the free economic zones we've created. Ask for information, nothing is created there, no business is created there, and nothing will be created in Chigirin. Pahan's going to dump the money through the appropriate structures, the robberies that are going to be registered in Chigirina, supposedly they're going to be sewing shoes there, some other shit doing this. And they seem to have developed some sort of activity there. I've called people like that on a special basis, there's no living soul in there, nobody you vote for, I don't know. And please don't make such laws, they're killing Ukraine, they're not doing anything good, so first ask for information, and then with a calm conscience, let's talk about the free.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u87	Thank you. Thank you. Yes. Thank you, please, let's give Demiochin, who hasn't figured out what to do, and then we'll continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u88	Adam Ivanovich, the esteemed Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, of course, can be avoided when we have a report, a report, a report, and some laws simply contain a report or a report. There's got to be some way to streamline this process. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, it is not the Chigirin bill. This is a global problem in our country at all. Either we provide conditions for investment and innovation, or we do not provide them better. I didn't beat you up Leonid Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. So for all of us, we've been to a special economic zone. And in Yavoreva, they saw the area rise, thanks to Stepan Ivanovich Lukasik, who worked there and managed the special economic zone. We were in Nikolaev and we saw what Damien was. The Nikolaev factory, when more than 10,000 people got jobs. The factory, I didn't kick your ass, I didn't kick your ass. Please. And today this lie produces 14 vessels simultaneously, standing in the building. So, it's only about when equipment is being shipped that there should be a preference for the import of such equipment for VAT benefits? They're supposed to. And the world enjoys these preferences. So either we set the same conditions for the whole country, or let's give those areas anyway. Adam Ivanovich, please call for the order of the Chernovsky. Leonid Mikhailovich, please let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u89	Dear colleagues. I'm making a point to the Montenegrin People's Deputy for preventing him from holding a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u90	Thank you. I'm asking you to increase your time. Thus, a number of visiting meetings of the Committee were devoted to studying the activities of special economic zones and territories of priority development. If there are violations, these violations must be dealt with by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Tax Administration. When we take statistics and are surprised, we show 128 million exports to Lithuania, and Lithuania shows 10 times less imports from Ukraine. I wonder what it is. It's a tax evasion, customs, because it's called a return, so if you'll excuse me, a fictitious VAT. Similarly, in special economic zones, if there are problems and there are problems, there are other products, let's put things in order. But if there's a fact working, working Yavoriv, then there's a working area in the same Donetsk, so why do we have to kill these good endeavors. I think this question is going to be a race issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u92	This question will be considered at the seventh session of the special parliamentary hearings. I ask the distinguished colleagues to support the initiative of the Committee. We propose a series of events: round table, conference. In conclusion. Parliamentary hearings on modern economic policy in the context of constitutional reform. And consider this issue separately. Because we're either going to give innovation a chance or we're losing it. Then there is no need to talk about the investments that will flow widely into our country. Then we will calm down and relax, and only through our own resources will we engage in innovative activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u93	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I understand, with motives. I understand, with motive. With your permission, I'll put it to the vote again. Dear colleagues, the bill thus won 150 votes. He's getting off the case. Chubarov, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u94	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are so fond of making remarks. Let me tell you this. Even though some national MPs insisted on discussing the matter, you did not give that opportunity. Put it to the vote right away. It's a positive decision, I understand it, and you didn't get a positive one. That's why you've already begun, despite the vote, to involve the deputies in the discussion. Double violation of the Rules. So you did the right thing, you stopped the discussion, and we move on to the next question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u95	And thank you. There is a draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. [[on rules for the registration of legal acts]] Registration number 5624. The author of the bill is Chernevski. Get Alexiyuk ready from the committee. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u96	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. I want to tell you another sad story that we have in Ukraine as a result of the standardization of thief ministries and agencies. It's about that. So that both grandparents will know. That all ministries and departments, including all mayors, and all administrations there, have the right to adopt regulations by law. And they've been taking most of them for a million times. There's a President's decree that extrabudgetary funds can't be created, they create them, they steal them, and so the money doesn't go into the budget. This can be confirmed by the tax administration's doctor here. But that's not the worst part. You can issue a regulation and make a gentleman walk on his head. I mean, it's come to pass that under Mr. Lavrinovich all the tax administration's regulations have been classified, you won't get any legislation. There's a complete end to the world. Who they're paying for VAT, who they're not paying for, what they're making there, nobody knows about it, not to mention the IMF, about others. I propose that my bill, in the interest of your constituents, address the matter as follows. If a bad uncle, the head of the administration, issues a bad bill that prevents grandparents from doing something specific, yes, and he has the right to do so, and registers with the bad Ministry of Justice, which is not a good bill today, this bill, but a legal act, to punish him at least administratively, at least with a bad fine, so that he doesn't make fun of these people anymore, right? Because today they're making such a big deal out there that you can't put it on your head. If anyone disagrees, I'll be happy to hear it. Their million, these all regulations that violate the rights of our constituents. Please, I beg you, hold this bill. He's important. And then we go. The next will be the criminal responsibility of all non-ministers, including ministers, whatever ministry they represent - present, tomorrow, the most human rights-infringing ones. And don't forget to call your parents who hear my speech, or I forgot to say it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u97	Leonid Mikhailovich, but in the presence of such a fine deputy minister of justice as Inna Ivanovna, why say that the Ministry is not good. Please, from the Committee of Alexiyuk Sergiyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u98	Sergei Alexiyuk, Ukrainian People’s Party, Victor Yushchenka’s Block The Legislature Committee considered the bill at its meeting and believes that it is possible to recommend to the Supreme Council, as a result of the first reading, that it should be adopted on the basis of further substantive work prior to the second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on observations and suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u99	Thank you. Shall we vote or discuss? Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u100	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully studied the proposal of the national deputy of Chernevski. Despite the various comments that have been here, I want you to know that the only mistake that I'm seeing at the time of the introduction -- I want the Czernovetsksky National MP to pay attention to his employees who were doing it technically -- is what they did 188 with the badge 19 valid edition of the previous article, and then they gave this one. This is a new article that does not replace the preceding article, which referred to the failure to meet the legal requirements of the Authorized Supreme Council, the Court of Auditors, the national deputy of Ukraine. But I absolutely agree with the comments that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has made on this law, and I fully agree. Because considering the sanctions in this article, it may be a bit harsh: From 10 to 25 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens by officials. If they don't take bribes, it's going to be hard for them, but on the one hand, it's going to be irresistible. So maybe the sanctions will be justified, but after the words "owners" for the purpose of specification, who is in charge of officials, should be supplemented by the words "ministeries, other executive authorities, administrations and control bodies, organs."and the words "rule" as well as "non-compliance with the legal requirements laid down by legislation with the registration of legal acts" shall be excluded as unnecessary. And then this bill will be completely normal. Thank you. Please accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u101	Shall we vote? Deputy Minister, please. Jemelyan’s Nina Ivanovna One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u102	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'd just like to ask you two questions. First of all, it's a project. In imposing responsibility, it does not establish officials who will file administrative records, nor does it set up a body to deal with cases of these administrative offences. That's the first one. And secondly, in order to combat negative phenomena in this area, speech needs to be held at the disposal of, first of all, the responsibility for avoiding the submission of national registration of legal acts, not the abstract violation of registration legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, therefore, we have the opportunity to take into account the opinion of the Ministry of Justice in the first reading with a view to making those proposals that have been developed in the second draft law on the addition to the Code of Administrative Offences. Registration number 5624. Please vote. [[18:00:14]] For-173 The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 87, communists - 46, Ukrainian regions - 17, National Agrarian Party - 3, Social Democrats, Ukraine - 1, Socialists - 2, Block Timoshenko - 0, NDP, Labour Ukraine, Union, Democratic Initiatives - Zeros, Center - 7, Non-faction - 9. Who is responsible for the rereading of the first reading? Please vote. [[18:01:05]] For-167 The project was removed, but not shortly after the next session. Overruled. So you can bring it in at the next session. We're hearing a question: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution. Please, Lejko Grigorovich Lukjanenko is invited to speak. This is the 2012 project registration number. Prepare Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u104	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Uliy Timoshenko. Deputies! It's about complementing the law. These additions are not very large, but they need to be made in order to expand the circle of citizens who can benefit from this law. I want a little bit of history on this. The Nuremberg Tribunal found it a crime to take citizens of the occupied countries to Germany for forced labour, the first. After World War II, second - century Germany allocated 120 billion infants to prisoners and coerced laborers. The Soviet Union took its share in exporting factories and factories from Germany, but after the accession of East Germany to West Germany, Germany decided to pay partial compensation to those who were on, in concentration camps and in other ways were deported and in general suffered reprisals. In 1993, a Ukrainian National Fund for Understanding and Reconciliation was established in Ukraine, and in 2000 a Foundation for Memory, Responsibility and the Future was established in Germany. These documents provide that the geography of countries involved in the use of the slave force needs to be broadened. Thus, this clarification applies to the Geographical Law in such a way that those, the participation of prisoners and others who have been taken to work not only in Germany but also in Austria and Romania. Because in these lands our people also worked, who were forcibly taken out of Ukraine for forced labor. Next. The previous law adopted by the Supreme Council in 2000 by the number 1584-3 "On Victims of Nazi Persecution" did not include at least two categories of victims. So in this bill, which I'm proposing to you, we need to introduce two more concepts. They're scraps and deformations. The U.S. is the term that the Germans themselves introduce, it is. This is about the Ukrainian boys that the Romanians took, they were offered to join the Romanian army. They refused, and they were organized by such working groups, committees, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u105	Thank you, please. Please finish because you can talk for hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, language is all about everything. The Montenegrin district council calculated how many people were affected and how much they would have to pay. It's only about 1,020 people. So there's no big cost here. And that doesn't cost the budget, because it's about what the Germans have to pay, and we're expanding the population of Ukrainians who can claim to be Germany. So there's no charge on the budget, and not a lot of people like that. Please vote. Our scientific expertise suggests that we accept it on our first reading. I propose to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u107	Will we vote, or will we discuss? Vote? Then, please, I'll vote for acceptance. There's a denial. Yavorowski. Please take off the vote. Turn on the microphone from the voter's motive
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u108	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, indeed, I think, and the work done by Leukko Lukyanenko may have been undetected for some of us MPs. What he's done, these refinements, this really needs to be done. I think we're going to vote for that. And, Adam Ivanovich, I respect you more here, maybe even more than anyone else, but let me make my point: more free to conduct a session like you did today, that was not the case. You don't give a word, you cut it, you give it a minute and a half. These are laws, Adam Ivanovich, not colporteur congregations. I respect you, but don't do that again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-13-m1.u109	I'm both, but unfortunately, we don't have any more clubs. Yes, is there a need for the committee to speak? Oh, no? Yes, I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution, registration number 2012. Please vote. [[6:07:30.]] For 196 There's a proposal for a profile committee to send this bill for further work. Please vote. [[18:07:53]] For 262 A decision has been made. Yes, we have seven minutes left. Now. Dear colleagues! Yes, so, dear fellows, it is clear that we will no longer accept anything with you today, even though we should take something. So please, this is where we finish our work. Once again, I sincerely welcome everyone with the New Year's Eve. I wish everyone could have a good night, but don't forget that tomorrow we're starting work at 10:00 in the morning. This evening’s session is closed.
