ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, guests for journalists! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:02:06]] There are 414 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome the Jubilee today, 70 years old to our colleague Anatoly Romanovich Francis. We wish him fruitful work in the field of lawmaking. [[Applause]] Yes, let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on September 7, 2005. 22 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 15 laws were passed in general, four bills were adopted on a basis, and three bills were rejected. Given that we only worked one morning meeting yesterday, I think we've worked productively with you. I urge you to do the same thing today. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the change in the name of the Ukrainian delegation to the title: “Deputy faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, “Region of Ukraine”, in short – the deputy faction of the Party “Regions of Ukraine”, on the basis of the decision of the parliamentary faction of September 6, 2005. Another announcement, another announcement applies, here are statements made by the 15 national deputies concerning the formation of the “Our Ukraine” political party. But since you remember yesterday, I made an announcement that a faction of the political party was created by the People's Union “Our Ukraine”. “Our Ukraine”, where the short name “Our Ukraine” is also short, so we agreed that I would ask the faction leaders for half an hour or an hour to hold consultations. There is another point that both factions have the same mandate, the same Philenko. Here we have to figure out where the faction remains and after these technical questions, I'll announce, I'll announce when I'm informed by the representatives of these factions, I'll finally announce the creation of this faction. So please, both Martinenko and Soboljeva, please consult. Yes. Well. I beg you, I will read it, but I am addressing the National MP, our colleague, Philindash, only, as it were, will he have to form this statement accordingly. At least. I think there's no doubt that it will be formed, so, with your permission, I'm reporting the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine's National Deputy Philindash. But please take it and form it through the secretariat. Yes, dear colleagues, here, here, two factions want to announce a recess. But perhaps we will follow a established tradition: that is, sometimes without interruption they know that they wanted to consult and express their thoughts. Is there any objection? These are factions: the political party “Ukraine” and the faction of the Social Democratic Party. Are you ready to announce your application? Please, Taras Blackwall, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the noble people of Ukraine! We claim that there is a deep crisis in Ukraine today. Economic, financial, social, agricultural and international crises, finally, the moral crisis of power. The worst part is that the systemic crisis of power is gone, and the latest events are confirmed. The crisis is taking place in general. Otherwise, it could not have happened, since the people who came to power had no intention of working for the State, they went to satisfy their own needs. The president promised to separate power from business by the seventh knee, but his highest environment, even his own family and his own son, were demonstratively ignoring this principle. These people came here to keep the rotten system alive, to preserve it in all its most ugly forms, to preserve the bushmish that they had fought so hard against. They have no vision of Ukraine's strategic path of development. They were in power for the sake of power. Their nonprofessionalism and corruption are destroying the country. Today the country is kneeling before the world, in front of its neighbors, and in front of its distant neighbors. The continuation of such a state of affairs threatens to preserve the existence of the Ukrainian State in general. We have been trying to argue that we are using the crisis for our political purposes. No, we live in this country, we offer our help, seeing the unprofessionalness of their team, we have been silent for a long time, and we have given them the opportunity to fulfill our populist promises. We find that no honest - working person will soon be able to live on this ruin that they are turning into a nation. Realizing that the confidence gained by the deceptive course has been exhausted, they are making cool changes in their skills. Some will quietly write their own applications for release, others without sounding, investigating, and punishing will quietly resign for a short period of time. We say no to this queued deception of the people. The president publicly formed his team in this room and swore in her honesty. We demand that the President come back to the Supreme Council and here, in the face of the Supreme Council and the entire people of Ukraine, only here, sign all the staff resignations, arguing at each point and giving orders for the punishment of the perpetrators of the crimes that are now on the lips of the entire people of Ukraine. We demand that no one else’s eyes be caressed when, in the form of an updated team, the same mosquito will continue to destroy the state. We insist that such a meeting take place immediately today in the afternoon, the longest, tomorrow, at tomorrow's meeting. We insist that today the issue of holding such a meeting be put to the vote. The president is obliged to take full responsibility for each individual and to shoulder that responsibility until the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u3	Thus, honourable colleagues, factions took advantage of their right to a break. Let's move on to the agenda. A review of the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual Ukrainian national deputies is being announced. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Matvijev Valentin Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u5	Valentin Grigorovich, wait. Dear colleagues, I understand that there are some serious changes in the state, in the personnel, in the political community, that all of this is something you talk about and worry about. But believe me, it's so lively, I can't hear a reporter at all. So let's just keep it a little bit quieter, please. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at their meeting yesterday, the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed the question of the termination of the powers of 19 Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 12 are the corresponding draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To date, according to the Committee's consideration of this problem, the following national deputies are associated with the performance of duties in public authorities with the mandate of deputy: Boyko, who means Boyko, Head of the State Committee of Ukraine from the State Reserve. His statement was considered that he had submitted an appropriate application in the name of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine requesting that the President be asked to release him from his duties as head of the State Committee. That is, a proper discharge procedure should be carried out, and the committee postponed the decision on the Boyka People’s Deputy yesterday until the next meeting. He remains a co-founder and Steckov, the head of state, and I apologize, the president of the National Television Company of Ukraine, who has applied to the President for his resignation. She, more faithfully, is a copy of the presidential statement on the committee. The committee also referred the final question to the next meeting. In addition, a decision was not taken regarding the first Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Catherinechuk Mikli Dmitrovic, who, as it turned out, only yesterday made a statement in the name of Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine concerning his resignation, about his resignation from office to the President of Ukraine. Also discussed is the question of the cohabitation of the National Deputy of Greenevo, who, you remember, is headed by the National Institute of Strategic Research for the day. September 9th, tomorrow, this issue is being resolved in accordance with his statement, as he informed us yesterday, the President of Ukraine. And in the end, Boyko, we're talking about Yuri Boyko, who's appointed president and then the Cabinet of Ministers as chairman of the National Commission of Experts for the Protection of Social Morality. He is given the opportunity for the next meeting of the committee to finally determine whether he is in office or to carry out the duties of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Now, with regard to the individual national deputies, the questions were discussed at the committee meeting yesterday and appropriate decisions were taken. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u7	Yes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u8	The committee considered the question of the statement made by National Deputy Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich, as you know from your colleagues, Yuri Anatoliyovich was appointed President of Ukraine on February 4th as head of the Zaporez District Authority. According to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on June 15, the Court of Appeal of Kiev, on recommendation of our committee, terminated its mandate. On July 28, however, the same appeal court examined Artemenko’s application to review the June 15 court’s ruling in connection with the new circumstances, namely, these newly discovered circumstances, that on June 10 he filed a personal written application with the Supreme Council for the formation of parliamentary powers. The court has adopted a motion that has been revoked by the previous decision of June 15th to suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy for the term of office. Therefore, according to the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of July 26th, the Committee has considered the application of Artemenko for the term of office. And a corresponding draft decree has been made for the permanent suspension of the parliamentary powers of Mr. Jury Anatoliyovich in connection with his personal application for the appointment of a member of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Artemenko Jury Anatoliyovich, elected in the one-man election district No. 77, Zaporin Region, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers”. Registration number of Bill No. 8103. Please vote. [[10:18:44]] For 358 Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u10	Next on the statement made by the national deputy Baloga Viktor Ivanovich. By order of the President on February 4th, he was appointed Head of the Zacarpathian State Administration. And since then, in violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, he has violated the requirements of these two posts. On April 19th, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the proper submission of our committee, appealed to the court for the suspension of the authority of the Baloga People's Deputies for a court decision. The trial was held on April 24, May 16, June 3, and only June 30, this year’s statement by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was satisfied, and the court’s decision to suspend the authority of the Balogah people’s deputy became legally binding. Thus, his authority was suspended on a permanent basis. On July 7, however, the same Court of Appeal of Kiev, honourable colleagues, accepted the following approval, of Baloga Viktor Ivanovich's application to review the newly discovered circumstances of the Kiev Court of Appeal on June 30, to satisfy the decision of the Kiev Court of Appeal on June 30, on the suspension of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy Baloga Viktor Ivanovich under the newly discovered circumstances. Thus, the committee considered these materials and, as you can see, the decision of the Court of Appeal was overturned and the committee decided to make an appropriate draft decision for your consideration, that is, a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the national deputy of the Republic of Baloga for a period of time in connection with his personal application.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! I am voting for the adoption of Supreme Council Resolution on Cessation, the timely termination of the National Deputy of Ukraine Baloga Viktor Ivanovich, elected in the one-maned constituency No. 71 of Zacarpatsk in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Bill 8104 registration number. Please vote. [[10:22:12]] For three hundred Decision taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u12	Thank you. As for the statement made by National Deputy Bondarchuk Sergio Vasilovich. By decree of the President of March 23, he was appointed Director General of the State Company for Export and Importation of Military and Special Purpose Products and Services. The committee had previously considered the matter. However, in connection with the submission by Sergey Vasilovic, the committee is proposing to support the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of the Powers of the Bondarczuk People’s Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u13	I am betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Bondarczuk Sergio Vasilovich, elected in election district No. 20 of Volinsk in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Bill 8105 registration number. Please vote. [[10:23:50]] For 306 Decision taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u14	Thank you. Now, about the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gurvitsa. It was very difficult to consider this issue all the time that the problem arose. Gurvitz was recognized as the elected Odessa City Head and in an alternate session of the City Council, he took the oath of the city’s head early in April and proceeded to carry out his duties, and, more precisely, even since the fourth of April of this year. Therefore, on May 12, the committee addressed the National Deputy Gurvice with a letter requesting the committee to send all the necessary documents regarding both the court’s decisions and the materials and documents adopted by the Odessa City Council accordingly. And also to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the appointment of a national deputy of Ukraine according to the model sent by us, that is, the committee. However, the Gurvitz committee did not send a long - term formal response. But in doing so in the media, the committee repeatedly accused me, personally as the head and one of the leaders of the Communist faction, of the fact that the review of his application for parliamentary powers was deliberately prolonged. At the meeting of the Committee on June 22, the issue of non-compliance by the National MP Gurwicz with the requirements of the Constitution and of the current legislation was again considered. And on June 29, it was recommended that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine apply to the Kyiv Court of Appeal. Only on August 2, he, or the national deputy Gurwitz, sent a notary application for the permanent submission of parliamentary powers and other documents that testify to his election by the Odessa city’s head. Taking into account what has been said, the committee, after considering the matter yesterday, suggests that the decision be made to terminate the mandate of the Gurwiitz people’s deputy on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u15	Yes. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the Supreme Council's decision to suspend the terms of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gurvice Eduardo Josephovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the constituency block of Victor Yushchenka “Our Ukraine” in connection with his personal application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Please vote. Registration number is 8106. Vote. [[10:27:46]] For 370. Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u16	Thank you. Regarding the consideration of the statement made by the People’s Deputy Morozov. As you know, Your Honor, Mr. Morozov Alexander Valeriyovich is our colleague, elected head of VAT on May 27, this year. On August 8, in addition to his July 6, application, he filed an application for an early termination. Therefore, a proposal is made to support the committee's tabled by the people's deputies, our committee by the people's deputies, the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u17	Yes. Please put to the vote the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Morozov Aleksandra Valeriyovich, elected in the multi-mandatory national constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties, the Viktor Yuschenka Block “Our Ukraine” in connection with his personal application for the composition of parliamentary powers, registration number 8107. Please vote. [[10:29:28]] For 358 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u18	With regard to the termination of the authority of the People’s Deputy Pauluk Mikoli Pantelemonovich. On March 29, Ukrainian National Deputy Pavluk Mikola Pantelemonovitch ordered the Minister of Transport and Communications appointed as Chief of the Odessa Seaport. On May 16, a letter was sent to the Ukrainian national deputy Pauluk asking him to determine on which position he would continue to serve on a permanent basis. In his reply to the committee’s request, a colleague named Pavlük reported that at the time he had not been contracted by the Ministry of Labour as a special form of employment contract with the port manager. Therefore, the committee asked the Ministry of Transport and Communications, personally to the minister, to inform us and determine the matter. Therefore, yesterday we have considered the question of the national deputy Pauluk, already in connection with his personal application for parliamentary authority, and for your consideration a corresponding draft of the decree to terminate the mandate of the national deputy Paulus Mikoli Pantelmonovich in connection with his personal application. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I am betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Pauluk Mikoli Pantelmonović, elected in the one - term constituency number 137 in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Odessa Region]] Bill 7108 registration number. Please vote. [[10:32:09]] For 225 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 42, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 13, People's Party – 4, Block Timoshenko – 30, Ukrainian People's Party – 24, SPTU – 23, Social Democrats – 1, “One Ukraine” – 8, “Democratic Ukraine” – 0, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, non-fractional – 10. [[United]] Dear colleagues, calm down, calm down. Dear colleagues! Calm down! Listen, please. During the last six months, the vast majority, especially those who did not vote now, shouted out about the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. We are now giving the grounds for the accusation to return it to the Supreme Council. There's a personal statement. Who's in favour of coming back to the debate on this matter, please vote. [[10:33:40]] For 259. Copy that. I am voting on the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Pauluk Mikoli Pantelemonovich, elected in the one-maned constituency number 137 in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Odessa Region]] Bill 8108 registration number. Please vote. [[10:34:21]] For 288 Decision taken. The factions, please. Our Ukraine – 58, communists – 56, Ukrainian Regions – 24, National Party – 12, Block of Timoshenko – 38, Ukrainian People's Party – 24, Socialists – 25, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine – 16, Only Ukraine – 11, Democratic Ukraine – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 0, National Movement of Ukraine – 13, non-fractional – 11. [[united]] Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u20	Thank you. As for the statements made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] As we know, the President's decree of February 8th of this year was that he was appointed Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. On July 8, 2005, he filed a personal application to terminate his term of office. Yesterday the committee considered this issue at its meeting and made a positive decision, that is, to support this statement and for the consideration of the Supreme Council we proposed an appropriate draft decision. But yesterday, after the committee meeting, we got here. came, more faithfully, another statement from the People's Deputies of Dustenka, which is addressed to the Committee by the leadership of the Supreme Council. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the fact that I have filed with the President of Ukraine my resignation as Secretary of National Security and Defence, please.” [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me tell you! To the end, let us express ourselves!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, let's listen, then we'll have the opportunity to reveal our emotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u22	“please withdraw my application for the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian People’s Deputy.” And here we have an application in the name of the President of Ukraine for his duties, or for his discharge of the duties of Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence, registered at the Secretary of the President of Ukraine yesterday, that is, on September 7. So, dear colleagues, I think only the Supreme Council can address this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Put your hands down, you'll need them now. I see that there is a need to discuss this issue. Please sign in. Five minutes. Please, Catchure Paul. Get ready, Buttercup. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u24	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! There have been many demands in this room for each national MP to determine where he wants to work. And that's every person's right. I support this basic requirement that it should work in one place. But let's give a person the right to choose. If a person chooses to be a deputy, the choice is to be a national deputy, we have no right not to listen to his own opinion and his own choice. I understand what you want to do here, you know, make the Supreme Council a circus right now, but don't do this circus with a deputy elected in a one-man constituency constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, listen to what I have to say. Do not force the session to be closed. Let's be civilized, everyone will say, from what we're going to be shouting, "Damn!" we're not going to hear each other. Please, Lechchenko Volodymyr, follow him The Final.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u26	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovishte. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Communists warned that the team was going to power. A team of robbers came, the same as before. They did not go to do anything for the people, they went to power to do everything they had not yet done. Zinchenko and Tomenko knew who they were leading to power. Now they're running away. So Dusty and Dusty and the others are looking for options right now. They did nothing for the people; they did nothing for the people; they did evil. So in power right now, the worlds need all of them to leave this power. And power must be given to the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u27	Finally, the faction “Ukraine” followed by Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u28	Request to give the word to the People’s Deputy, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u29	Please, Alexander Stoyan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u30	Alexander Stoyan, “Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, today the faction of “Ukraine” has expressed its position on the systemic crisis in power. Therefore, we believe that those who have caused this crisis should be held accountable. Like others, we know that the mandate of MPs should be suspended immediately after they have become members of the public service. Our dear Matthew read the statement. But please tell me, are you sure this statement will be signed by the President? If there was a President's decree now, we could go to a meeting. Since there is no decree, the “Regions” party insists on voting for withdrawal, resignation as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u31	Leukko Lukyanenko, BUT Faction Karnauh Mikola is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u32	Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party “Sobor”, please pass on the word Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u33	Valentin Zubov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u34	Thank you very much, Leveko Grigoryevich. Valentin Zubov, Yuli Timoshenko bloc faction, All-Ukrainian Motherland Association. Dear colleagues! I would ask that we calm down and take a legal view of this conflict. First, yesterday, the Committee considered the application by Petra Poroshenko. Second, the Committee took a concrete decision on its statement. Thirdly, there is no order for the release of Dustenko from his post. Fourthly, yesterday, Irina Gerashchenko told the media that no personnel changes were envisaged in the National Security Council. Therefore, I think we should consider today, in the Chamber, the presentation of the Committee on the withdrawal of the authority of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u35	Please, Mikola Karnauh, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u36	Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, the honourable head of the committee! The Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies operate in space and time, and they prohibit the compatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other positions. Today, Poroshenko has had time to determine where he works, whether he is a deputy, or at the National Security Council. That's why the statement is, it's under consideration, the committee has previously prepared it for consideration by the Supreme Council. I suggest we put her to the vote. It's a law for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u37	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Be careful. Fellow dignitaries, the head of the profile committee, began his information from what he said was that a part of the national deputies had filed concerns about their dismissal from positions. This is Boyko, Stacks, Catherinechuk, Greens, and Boyko Yuri, or five national deputies. Boyko Yuri hasn't delivered yet, yes. Four people's deputies. Thus, the committee, according to their statements, said that he was moving the matter. After the polls, when the committee considered the decision, there was no similar statement. But after the committee's decision, the head informed her that she had been registered at the President's Secretariat, which had been filed in the President's name for his resignation. Then perhaps you should listen to my offer. It would be logical for us to now request a profile committee to reconsider this application. For it will be again as it was in the courts, that the courts have made decisions, and then replaced them. Now let's look at the other statements, let's give the profile committee a 15-20 minutes session, and then we'll make a decision with you. Please sign up again for five minutes. Please, Phydenka, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u38	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stanislaw Phydenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. You're feeling the reaction of the room. It is extremely negative to delay or involve the matter with Dusty in some way. Let us, dear fellows, not turn the Supreme Council into a passerby. So he wants to, so he doesn't want to. It was once written “for” that he wrote “against”. There is one law for all. We need to make a decision with you in the session room and give him the evaluation he's been given. And the committee made a decision, we need to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u39	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u40	I'm talking to everyone. Finally, it is enough to endure a constant lie. In almost nine months, children are born, and not only are people ultimately determined. A man's writing a statement. What does it matter? He can also recall her from the President's Secretariat. It's an elementary eyelash. So our faction, the faction of the SDPU(s) must immediately put questions to the vote. We already had a precedent when, on one day, he also lost his parliamentary authority. Let's keep it in shape, but that's a good reason not to drag it out now. The powder had two weeks to be determined. It lasted about a year. We no longer have the right to give so far as to play on the Constitution. But we insist that a special session be held at which the president had the resignations he was talking about to sign in the hall. This is our second insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u41	Sergey Ratushniak, faction of the People's Party. He's right behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been observing for nine months the rule of thought on the ground -- business division, the rule of law, as in this case, the fight against corruption. And that's why it's from the red "unlimited" to the orange frostbite. This power must go all the way. Leave him both a mandate and a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u43	Korz, faction of Block Tymoshenko. Karnauh Mikola is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u44	Thank you. Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”. The word is passed on to the national deputy, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u45	Microphone, please, Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u46	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, I don't know, and I don't want to explain the phone conversation you've had, and I don't think it's related to each other, but it does. If you make such a proposal, you make a reexamined proposal, then your proposal should be put to the vote. But if we don't put it to a vote, we need to put the committee's decision on Dust and determine. Our faction is clearly against any manipulation in this matter. And I just want to say that these resignations, I hope that these resignations will contribute to the normal work of the government of Yulia Timoshenko. We're for disenfranchisement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u47	Mikola Karnauh, Socialist faction. After him, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u48	Thank you. Please give the floor to a member of the Mikola Rudzikowski faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u49	Mikola Mikoli, please, Rudzkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! You see, we need to consider this in a calm environment. There are two statements made by Peter Alexiovich. At first, the statement, you remember, on the committee head, could not be considered by the committee. Finally, the secretary learned to write a statement, wrote one on the Head of the Supreme Council. So she's being considered by the committee. There's another statement. For this moment, he has two positions both of the national MPs and the heads of the National Security Council. If there is a problem, let the committee consider and determine which statement is the main one. But it would be right now to ask these two questions in sequence: and the first statement considered by the committee, and the second. Which will take on the majority and will be real in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, clarification only. I am surprised that Mikola Rudzkowski does not know the position of Dusty. Rudkowski? He's not the head, he's the Council Secretary. Please, Assadchev Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev of the Ukrainian People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich! A respected reporter and a respectable faction of Communists! If the issue is not put to the vote now, the Ukrainian People's Party will have to accuse the communists of being involved in corruption. The Constitution is one for all. We demand a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I remind you again, calm down. Dear colleagues, calm down, I hear you. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Valentin Grigorovich. Calm down. I can't hear you at all, you can understand that. So please don't worry, we'll settle this with a session hall. That's the first one. The other one. There'll be a line, I hear. Please, please, let me hear what you're saying. I can't hear you, and you can't hear yourself. Everything will be resolved by the session room, that's the first. The other one. I'd like to, come on, if we want to solve this question, not with labels, Mr. Assadchev, but with our hands, your accusations don't have to be completely solved. You're used to the fact that your authority has become corrupt and you want to push others into it. Please, Leonid Krawchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u54	Dear people's deputies, I don't really understand what the "cheese boron" is all about. For the moment, Peter Prashenko is the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, and he is in charge. There is no President's order to release him. So we have to solve the question of how a statement was made, not the last one, but the last one. And in fact, it's getting sick and tired of having a politics that has nothing to do with morality. So I'm going to put it to a vote, and I'm going to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u55	Thank you. Replica Assadchev, then Simonenko. I called him his last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u56	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Communists, I did not accuse you of anything, and I only told you that the honor of your faction is in your own hands now. On the stand is a representative of the Company. Put the question to the vote and prove that you are not involved in what the higher officials of the State are now involved in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u57	Please, Simonenka's microphone, and then Mikola Rudzikowski, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u58	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, ours, the BUTS, and the socialists, I address you. Stop speculating at your position, which is not worth breaking money! You brought all these oligarchs to power, you put them in chairs, you gave them the opportunity to dispose of government property, destroy property and much more. Today you are responsible for all those who are allegedly writing statements turning into national liars. It's humiliating, what you're doing right now. My comrades here have always advocated the position of law in principle and reported to you from the position of law. In order for the Supreme Council to make an objective decision, which Adam Ivanovich will now put to the vote. And the motorists and the nasties must now kneel before the people of Ukraine and repent of the crimes in Maidan and the policies you are pursuing.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u59	Mikola Rudzkowski, then head of the committee, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u60	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear national MPs, the many numbers that are protecting now the Dusty. I wanted to say, as it were, calmly about his actions, but you motivated me, as it were. For four or five months, Peter Alexiyovich Dorosenko exerted systematic pressure on the courts, the prosecution, the police, and other law enforcement agencies to resolve one of his financial issues. And what he said was that he didn't get any shares and he didn't get richer and he only did one thing and he thought about it. And so today he has one hope of hiding behind a parliamentary mandate so that the prosecution and the law enforcement agencies do not be held responsible for their criminal activity. That is why the question today is either to protect him from crime or to put him in charge. Thank you. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u61	Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u62	Thank you. I would like to say, my fellow Members, that Mr. Assadchev, as we know over the years in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is capable of provoking any situation in Parliament. I want to tell you, Mr. Assadchev, that I am on the Supreme Council stand as chairman of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. And I'm reporting on behalf of the committee, not as a representative or as one of the heads of the Communist faction. You can't give a real assessment of what's going on in our country. Which, first of all, your President has led to this situation that is happening every day in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, calm down. Maybe now we'll be clear. I'll make you another offer. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, let's sum up what we've been talking about. The committee considered the application yesterday. I made the right decision. After the decision was made, another statement was made. You and I had an exchange, and all those who spoke, well, almost all the factions, talked about how we should settle this with a session hall. Although I remind you once again, I remind you that this is what it is, and let's get out of this and we'll make a decision. I am voting on the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the power of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Prashenko Peter Alexiyovich, elected in the one-maned constituency number 12, Winnicki district, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Registration number 8109. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:58:51]] For 269 Decision taken. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 51, National Party – 13, Block Timoshenko – 29, Ukrainian People's Party – 22, Socialists – 23, Social Democrats – 19, “One Ukraine” – 19, “Democratic Ukraine” – 0, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 18. Please, Klukkowski's microphone, for the reasons of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Of course, waving fists after a fight is not very good, but I'm paying attention to you. With all due respect for the Constitution, I have always defended the position that reconciliation should not be, but I have always advocated equality of all when considering issues in the Supreme Council. After five deputies who filed applications but were not dismissed, the hearing was postponed. And only one is considered under the same conditions. So you've demonstrated double standards and your political engagement. I don't consider this a legal decision. And I think there's good reason for him to press charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the point is, you're right. And that's what I was talking about in the beginning. But it wasn't the Supreme Council that looked at those statements, it was the committee. And you and I are looking at the proposals that the committee gave us. So let's not blame the Supreme Council. Next candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u66	Thank you. With regard to the termination of the authority of the national MP, Tarasyuk. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Tarasyuk Ivan Grigorovich was appointed Head of State Administration by presidential decree on April 1. On July 11, this year, he filed an application for a permanent suspension of parliamentary powers. Therefore, members of our committee are invited to take a draft decree to suspend the authority of Ukraine’s national deputy, Tarasyuk Igor Grigorovich, in connection with his personal claim. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u67	Yes. Dear colleagues, there initially agreed Valentin Grigorovitch, he said to Igor Grigorovich now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u68	Ouch! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u69	Yes, please. I am voting on the Supreme Council's decision to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Tarasyuk Igor Grigorovich, elected in the one-maned constituency no. 167, the Ternopil region in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Registration number is 8110. Please vote. [[11:02:42]] For 364 Decision taken. Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u70	Thank you. As for the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Teryohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. On February 4, he was appointed Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine. I especially emphasize that. In this connection, on April 18, following the submission of the Supreme Council Committee, an application was made to the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the suspension of its terms of office by decision of the court, as he did not submit to the Supreme Council at that time. On June 29, the Kyiv Court of Appeal ruled that it met the stated requirements for the submission of the Supreme Council to the Supreme Council and terminated its mandate in time. However, on July 6th, Teryochin’s statement about the voluntary cessation of his parliamentary powers came and was registered to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On July 6, according to the application, our committee, after considering the matter, decided to leave the stated application without consideration as a result of the decision taken by the relevant Kyiv Court of Appeal to terminate the parliamentary powers. However, on July 19, Terjehochin filed an application to the same court for a review of the case in connection with the newly discovered circumstances, since when the decision was taken, he considered that the President’s decree of May 16 was not taken into account by the Court of Appeal, which dismissed him as Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine. And the point is that the name of the Ministry has been simply-just-renamed, it's now just called the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. And so on August 2nd, the same court of appeal in Kiev, I'm paying attention to you, your honorary colleagues, to Teriochin's application and canceling its previous ruling of June 29th of this year. Therefore, yesterday the committee had no choice but to consider Teryochin’s application in view of the fact that the earlier decision of the Court of Appeal had been overturned by the committee on the satisfaction of Teryochin’s claim, and an appropriate decision had been made to terminate his credentials as a national deputy in relation to a personal claim. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! That's what the head says to us, we're playing with his words about the court's decision. But let us not forget that these judges are elected by the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council is elected on short notice. It's a shame to have you, too, because we have these decisions. That's one thing. And the second. Then I want no one to blame for involvement or intentionality, sorry for Russianism, at 9 p.m. 50 minutes today, according to entry number 166689, a statement of this content has been registered: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. A statement. This letter recalls the statement made by the national deputy Teryochin from July 5, 2005. With respect, Terhochin. 7.09." And there is a signature. Yes, shall we exchange or vote? Vote? I am voting on the proposal of a committee to terminate the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Teryohin Sergio Anatoliyovich, elected in the one-maned constituency number 216 in Kiev in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Registration number 8111. [[11:08:03]] For 318 Decision taken. Factions: Our Ukraine is 9, the communists are 56. "Regions of Ukraine" - 48, National Party - 39, Block Timoshenko - 37, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, Socialists - 24, Social Democrats - 20, "One Ukraine" - 17, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 9, National Movement of Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 21. [[United]] Next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u72	As for the statement made by the People's Deputy, Toplov Viktor Semenović. On February 25 of this year, he was appointed First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine by presidential decree. On August 18th, the minister of the coal industry of Ukraine. As early as April 19, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine asked the Court of Appeal of Kiev to suspend the authority of the People’s Deputies of Topolova for a court decision in connection with his failure to submit a corresponding application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at that time. On April 27, May 17, June 1, June 29, and the ruling of the Court of Appeal on July 17 was discussed. What are they? This is the submission of the national MP Toplova to the Supreme Council for the term of office. The committee considered the application yesterday and made a proposal for the adoption of the project. More loyal decrees for the permanent cessation of the authority of the national MP, Topolovo Viktor Semenović, in connection with this personal claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u73	I am voting on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Topolovo Viktor Semenović, elected in the one - term constituency No. 115 in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. [[Luhansk Region]] Bill 8112 registration number. Please vote. [[11:11:02]] For 337 Decision taken. Next statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u74	As for the national MP, Sidorenka Mikoli Yakovic. President Mikol Yakovic Sidorenko ordered the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources on 18 August. He made an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the permanent cessation of his parliamentary powers. The committee has made an appropriate draft decision and asks for its support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, you may have drawn attention to the committee head's comments about what, indeed, man has done as required by this law and the Constitution, assigning — literally one day — two written statements. I would like the following examples to follow. I am voting on the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sidorenka Mikoli Yakovic, elected in a multi-mandatory public constituency, the electoral bloc of the political parties “Vektor Yuszczenka’s Block “Our Ukraine”, in connection with a personal application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Registration number 8113. Please vote. [[11:12:43]] For 368 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u76	Regarding the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Shevchenka Vitali Fedorovich. As we know, by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 18, he was appointed a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio, and on April 12, he was elected head of the National Council of Ukraine. But he filed an appropriate application for the appointment of deputies to the Supreme Council. Hence, since then, in violation of the requirements of the Constitution and the law on status. He's been setting up positions. In June 2005, for submission to the Supreme Council Committee, he applied to the Court of Appeal for the suspension of the terms of office of the national deputy Shevchenk by decision of the court. On July 8th, that is, after the previous session of the Supreme Council closed. Shevchenko Vitaly Fedorovich applied to the Supreme Council for a permanent suspension of his authority. And on July 18 the same Court of Appeal of Kiev adopted that the conduct of the case, in his case, should be stopped pending the adoption by the Supreme Council at the next session in September 2005 of the decision by Shevchenka Vitali Fedorovich on the timely termination of his authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, I quote from the original language, i.e. the approval of the court. Therefore, the committee, after considering yesterday's statement by the national deputy Shevchenka, made an appropriate motion for a decision to terminate its mandate on a matter of time in connection with a personal claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u77	Thank you. And there's another colossal. You remember that Vitaly Shevchenko promised in the session room as soon as we appoint him as a member of the board, he immediately makes a statement. But a group of citizens brought him into court, saying that the Supreme Council had wrongly appointed him as a member of the National Council. And he said, he said, and he filed the relevant documents, that after the completion of the trial, he would determine. On July 8, the court considered the matter, admitted that you and I had rightly appointed him as a member of the National Council, and accordingly, on July 8, he wrote a statement that we now have to satisfy with you. I am voting on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the terms of office of the Ukrainian national deputy, Shevchenka Vitalia Fedorovich, elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency by the constituency of Victor Yushchenka's constituency in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Registration number 8114. Please be supportive. [[11:16:14]] For 368 Decision taken. Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u78	And lastly, Adam Ivanovich. I apologize, my fellow Members, for allowing me to be inaccuracies when I informed you about the matter of the Ukrainian National Deputy Boyka. It refers to Yuri Anatoliyovich, who was appointed head of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morality by presidential decree as early as April this year. The committee yesterday considered this issue and did not postpone it, but made a decision on the next point. In view of the recruitment, and I would like to draw your attention to this, by taking into account the validity of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Deprivation of Persons, which combines the parliamentary mandate with other activities that we have adopted with you at the end of the previous session, in accordance with parts of the three articles of this Act, to recommend to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, in view of the lack of appropriate action by neither the President nor the Government, Prime Minister, to issue orders to block the operation of a personal e-mail card to vote on the National Deputy of Ukraine, and to stop the payment of the salaries and compensation of other expenses due to the exercise of parliamentary powers. Eight out of 14 — all present at the committee meeting — were voted against. Three, four, I beg your pardon, hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u79	Thank you. It may or may not be a decision. Although we are grateful that the committee has made such a decision, there is a rule of law that obliges the Head of the Supreme Council to act accordingly. And you just reminded the Head that you had to do that. Thank you. And please, Valentin Grigorovich, the rest of us, five of our colleagues, ask for a final definition. Let us now consider the following questions. Draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in October 2005. [[on the status and prospects for the preservation of cultural heritage]] Registration number 806. I am voting on the decision to hold the Government’s Day in October 2005 on the status and prospects of protecting the cultural heritage of Ukraine. Registration number 806. Please vote. [[11:19:29]] For 295 Decision taken. A draft Decision on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" is under consideration in November 2005. [[on the state of the art and prospects of the insurance market in Ukraine]] Registration number 7791. Author of the Dobkin initiative Mikhailo Markovich. Yes, I would like to support the proposal to hold the Government's Day in November this year on the state of the art and prospects for the development of the insurance market in Ukraine. Registration number of Bill 7791. Please vote. [[11:20:29]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, be careful. We now have a number of decisions – one, two, three, four, five on parliamentary hearings. But I want to remind you that you and I have already decided that we will have two parliamentary hearings in September, we will have two parliamentary hearings in October, we will have two parliamentary hearings in November, we will have one parliamentary hearing in December. So I suggest, let's put off these issues right now, let's consult on a consensus board, because we can't have parliamentary hearings every day. And then in the next plenary week, you and I will make the final decision on this issue. Because we're breaking up with you, and I can't put it to a vote because you and I are in violation of the proper parliamentary hearing. So, please, we're going to reconcile them, but we don't have days to do them. Come on, please. Please record three minutes. I see there are other suggestions. Please, Bondarenko Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u80	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you, I know that you are a person suffering from subjectivity, make a full announcement about the creation of a faction of the political party “Our Ukraine”. We have a license from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine with that name. We have 15 candidates. Do it today, don't pull, don't let us get into the electoral process. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u81	Volodymyr, I'm sorry that you always give a rather sharp characteristic to others. I didn't deserve that. And we agreed that after we hold the consultations, I will announce it, and today will be announced. Today after 12 o'clock, I'm going to announce your information, and in the beginning, I've announced that there's such a proposal, it's going to be made public, but let's do it for the people. Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u82	Fucking Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, as early as March, we listened to the issue at the Supreme Council about the state of affairs in the Ukrainian sugar industry. The decision is taken, but not implemented, yes. Hence, it may not be necessary to give birth to these decisions. Because when I was in the village of Kolodijskim in the Ryaw factory, yesterday was my request, it was cut out. We make one decision, and those who want to cut out our sugar factories cut out. So let's not bear fruit in these decisions, let's not discuss the issue, we need to resolve the issue at the Conciliation Council in order to have the effect of parliamentary hearings. So I propose to support your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Matvienkov Sergei, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u84	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Regrettably, dear colleagues, we cannot but note that the important issues raised at parliamentary hearings have been raised. The results of all these actions are going down very badly and it's going down because sometimes we're going to be "stupidly" on the second agenda. So I think it's the right proposal. We have two parliamentary hearings a month, and we have a clear agenda. Let the Conciliation Board determine the methodology for how we will determine whether, by way of a rating vote in the Hall, the method of negotiating with the authors of these bills that they have submitted. But I think we should not turn Parliament into some club of interest and hold some hearings that are absolutely ineffective for the work of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u85	Thank you. Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I am absolutely in solidarity with the approach that we have parliamentary hearings in this room starting to become, so to speak, a normal discussion that is not a functional burden. The essence of parliamentary hearings, however, is to a greater extent the fact that we are considering global issues. Because, with all my deep respect for the same capital of Ukraine, Kiev, when we bring the issue of urban development and the prospects for the development of the city of Kiev to the parliamentary hearings, on this subject, I reiterate once again the deep respect for the capital, that is a devaluation of the situation. And, therefore, I think that we need to be as careful as possible, and that is to say, not to raise issues that are of particular concern to the public. Therefore, logically, I am in solidarity with those who say that we need to be very careful about the situation so that parliamentary hearings do not become a situation where the essence of them, the importance, is blurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u87	Thank you for your exchange. Here we have a statement from the author of the legislative initiative on parliamentary hearings about trade unions, Mikhail Wolinz's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u88	National MP Mikhailo Wolintz, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Trade unions are representatives of the people employed and are part of the National Council for Social Partnerships with the President, which deals with the highest level of social development of the state, the economy and so forth. But in view of the massive violations of the rights of trade unions in Ukraine and of the people employed, the International Trade Union, the International Labour Organization, has come to Ukraine twice a year. In this regard, Ukraine cannot obtain trade preferences from the European Union for about 1 billion tax dollars. So I'm asking you to consider this today and include, for October, a hearing on the violation of trade union rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u89	Thank you. Michael, we're here to look at it and turn it on, but find us time to include it, or make a suggestion to cancel the previous rulings where we've already noticed and taken all the months for parliamentary hearings, that's the problem. Please Draw Side as Author
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u90	Oleg Tajnibok, head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! My proposal to hold parliamentary hearings on the recognition of Ukrainian nationalists and the Ukrainian rebel army as a belligerent party in World War II is extremely important because the subject is both in the hall and in society, and we need to discuss this in Parliament, with the participation of MPs, scientists, and representatives of the public. More than that yesterday on the profile committee, Adam Ivanovich, this issue was discussed and there is a proposal for a parliamentary hearing on this issue regarding the recognition of UN UPA as a belligerent party in World War II in January 2006, killed by January 2006 as planned, and in January there is such an offer to conduct this hearing. And I call on my fellow MPs to remove the tension from this issue, we need to discuss it and sound it, to bear the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u91	Yes, dear colleagues, in the course of communication, most of the suggestions were made that, in fact, we should advise on what is going on this year, and that one suggestion was made that one of the hearings should be transferred to January. So I'm asking your permission, I'm putting to the vote a proposal to consider the proposal to hold parliamentary hearings at the next meeting of the Conciliation Board, and then to bring it up to date in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board to the session room. Please support this proposal. [[11:29:42]] For 232 Dear colleagues, they will not escape from us. In a week, we will return to them, and some order will be given. The question was not discussed. If only it had been included in the agenda. No, this was discussed for reasons, John Alexanderovich, for reasons that were discussed. Sign up and get it. Let us go to the chapter “second reading. ” There is a bill of the Law on Mortgage Securities. Registration number 7484. A member of the Committee on Finance and Banking reports to Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich. For your consideration in the second reading procedure is a bill that in the process of working on it before the second reading changed the name and is now called “About mortgage bonds”. The Committee on Finance and Banking was set up by the Working Group, which was composed of experts from government authorities, regulators of the market in securities, banking and financial sectors, who worked very effectively and prepared for the second reading of a bill corresponding to time, is very professional, both from a legal and economic point of view, and has received a high degree of appreciation from international experts. So, according to real time, the legal basis is already in place today, because there is now a Law on Mortgage Certificates and a regulatory basis for it, the working group has proposed to change the title of the Mortgage Bond Bill. But there is a corresponding change to the structure of the chapters, but not to the ideology of the bill. This is agreed with the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill came up with 101 proposals that were carefully worked out at the working group meetings. Most of them are supported, and nine suggestions are rejected in many cases because the items or articles they have reached are already excluded from the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is requesting support for the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Securities, Registration Number 7484, second reading, and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u93	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, for working in the second reading mode. Dear colleagues, you can see who has the material in front of them, the corresponding bill. And he reported to Dmitri Volodymyrovich that the title of the law had been changed in preparation for the second reading. So I'm voting on the proposal. Who's for the law to say, "For mortgage bonds," please be sure. [[11:33:06]] Z-91 The committee's proposal is not supported. The law remains the title "for mortgage securities", as was the subject of the legislative initiative. It's number three. National MP Martinowski. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Edit the nine. National MP Taras Long. Don't insist. It's the 18th. People's deputy to the Sietch. Don't insist. 21 is the national deputy of Long Taras. Don't insist. 24 is the same, Long. Don't insist. 42 The People’s Deputy of Sithini. Don't insist. The same is true of the 46th. Don't insist. 53 — Seen. Don't insist. 59 – Martinowski. Don't insist. Yes. Would it even make it easier for me to ask you, dear colleagues, which of the authors of the initiatives is not satisfied with the committee's reaction to its amendment? Please come in. None. So we're going to assume that there is an agreement. Then I put to the vote the proposal for a profile committee on adoption in the second reading and generally as a law, the Law of Ukraine on Mortgage Securities, registration number 7484. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:35:24]] For-54 So what I'm going to do is I can't give them. Yes. The committee's asking for another. I am voting on sending the Ukrainian Law on Mortgage Securities to the second ballot again. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:36:05]] For a hundred and Not accepted. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 14, Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 22, People’s Party – 17, Block Timoshenko – 15, Ukrainian People’s Party – 11, Socialists, Social Democrats – 0, “Ukraine” – 0, “Democratic Ukraine” – 11, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 7, National Movement of Ukraine – 3, non-fractional – 0. The law is rejected, unfortunately. There's a draft of the Anti-Exporting of legal black metals, scrap metal and semi-manufacturers, registration number 7565. [[second reading]] Reports a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking of Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u94	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on finance and banking, a revised law was considered, which has already been defined, and has acquired a new name: the draft Ukrainian Law on the lifting of the ban on the export of alloyed black metals and semi-manufactured metals and their use. His registration number 7565. The bill was tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers in exchange for the former bill of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Exportation of Customs to Garbage of Black Metals. The bill did not receive any suggestions or comments from national MPs. The bill was widely discussed and reconciled among the legislators: the Ukrainian national deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, and representatives of customs and tax services, producers and operators of the metal market, and so on. And we have every reason to note that the editorial proposed for the consideration of the session hall is balanced optimal and that it takes into account the interests of the State and its owners. Thus, it should be noted that a separate observation needs to be made that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves the validity of this Law, it will take place only after Ukraine has joined the World Trade Organization. It is also appropriate to say that, within five years of its becoming effective, the export of the goods covered by this Law will be carried out by exclusively specialized metallurgical enterprises — manufacturers of such products. This thesis, I think, is pretty important to the metal industry. Moreover, it is important that the black and colored scrap metal and other related commodities mentioned in this bill are included in the regime of free trade with foreign nations. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that the bill in question, in the event that it becomes effective as the Law of Ukraine, introduces an effective mechanism, in our opinion, that will not allow the use of far-reaching schemes in this important for the economy and for the state of economic activity. In addition, combined rates of export duty offered for the establishment of a position are an important factor in preventing the understatement of customs costs, which is essential for budgetary revenues. The Committee on Finance and Banking proposes a second reading of the bill. Even if you'll excuse me, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u95	Yes, please, half a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u96	The bill, I repeat, has not received any comments or suggestions from the members of the Supreme Council. There's a technical observation from the Chief Legal Authority. Here are two comments. We suggest that they be taken into account in the final drafting of the law. Please support this bill, which is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u97	Yes, dear colleagues, there was no comment on the bill. But there are motives for voting. Please sign up and we'll vote. Yes, please, Kozachenko Alexei, Our Ukraine, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this bill, which has been presented in the Cabinet of Ministers, has been completely reworked by a committee reworked by a group of experts, and I call upon the entire room to support this bill, because it takes into account the main thing: it protects a wholly domestic producer, domestic metallurgical combinations. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u99	Please, Victor Petrov, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u100	Deputies, this law, which is now being tried on second reading, will finally destroy many of our industries. If you take the Vinnicka area, a profitable business, you buy a sugar factory for no price, it's dismantled, it's sold in scrap metal. Until the law was passed, the Sakhzad, 22 kilometers of railways were dismantled and brought to Nikolayev, loaded in steamboats. Therefore, in order to preserve our businesses, our factories, to keep them from bandits who cut them on scrap metal and deprive people of their jobs, to turn working cities and settlements into a dead zone, it cannot be accepted. We already have experience when we left. Without any control, scrap metal was exported, literally whole businesses were exported, and as a result, we were cut down today in the Vinnitz region, recognized as scrap metal, cut into 7 sugar factories. Therefore, I call upon all the deputies to make a categorical statement, not to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u101	Please, Sergei Matvienkov, “Regions of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u102	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I wanted you to remember that here in this room with you, step by step, we've been restoring the scrapping system for years, trying to resolve those issues and resenting the fact that monuments, cemetery tablets, open elevators, open-ended farms. Today, we are offered to open up the export of scrap for a miserable price. What will this give our industry to date? What will this give our economy? What are we talking about? We are talking about large industrial enterprises. We've come across large industries, we've created a clear system of exports, bullies and mammoths. I mean, that's what they do in the form of finished products. They have the opportunity to export it today. Today we are going to be forced to export the scrap again, and I stress that we do not have a raw material base for color metallurgy today. We're opening up boundaries for scrapping. For whom, for what, for what will we solve, for what problems? I think it's the only step in order to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u103	Please, the Stephen Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u104	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. This law will have a colossal impact on our metallurgical industry, it will have a negative impact on Ukraine’s environmental environment, and it will have a direct impact on a number of our industries. And this law just threatens our national security. I will never vote for such a law, and I call on the national MPs not to support it; it is harmful to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we will be determined. That's for the vote. Again, I point out that the title of the law has been changed. In the table it's called one thing, what's proposed, another. So I'm going to put it to a vote first: who's in favour of changing the name of the law, as proposed in the Comparative Table, which is the right part: “to lift the export ban on the export of alloyed black, black and semi-manufactured metals and semi-manufactured metals.” I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u106	The Committee on Finance and Banking asks that the bill be supported in a second reading. [[11:45:32]] For-41
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u107	The name of the law has not changed. So it's going to be left the way we accepted it in the first reading. Since there are no amendments, I am voting on the proposal for a profile committee on acceptance in the second reading and generally as a law: “To lift the export ban, to remove the scrap metal, to remove the scrap metal and to use it,” registration number 7565. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:46:13]] For-65 Not accepted. What's the committee's offer? For the second reading again. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u108	Please support the second draft. [[11:46:37]] For-89
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u109	For 89. The bill was rejected. Please prepare a new version, a new edition. A bill on the promotion of regional development is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 3384. Reports a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment, Philip Philipovich Budzigan. Please, Philip Philipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u110	Honourable national MPs, the purpose of the bill is to define the legal, economic and organizational principles for the implementation of State regional policy, to stimulate regional development and to overcome the depression of the territories. The bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its first reading on June 19, 03. The project envisages the introduction of a new instrument for State regulation of regional development, regional development agreements concluded between local governments and the government. In order to coordinate the interaction between the Government and local self-government authorities, the concentration of funds to address the most important problems of regional development, which are of national importance, will form joint measures that are approved by the agreement in accordance with this Act. At which point the agreement will be concluded between the two parties. The concept of joint action does not refer to shared competence. Each party will do its own thing. Each within its competence to achieve the common goals set by the State Regional Development Strategy. Regional development agreements are being implemented to coordinate the actions of executive authorities and local self-government bodies in times and areas of concern with a view to implementing the strategic tasks of regional development, increasing their responsibility for the effective use of resources aimed at addressing the socio-economic problems of any region. The agreement is a kind of instrument for the longevity and predictability of regional development relations between government and local authorities, as well as the publicity of these relations. The proposed mechanism for such agreements has long been tested in both France and Poland, with regard to regional development, allowing for an expansion of the list of regional development tools. The adoption of the bill will allow for the introduction of a new mechanism to stimulate regional development in principle. When the bill was finalized, 62 proposals were made to the committee for second reading, including a total of 46 amendments. The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at its meeting considered a draft law on the promotion of regional development prepared for the second reading and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. If there is a need to follow the articles, we can follow the articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u111	Thank you, Philip Philipovich. So let's look at the revisions. The 9th, National Deputy Masters, does not insist. Heidus 12 doesn't insist. Insomnia Boris, 17th, no. Master, 20s, no. It's a 24th hump, not an insistence. Colonies, 27, don't insist. Gorbal, 34th, no. The same thing, the 36th and the 39th, doesn't insist. Same thing, 43 colleagues of Gorbal, I can't see. The insistence of Dobkin Mikhailo, 50, does not insist. The Colonies, 51st, don't insist. Master, 54th, no. 55th Humpple, no. The master, 58, does not insist. All, as it were, who made the proposals do not insist. Let's be clear. For the reasons of the vote, please, Onitchuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u112	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, for your word. My dear friends, on behalf of the faction, I would like to call for support for this bill, especially in view of the fact that it is adopted before the formation of the State Budget for the following year. And if the law becomes effective, it will enable the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament to determine inter-budget transfers to take into account the nature of the depressed territories and provide appropriate support. Today, there is no legal basis for increasing the appropriate allocations for the development of production in these areas, we have no support for small business. It therefore seems that the decision to support this bill will now be in favour of the country and its development, the budgetary process and, above all, the development of depressed territories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u113	Thank you. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading and generally as a law of the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development. Bill 3384. Let's support each other. This is one of our most painful problems. Vote. “Regions”, more friendly, this is about regions. [[11:52:46]] For 219 The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 18, Communists – 50, “Regions of Ukraine” – 11, People's Party – 15, Block Timoshenko – 31, Ukrainian People's Party – 20, Socialist – 24, Social Democrats – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 3, “Democratic Ukraine” – 15, industrialists and entrepreneurs – 14, People's Movement of Ukraine – 11, non-fractional – 7. [[United]] Please, head of the Gurenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u114	Gurenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to focus. I realize that we have all our passions now shaken up, but it's really a law that aims at finally making our region a little bit easier, opening the door to economic and socio-economic development. It's not universal, of course, but it's designed to make the development of the regions in the same direction that our electorates demand of us today. There's a lot of questions there. I ask, Adam Ivanovich, to put to the vote the question of voting on this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, really, we're a little relaxed. It goes, everyone understands that we are always with you, especially when we accept the budget, we talk about it, and each one of us, regardless of how he is chosen, whether he is in a major district or elected by political parties, still represents a region in Parliament and is constantly concerned about him. Let's give this a legitimate basis. I'm proposing a bill. Please be supportive. [[11:55:01]] For 311 Thank you. I am betting on a second-reading vote as a whole as a law of the Law on Promoting Regional Development. Registration number 3484. It's as friendly as the previous vote. Please, 3384. Oh, I'm sorry. It's on the board. [[11:55:35]] For 306 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Supplementing Article 57 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is under consideration. [[on responsibility in the field of drug use]] [[second reading]] Registration number 4183. Reports the Secretary of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Solomatin Yuri Petrovich. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster presents a second draft of the Ukrainian Law on Supplementing Article 57 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Responsibilities of Economic Activities Subjects in the Field of Use, Registration No. 4183, of September 22, 2003, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The legal framework for this bill is the legal relationship between the State and the business subjects working in the field of drug abuse, including natural persons. Ukraine’s Nadra Code provides for the possibility of halting, restricting, and temporarily banning the use of the nadra if the conditions for a special license are allowed. In accordance with this article of the 65th Code, it is also provided that violations of the nadra legislation will entail responsibility, including administrative responsibility, in accordance with Ukraine's legislation. Infringement of Nadra legislation has also resulted in the arbitrary extraction of beneficial fossils. Ukraine’s administrative code does not provide for direct and adequate responsibility for the violation of licenses and the arbitrary extraction of useful fossils. The imposition of fines up to 14 non-taxed minimums, i.e. 238 bracelets, is provided by this code for failure to comply with the rules of protection of nadr -- just a ridiculous amount of damage to the state by non-fair entrepreneurs and individual citizens. Ukraine’s Administrative Code, article 164, provides for penalties for doing business without a special license in the form of a fine of up to five untaxed minimum citizens’ income. That is, for the arbitrary mining of useful fossils, fine up to 80 dollars, and it's paid with pleasure. In recent times, mining and mining have become commonplace. The special feature of this bill is that it reinforces the administrative responsibility of the designated subjects, including individuals. The committee supported the proposal of National Deputy Carmazin and mine that the violation of the special terms of the special permit and the licence for use of overtime, if this is not related to receiving large - scale incomes, entails imposing a fine on officials and individuals from 10 to 100 untaxed citizens. And instead of the norm of “illegal mining” it is proposed to write down the rule: “voluntary use.”
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u117	Yuri Petrovich, thank you. We know you know how to talk and report, but this is second reading, I repeat, second reading. There's two sentences, and you're talking. All proposals for this law are included. So I'm putting a profile committee to a vote. Concerning the adoption, in the second reading and in general, of the Law “On Supplementing Article 57 of the Code on Administrative Offences” on Responsibilities in the Field of Drug Use”, registration number 4183. Yuri Petrovich was a flaming defender of this law. Let's support him as well. Please vote. [[12:00:20]] For 295 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a 30-minute break in the pen, up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Be strong because we have a lot of work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the situation is interesting, but we need to work. Everything will soon be known. I can't inform because I haven't seen the official signed decree. Let us say by the words of the poet: “And he is doing his work for us” - let us adopt the laws. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Unification of Citizens is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 3263. Report to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Vladislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, in this bill, which was initiated in due course by the national deputy Shevchenk, the committee has considered all the amendments and the situation is next today. The committee received 20 comments and proposals from legislators, including 11 in part 1, 8 rejected. The bill is in fact brought into line with valid legislation, primarily with the law on political parties, the state registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs, which refers to parts of the terms of consideration of the application for registration of a local universal and international public organization, as well as the time-limits of the application for registration or refusal. This is what we have been called upon to make a number of amendments that have been taken into account by the committee. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no comments on the bill and believes that it can be accepted in second reading and in general as a law. The only thing I would like to add is that, in fact, the amendments that were made to this bill were accepted by the committee and the Chief Legal Authority supported us that those amendments that apply to other legislative acts, namely: taxation legislation, legislation that regulates the same terms, but in other legislative acts should be brought to the same standard. So this was carried out by the committee and today's bill is in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee said: Hellhound 7 does not insist, Kukob 8 does not insist, Hara 10 does not insist, Hellhound 11 does not, Hara 13, Hara 14, Hubic 17 does not insist, and Puzakov does not insist. So we have a reason, I ask you to mobilize, your honourable colleagues, with you to vote on the adoption of the second reading as a whole as a law of the Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the Unification of Citizens. Registration number 3263. Please vote. [[12:38:03]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Our Ukraine – 37, communist – 37, Ukrainian regions – 13, People's Party – 11, Block Timoshenko – 0, Ukrainian People's Party – 1, Socialists – 6, Social Democrats – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 6, Democratic Ukraine – 14, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs – 7, People's Movement of Ukraine – 14, Postfraction – 4. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the deputies into the hall. Clearly, there is no physical matter. As long as they come in, please ask colleagues from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko to take part in the vote. In fact, as long as citizens are united, so on and so forth. You know, right now you're colliding, you're registering at a State-owned community organization, including political parties, religious associations, and there's this "Property Form" thing. And there are two in the Property Form in the Constitution: State and private. And they're asking, here come the representatives of one political party or another -- write the form of ownership. What is their form of ownership? Collective. But there is no such thing in the Constitution. Then take private property. That is, we may need to make an appropriate change to the law on how to deal with the issue of unification. Ready to vote? I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, the law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens, registration number 3263. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:40:09]] For 267 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on State aid to children]] Registration number is 5744. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak reports. Please. She reports on the first reading and reports on the second from the committee. Please, on the basis of the vote. Yes. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Leonid Mikhailovich! In the state, I'm sorry, the mess is enough. So let's think about it this way: Victor Lavrentiovich will report, and I'll give you one minute to vote. He has no right to give you the word because he speaks from the committee. He was assigned by the committee to speak. Leonid Mikhailovich. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich. Leonid Mikhailovich, I'll give you a chance before the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! I'll remind you that this bill foresees the establishment of state aid to children, temporary assistance to children who do not have children at this time, or are deprived of parental care. Eight proposals were proposed before the bill. It's small in size, almost all counted, two in part. And the only thing I'm paying attention to is that we've changed the deadline for entry into force since January 1st, 2006 to take the necessary budget costs into account for the maintenance of these children. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Victor Lavrentiovich of the Committee reported that all proposals were taken into account. So we have a reason to vote. Please, one minute of the vote is Chernewicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I'm asking you to focus. It is about how all democracies work, including socialist, communist and bourgeois, whatever. It's a simple law. If the poor dad doesn't pay alimony, he makes children, so that mom doesn't suffer, these alimony pay the state, and then he submits to the executive. And the executive department is chasing this dad and taking back the money. There's no problem here. Because we have many mothers who need help from their fathers who have long forgotten them, yes, and are making new ones. That's good. But all we have to do is pay. That's not right. Please. This is the Christian Liberal Party, Leonid Chernovecki, supporting this bill, you will support the mothers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u124	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Let's strike together by a positive vote under the law of Chernobyl. I'm betting on the second reading vote and, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, registration number 5744. [[on State aid to children]] We have a friendly vote. [[12:44:33]] For 284 The law is passed. We'll expect it to work. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, registration number 4201. [[on Intactness]] [[second reading]] Report from the profile committee, Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Assadchev. The bill is aimed at restoring the MP's in touch with the local council members by regulating the procedure for deciding whether to bring a member of the local council to criminal responsibility, as well as his arrest, as well as the administration of the council. In conclusion, the Chief Legal Authority of the year 18.04 suggests rejecting a bill such as one that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its consideration of the Act amending the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils, in the second reading, to be adopted as a whole. All the amendments are taken into account, only the amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers has been rejected, which shows that the draft law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. This amendment is rejected. The committee suggests that we take into account the situation that is currently taking place with members of the local councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u126	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, really, you and I have been talking about this problem for a long time. And I think the authors here have developed a pretty good bill in what sense? Yes, there is a fear that, indeed, appropriate counsel may not give such consent. There's corporate and so on and so forth. But the law suggests a wise mechanism: If the council does not agree to bring the deputy to justice, the Supreme Council gives such consent to the Attorney General. And I think there will always be wise decisions here. Therefore, I propose to vote on the adoption in the second reading and in general as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils on Inviolability. Let's be friendly with our colleagues. [[12:47:36]] For 213 According to factions: "Our Ukraine" – 8, Communists –55, "Regions of Ukraine" -40, People's Party – 28, Block Timoshenko – 6, Ukrainian People's Party – 5, Socialists – 24, Social Democrats – 0, "One Ukraine" – 5, "Democratic Ukraine" – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 1, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again, focus on what this is all about. The point is that if the relevant council does not agree to bring its colleague to justice, then the Supreme Council, at the request of the Attorney General, has the right to establish justice under this Act. I think it's the right law. Who for returning to the vote of this law, please vote. [[12:48:49]] For 251 We're back. I put to the vote the second reading and generally the Law on the Status of Deputies. amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. [[on Intactness]] Registration number 4201. Vote. [[12:49:26]] For 270. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 4, Communists – 55, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 48, People’s Party – 35, Block Timoshenko – 34, Ukrainian People’s Party – 11, Socialists – 25, Social Democrats – 0, “Ukraine” – 11, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 12, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 16. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your understanding. There is a draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Publishing Act. [[concerning the Bookroom]] [[second reading]] Registration number 608. The chairman of the committee, Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate! BUT, take your seats, please. We're not going to solve all the problems right now. Let's solve any problem so that our libraries can get one copy from the bookstore to make sure it's in the law. Last time we adopted this law, we adopted it with 302 votes in the first reading. I'm asking you very much to support these amendments, it wasn't practical here, we've taken it all into account. The only one, we added, is the “State Science Institution. ” The word “scientific” was added because we had scientific institutions in a worse case. And one more thing. Our first option was to send these books to both the district and the city. We took the word “city” off, because it's another 12,000 copies and it's going to be very difficult to control. We are obliged by the district authorities to do so for our own, as it were, to send these copies to cities, and the district authorities are already receiving it from us. I'm asking you very much to support this. Society of SDPU(s)! You're intelligent! Let's support it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues. No questions asked, for this is the second reading. No questions asked, for this is the second reading. Dear colleagues, well, I think it's perfectly understandable. We need people to read books. I would like to vote on the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law of the Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Publishing, registration No. 6008. [[concerning the bookroom]] We have a friendly vote. [[12:52:23]] For 314 The law is passed. The question is: a draft law amending certain Ukrainian privatization laws, registration number 6009, second reading. [[on criteria for defining strategic objects]] Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u129	The draft law was introduced, registration No. 609 was introduced by the People's Deputy of Seminouk, and was adopted on first reading in February 2005. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and Privatization of Small State Enterprises, i.e., Small Privatization. These changes are aimed at prohibiting the privatization of facilities that are of general strategic importance to the economy and security of the State and at further improving the way privatization is carried out, including in relation to the recognition that it has lost effect, the Ukrainian Business Act. Five amendments were made to the second reading, two of which were rejected: the amendment of the Semenyuk People's Deputy. [[Taras!]] Amendment rejected for the following reason, amendment number 3. The Committee finds it inappropriate to limit the right of a State, privatization bodies, in particular to the fact that those bodies may be founding fathers of State enterprises only on condition that 50 per cent plus one share should belong to the State. This is a violation of the right of the State. Similarly, the Committee does not support amendment No. 4 of the Sharov Chamber, since the Committee believes that the privatization initiative should be based solely on the State, in particular, on the State's privatization bodies, on the establishment of a public privatization programme. No comments were received from the Legal Office. The Committee invites the Supreme Council to support the preparations. Second reading of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Is Sharov's national deputy not insisting on his right hand? Don't insist. Then I put to the vote the second reading and, in general, the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization as regards the criteria for defining strategic objects. Registration number 609. Please vote. [[12:55:26]] For 241 Copy that. In general, we voted as law. In general, they voted as law. Dear colleagues! It is said that all that you are talking about is through the electronic media channels: the government has sent a resignation, and our recent colleague, Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, has been appointed to serve as Prime Minister. The draft Act on Amendments to the Act on Concessions is under consideration. [[on socio-cultural objects]] [[second reading]] Registration number 7153. Reports the Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Economy, Property, and Investments of Matthew Vladimir Josephovich. Vladimir Josephovich, take care of the papers. Dear colleagues, in this bill all the proposals, and there were two of them, are included. I put to the vote a proposal for a profile committee to adopt in a second reading as a whole, as a law, the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. [[on socio-cultural objects]] Please vote. [[12:57:28]] For 228 Thank you, the law has been passed. A draft law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is being complied with. [[second reading]] Registration number 7364. Mike will report from the Committee. Who, Stanislav Ivanovich? So now from the profile committee, the first deputy of Demyochin's approach, and then let's move it for a few minutes, and then we'll look at the next one. Let's make it okay. In the “test” is stuck, Demöchin will come and we will then consider this Law. Next draft of the Law on the Organization of Production and Management of Chemical Power Sources. Registration number 5030-d, second reading. Head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Majo Vitaly Ivanovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u131	Now, one minute. The law was studied by the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, 179 comments were made to the law, most of which are partially taken into account, there is agreement with those who made proposals, remarks that they would not insist on their comments. Please accept the law in the second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u132	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Still, Zimen doesn't insist, Chechel doesn't insist. The steel - 31 does not insist. It's mostly here. Winter and the Steel Corrections, I see they don't insist. Other national MPs who have filed a complaint are not included.? No, there isn't. That is why I am voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as the law of the law on the organization of production and treatment of chemical sources of electricity. Registration number 5030-D, please vote. [[13:00:19]] For 236 The law is passed. The Wood Export Regulation Bill is being complied with. [[second reading]] Registration number 3590. Reporting by Vitaly Ivanovich Majko, head of the Committee's Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u133	Mother, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. This is a law prohibiting the diversion of valuable species of trees. It refers to a very small list of wood, but this law allows for the preservation of valuable crops in Ukraine. I think this needs to be supported because there are no industrial obstacles, it only preserves what has not yet been destroyed in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. All notes are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u134	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you know we've talked about our Carpathians and what we're doing to them. There is now a legislative possibility to resolve this. Let us support the proposal in a friendly manner and accept in the second reading as a whole the Act on Regulation of Exports of Wood. Registration number 3590. Please vote. [[13:01:58]] For 247 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Order of Decisions on the Placement of Designing of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, which are of national importance, is being followed. Registration number 5336. From the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinović. Yeah, who's from the committee, head of the committee where? Yes, dear colleagues, beware of the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 32, 35, 36. These are all proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers. You know, nobody's standing up for them now, and they're not insisting, and 22 people's MP Bronnikov's rights. And the rest is accounted for. We can vote. I am voting for adoption in second reading as a whole as a law, the Law “On the Order of Decisions on the Placement of Designing of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes of Public Interest. Vote. Registration number is 5336. Please be supportive. [[13:04:07]] For 217 According to factions: “Our Ukraine” – 0, Communists – 43, “Regions of Ukraine” – 39, People's Party – 26, Block Timoshenko – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 9, Socialists – 25, Social Democrats – 4, “One Ukraine” – 7, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, “Industry and Entrepreneurs” – 11, “National Movement of Ukraine” – 0, non-fractional – 9. [[United]] Who wants to go back to voting on this bill? Hurry up, please. Vote. [[13:04:59]] For 258. We're back. I am voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as the law of the Law on the Order of Decisions, on the Location, Design of Construction of Nuclear Installations and Objects for the Management of Radioactive Wastes, which are of general significance. Registration number is 5336. Please vote. [[13:05:36]] For 266 The law is passed. Thank you. A reporter appeared. We are therefore considering the Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Registration number is 7364. First Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee for the Management of National Households and Investments, Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! To your attention, a second reading of the law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine is presented. It's a very important law. We have been living for many years without a fundamental instrument to regulate the activities of the State Property Fund. It's not the first time we've seen him with you. And this is where the committee has been doing a lot of work today. We agreed on a second reading with the Holding Foundation. The bill is provided by the principal legal office without any comment. The bill is recommended by the principal legal office to adopt, on second reading and generally as a law. A total of 124 amendments were received when reviewing the preparation of the law for second reading. A total of 103 amendments have been taken into account, in part, in editorial terms. Declined — 21. With regard to the rejected amendments - 5, the amendments of the People's Demehina People's Demehina, i.e. mine. And one amendment to the People's Deputy, Sergienko Leonid Grigorievich, two amendments to the People's Deputies of Moroz, Shibko, one of the People's Chamber of Clouds. Four amendments of the People's Deputies of Fix, Lukanenko, Kirichenko were rejected. In addition, we received three additional amendments from the People's Deputy Rudenko. Two of them are accounted for. One overruled. I propose that, with respect to the people's deputies, this bill be adopted on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the committee we heard the report by Vladimir Anatoliovich. Let's take a look at the amendments. Demyochin said that he did not insist on his amendments. Sergeyenko, 41st? Don't insist. The frost and the others, 51st? Don't insist. The cloud, 72nd? Don't insist. Fix, 86th. Don't you insist? How Can I Help You? 8 / 8 Don't insist. 88. Kirichenko. Don't insist. Fix. 96. Lukyanenko, 97 Kirichenko, 98. Don't insist. Demyochin does not insist. Fix, 116. Lukyanenko, 117. Kirichenko, 118. Don't insist. Thus, no one insists on national MPs. Dear colleagues! We can adopt a law with you in the second reading and in general as a law that regulates the activities of one of the most important state institutions. Unfortunately, we all work without laws so far: both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, we have the Rules, not yet the law. Come on, let's vote. I would like to vote on the second reading and, in general, as a law, the Law on the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:10:03]] For 278 The law is passed. We'll expect the President to sign it and we'll have a legal foundation. The factions, please. “Our Ukraine” – 49, Communists – 0, “Ukraine’s Regions” – 45, People’s Party – 38, Block Timoshenko – 3, Ukrainian People’s Party – 17, Socialist – 25, Social Democrats – 20, “Ukraine” – 19, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 14, non-fractional – 16. A draft Roads Act is under consideration. [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and the Liaison of Klimpus Oreste Dmitrovich. Please, Oreste Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u137	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Your view is on the draft Roads Act in Ukraine, prepared for second reading in accordance with the Supreme Council’s decree of November 4, 2004. These are the suggestions made by the National Deputies, expressed during the discussion and after preparing for the second reading. World experience shows that it is from the development of automobiles that the way out of the car crisis, from the economic crisis of many countries, that is why the Law is very important to us today. 63 comments and suggestions that have come to the law show great interest on the part of the deputies. Forty proposals are included in the preparation, and 24 are rejected. Important, important amendments apply to public authorities for the administration of public roads, their responsibilities, such as the development of a State strategy for the development, financing, and implementation of road infrastructures, as well as the specification of requirements for other owners and road managers. For the first time, it is legislatively stipulated that road sections passing through populated areas are cared for by the State Highway Service in cases where they are part of a common road network. Our committee considered the matter. Suggests the Ukrainian Roads Act to be adopted in the second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u138	Thank you. Orestes Dmitrovitch, is there a road in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u140	Yes. And we, you see, built the pay and refused. So, then, should the law not do so?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u141	The fact is that this law makes it very clear that all the requirements and responsibilities for the operation of such pay routes are laid down. Really. There's a precedent today, and it's happening today. This is one of the circumstances that has forced us to keep on predicting it. But the very strict requirements are that only a separate law can be used as a means of payment. I emphasize a separate law that is passed by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u142	Yes, please, let's go to the repairs. Yes, Gorbachev, friend. Don't insist. It's him, it's him, it's him, it's him, it's him, it's They don't insist anymore. Garbatov, 14, 15. Yes, one of the national deputies has applied and insists on it. Please, Sirenka's microphone. Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, here's my amendment that says that chapter 5 should be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u144	What's the readout number? Vasil Fedorovich, number number?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u145	50. It's a 50 number.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u146	Fifty lacquers. Look, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u147	There we had a little agreement with our colleagues, and in part they agreed to consider article 26 that the owners of private areas where there are highways owned by these roads. If that's the case, then I'll take it off. If that's what you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u148	It counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u149	Yeah, that's 50 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u150	It's just included in the next edition. “Owners of private areas where the roads belonging to them are located.” It's not the same thing, it's editorial. Just like we agreed with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u151	Yeah, okay. And please, your turn 54, Vasil Fedorovich. Turn on Sirenka's microphone. 54, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u152	54 “Delete Section 6”. Why? For two reasons. First of all, in a cold country, road pay is nonsensus at all, and on the other hand, it says that this chapter is regulated, this relationship is regulated by a special law. Hence, there is no need to regulate these relationships in this law. I insist: this section is deleted – about pay roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u153	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u154	On this point, I think Vasil Fedorovich agreed during the discussion -- he doesn't exactly say right now -- he agreed that article 27, where all of this is determined, should be. Vasil Fedorovich continues to insist that other articles, such as the 28th and 29th, be deleted. But article 27th, it's a definite one, and that's why this chapter can't be defined. This is an objective reality, a paid road. They are provided for in the law as an option. It is clearly stated that the shift of road traffic to general use and to individual areas, including bridge crossings, takes place in line with the national strategy for the development of Ukraine’s road network on the basis of a separate law. This is the first thesis. The second thesis, which is very important, is that the submission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the introduction of the road to general pay is made by the State Road Administration, in agreement with the local self-government authorities, in whose areas such a road is passing. And third, what's very important is that cars are only considered to be payloads if they are substantially improved and alternatively provided by free highways. This is a European-wide world standard. Such a standard exists in the legislation of all other countries, and today recognition is very necessary, it is civilized, it is modern, and it is very correct. So I'm going to propose to Vasil Fedorovich, or I'm going to drop the pressure, or I'm going to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u155	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on the 54th amendment of the People's Deputy Sirenka: the exclusion of chapter six, which deals with car fares. Please vote. Vote. [[13:18:41]] For 148 Not accepted. Yes, who else insists on editing? It doesn't. Then, in view of our discussion, I put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and generally as a law, the law on road traffic. Registration number 2023-d. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u156	I ask you to vote in favour. [[13:19:20]] For 227
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u157	The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Laws is being complied with in order to eliminate double certification of food, food, and food products. Registration number 3545. [[second reading]] The head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u158	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, is an exclusively harmonized bill that provides for some changes to legislative acts that regulate food safety. Today the issue of certification is provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers decree, the Cabinet of Ministers decree on standardization, certification, the Ukrainian Food Quality and Safety Act, the Ukrainian legislation on State regulation of imports of agricultural products. These standards do not agree with each other; they differ. And this leads to our companies, importing raw materials into Ukraine, conducting certification by producing a food product, being forced to do certification again. It's not justified, it's not medical, it's probably economic. That's why the bill is designed to eliminate the contradictions that are so that there can be no duplication. The committee will consider these bills, ask for support, vote in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u159	Thank you. Yes, edits, please. Bondarenko. No, Yukhnovsky Oleg, number ten. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Bondarenko, 19, don't you think? Don't insist. And Yukhnowsky Oleg, 20th. Don't insist. Then I put to the vote on adoption in the second reading and in general as a law of the Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine with the aim of eliminating double certification of food products. Registration number 3545. Please vote. [[13:21:55]] For 221 Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for a vote on this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, it's not a political document, it's purely technical. [[13:22:27]] For 288 It's settled. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading as a whole and as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Farming. [[about the state support of the newly created.]] Excuse me. It's me. The bill amending Ukraine’s laws to remove double certification of food products, registration number 3545, is on the vote. Vote. [[13:23:13]] For 329 Copy that. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Farming. [[on State support for new farms]] [[second reading]] Registration number 7455. The head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Ivan Fedorovich Tomic, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The committee proposes to your consideration of the second reading and the first reading of 338 votes adopted on May 31, 2005 by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Farming. The committee reviewed all proposals made by law enforcement entities that had reached the bill. That's three suggestions that are included and in the table are, dear colleagues, you see. The essence of the bill is to empower all farmers to receive aid from government and local budgets, including through the Ukrainian State Fund for Farm Support, not just for newly created and separated gardens, as was the case in the previous edition. Dear colleagues, prior to the eighth session, meetings took place in all regions, direct congregations with Ukrainian farmers. Decisions have been taken unanimously to support and request the national deputies of the bill. I'm asking you to support the draft in second reading and in general. There's a reference by the Legal Authority to article 11. That's why I'm going to read article 11. [[for the stenogram]] “The use of the Ukrainian National Fund for Farming Support funds from the Ukrainian State Fund for Farm Support is provided to newly created farms and farms with separate gardens on a non-returnal basis and on competitive grounds on a return basis, while other farms are supported only on a return basis, and is aimed at providing guarantees, guarantees and guarantees for lending to farm banks.” So all the suggestions are taken into account. I ask you once again to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u162	Yes, thank you, Ivan Fedorovich. All offers are included. We are voting in favour of the adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a law of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Farming. [[on State support for new farms]] Registration number 7455. Please vote. [[13:26:38]] For 317 The law is passed. The Animal Protection Act is being followed. I really don't understand why there are two bills here, are they united? Yeah? Registration number 3175, 3175-1. Now, the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich, will explain. Does anyone from the committee report? Rudenko. Who from the committee can report this bill? Yes, respectable colleagues, they are united two numbers, but they are united, that is, the table we have. It's the only chart. We'll see about that. Yes, absolutely correct. At least, dear colleagues, I didn't find it. No, no, there's one thing. That's not what you're looking at, the unaccounted for, the 325th People's Deputy, and the Loboda. Don't they insist? Don't insist. And the 326th. Everything else seems to be counted. Nobody insists? Then we vote on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of a unified bill under the laws of 3175, 3175-1 of the Law on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, Second Reading, and generally as a Law. Please vote. [[13:29:22]] For 252 Animals are protected by law from harsh behavior. A draft Act on the Equal Rights of Women and Men and Equal Opportunities for their Implementation is under consideration. [[second reading]] Registration number 6074-1. Reported the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Hennady Josephovich Udovenko. Please, Gennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Equal Rights of Women and Men and Equal Opportunities for their Implementation, submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Samuelk and Nadragah, is being submitted for your second reading. I want to remind you that on January 11, this year, it was voted in the first reading by almost a constitutional majority. He was supported by 289 national deputies. Subjects to the legislative initiative to the bill were given 90 suggestions, the vast majority of which were counted, 49 of which were counted, 10 in part, 11 in editorial form, and only - 10 proposals were rejected. This bill is compromise, it is not revolutionary, and it does not bring about radical changes in the state with regard to the introduction of tender equality. It does not contain norms for the introduction of gender quotas in electoral lists. So don't worry, the co-authors took this position. But it opens the way to developing democracy and building a society of equal opportunities. I would like to point out that by the time it was adopted, parliament had been going on for six years, and similar laws had been passed in many of our neighboring countries. I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine, in his letter to the Supreme Council on March 15th this year, requested that the bill be expedited. He was in line for the last week of the seventh session, but because of the battalions around the entrance to the WTO, the queue did not reach him. On July 26th of this year, the President of Ukraine, without waiting and expecting Parliament to consider our bill, issued a decree to improve the work of the central and local executive authorities to ensure the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, which, by its content, introduces part of the rules of our bill and thus removes a number of observations from the Legal Authority. It's very important, because law enforcement has made a lot of proposals, but now they're off. The committee approved recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the draft Law on the Promotion of Equal Rights for Women and Men and their Equal Opportunities for Second Reading and Overall, as the Law. I'm addressing you once again, dear colleagues, especially the male part of the Supreme Council. Make your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have over 300 men in Parliament, few women, few and very few. Let's give them a present. We vote on the adoption as a whole as a law, the Act on the Promotion of Equal Rights for Women and Men and Equal Opportunities for their Implementation. They've protected the animals, let's protect the women. Vote. [[13:34:05]] For-286 The law is passed. Let's get to it. The law is passed, the law is passed! I repeat, the law has been passed. Let's move on to the re-examination section with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Here we have the Minister of Justice to report, and he's on his way. The Ministry of Coal Industry on the spot? Please listen to the Ukrainian Law on Change to Article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law, with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 05.06.2003. Registration number 1197. Report to the Deputy Minister of Coal Industry, Korzun Anatoly Vasilovich, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and present. Article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law provides for the release of persons who have the right to free coal for their household needs but live in buildings that are centrally heated for utilities to pay for the consumption of electricity and gas at the expense of coal-processing enterprises that list these costs for the needs listed in the local budget. But this position of the mining law of Ukraine did not work because of the complexity of the calculations between businesses and local governments, and even for those enterprises that have the financial capacity to do so. The Ukrainian Supreme Council passed on May 15, 2003, a law amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law stipulates that those who have the right to receive coal for their domestic needs but live in central heating houses receive compensation for the payment of electricity and gas paid. Employees of coal and coal-based enterprises, at the expense of the costs of the enterprises, with the allocation of these costs to the cost of production; pensioners and other persons who are entitled to a subsidy from the State Budget to local budgets. Due to the possibility of significant additional expenditure from the State Budget, the President of Ukraine imposed a veto on this law and, by letter of June 6, 2003, made proposals to the Ukrainian Act amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law, which he proposed the next edition of the Act. “Those who are entitled to free coal mining but live in central heating houses, coal-processing enterprises and coal-based enterprises pay cash compensation in terms of terms and sizes determined by the collective agreement.” Taking into account the government's positive view of the proposed Ministry's proposed revision, the proposal by the President of Ukraine to amend article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law is more acceptable and requests support for the Ukrainian Act amending article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Law with proposals by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u166	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee head of the Committee on Fuel Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Viktor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The amendment to article 43 of the Mining Act, which should allow the relevant categories of citizens to provide a simplified procedure for the provision of benefits in the calculation of utilities for the payment of electricity and gas consumed, is considered. The Supreme Council adopted and voted 280 deputies in May 2003. But the President, who was, vetoed it. Our committee has considered the bill tabled and proposes that article 43, part 8, of the Mining Act should be amended to read as follows: persons entitled to free coal production are entitled to housing, but those living in central heating houses receive compensation for the payment of gas electricity paid to employees of the coal mining and processing plant and enterprises with the funds of the enterprises, with the allocation of these funds to the cost of the products referred to in paragraphs 3, 5 and part 7 of this article by way of a subsidy from the State budget to local budgets. This law shall enter into force as from January 2006. And today, the committee invites you, colleagues, to overcome the President's veto. And I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u168	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we will vote. The first one will be a vote on the proposal of the National MP Zviagiliski on the non-admissibility of the law. Please make up your mind. [[13:39:34]] For-25 Not accepted. Next comes the President's proposal. Presidential proposal of June 5, 2003. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:40:06]] For-50 Not accepted. The proposal for a pro-vote committee to pass the veto on the Ukrainian Act to amend article 42 of the Ukrainian Mining Law, registration number 1197. Please be kind enough to support this offer. Vote. [[13:40:43]] For 249 Not accepted. The factions. “Our Ukraine” – 4, Communists – 56, “Regions of Ukraine” – 50, People's Party – 34, Block Timoshenko – 39, Ukrainian People's Party – 0, Socialist – 25, Social Democrats – 0, “Only Ukraine” – 0, “Democratic Ukraine” – 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs – 13, National Movement of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 9. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that the veto on this bill has been signed by today's President-in-Office. Well, no, then, no. Who's to go back to the veto vote, please vote. [[13:41:51]] For 226 We're back. I am voting on the president's veto for the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Code, registration number 1197. Please vote. [[13:42:22]] For 287 The law is rejected. Let's do it wisely. We're going to ask the profile committee to prepare a new bill quickly. We'll take 226 votes and send it to the new president for signature. And he'll sign it. Roman Mikhailovich showed up. The Ukrainian Law “On the Prevention of Violations of Ukrainian Legislation in Privatization of Petroleum Gas Complex Enterprises” with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 18 August 1998, registration number 0922. Justice Minister Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's Law “On Preventing Violations of Ukrainian Legislation During Privatisation of Petroleum Gas Complex Enterprises” was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 24 July 1998. The president of Ukraine did not sign the prescribed law and suggested that it be repealed because of the inadequacy of this Ukrainian law. Ukraine’s Prevention Act continues to prohibit the following. The State Property Fund of Ukraine to transfer to the statutory fund of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine shares that belong to the State in the open oil and gas companies. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Fund of State on the State Committee of Ukraine, also to other state structures to take appropriate action on the privatization line of these enterprises, which are of national importance. The whole is a series of other actions that are prohibited by the State authorities, primarily the Holding Fund, in connection with privatization or the definition of ownership of property. However, part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine states that the authorities of the State must act only on the basis, within the limits of their powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine limits the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in matters of ownership only by approving the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the definition of the legal principles for the removal of private property rights, and the definition of the legal regime of property, namely, part one, part one, part two, part two, part one, paragraph seven, of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The law in question prohibits the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, other executive authorities, from exercising their constitutional powers over public property. It does not contain rules aimed at determining the legal regime of property that can only be established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the President of Ukraine notes that the implementation of the Act will also have negative economic effects that will primarily affect the effectiveness of the operation and development of the oil and gas complex. On the basis of the above, the law that we are currently considering, not signed by the President of Ukraine and in accordance with his proposals to the Supreme Council in the veto order, is subject to repealing articles 19, 85, 92, 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u170	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. The profile committee is Mikola Rudzkowski. None. But the profile committee's opinion coincides with the president's proposal to repeal the bill. I therefore put to the vote and ask for the support of the proposal of the President of Ukraine and the Preparatory Committee for the repeal of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Violations of Ukrainian Legislation while privatising companies in the oil and gas complex. Registration number 0922. Please be supportive. Vote. I vote in favour. [[13:47:15]] For 230 The law has been repealed as such that it does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act is being considered to ensure compliance with the requirements for the non-conformity of the service activities of officials of local self - government and local executive authorities. With the President's proposals of December 12, 1999. Registration number 0904. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It is known that the Ukrainian Act on ensuring compliance with the requirements for the non-conformity of the service activities of officials of local self-government and local executive authorities was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 21, 99. The President of Ukraine twice made comments and proposals to this law in a veto order -- November 15th, 99th and May 14, 2002. Before presenting the latest comments and proposals by the President of Ukraine, I should point out that in the past three years, legislation on Ukraine's local self-government has changed. The issues that have been envisaged by this law have now been partially resolved in another way, which confirms exactly the position of the President of Ukraine on the necessity of repealing the law. Moreover, I will not go into the very premises of the President of Ukraine's proposals, which are in the order of the veto. It is also important to pay attention to the country’s distinguished national deputies to the following situation. 20.05 Last year a decision was taken by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on just a number of issues governed by this law. It is a question of the incompatibility of local council members, and it should be noted that, in accordance with the decision of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction, the position of the President of Ukraine, which was expressed in relation to unconstitutionality, is meant to refer to the inadequacy of the Constitution of Ukraine of this law, when confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes that this law be repealed. I'll ask for your support very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u172	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the seat of Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u173	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting, considered the President’s proposals before the bill, and the Committee concluded that Ukraine’s legislation provided for restrictions on certain categories of officials of local government and local executive authorities. These standards are defined both in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine on local self - government in Ukraine, on local government administrations, on combating corruption. The Committee recommends accepting the proposals of the President of Ukraine and recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u174	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the President's proposals and the committee's profile coincide and, indeed, as we've been looking at it -- this is 1999 -- and the Court's Constitution, and other laws have already settled these issues. Therefore, we have every reason to take a decision with a clear conscience to repeal the Ukrainian Act “On ensuring compliance with the requirements for the incompatibility of the service activities of officials of local self-government and local executive authorities”, registration number 0904. Please vote. [[13:51:50]] For 275 The law has been revoked. And, please, another law, Roman Mihajlovich: "To amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 4 December 2004, registration number 5465. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On October 8, 2004, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine in relation to the Adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine”. According to the President of Ukraine, the law was passed by Parliament in haste, without prior general discussion on the First Reading Committees of the Supreme Council. It has also been noted that regarding the law’s position, there is a formal change in the terminology of legislative acts, the standards of which are to some extent related to the system of the calculation of citizens according to their place of residence or residence. They were accepted without taking into account the content of the amended standards and the impact of these changes. In the absence of numerous differences in the definition of housing, residence, registration, the law that is being considered will not contribute to the achievement of the appropriate harmonization of terms, and in some cases it will make things worse, I emphasize, worsen the quality of the amended standards. In addition, the president of Ukraine concluded that the provisions of the Law also did not correspond to international standards. In particular, the decisions of the European Union, the United Nations, the Council of Europe on a case-by-case basis are even contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies, due to the fact that I have little time, I will not be teaching all the positions of the President of Ukraine, they are presented in the materials that are given to you. And of course, I am convinced that all the Ukrainian national deputies who are very conscientious in their duties have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the details of the legal situation of the President of Ukraine. On the basis of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes that this Law should be repealed as one that does not conform to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and adopted without a thorough analysis of the consequences of its changes, which are made to valid legislative acts and adopted a new one. I emphasize that the proposal is to adopt a new concept. Taking into account the need to bring Ukraine's legislation in this area into line with international law the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and to comply with the requirements of the legislative technique. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u176	Thank you, please sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the conclusion of the committee is that it is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority to defeat the President's veto. So in this order, we're going to put it to a vote. The first would be the President’s proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine. Registration number 5465. Presidential proposal for rejection, annulment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:55:44]] For 169 The decision is not supported. A vote is taken on the proposal of a committee of profile to overcome the veto. Please vote. [[13:56:10]] For 240 Not accepted. Thus, since we have not made any positive decisions, the bill has been rejected. And I'm going to the profile committee to support the Justice Minister's proposal to work out a new version of the law and look at it. The Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Appointment of Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers" has been followed, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 11.11.2004. Registration number 5454-d. Reported by the Deputy Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio, Petrenko Viktor Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian Act of 21 October 2004 "On the Order of Appointment of Heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers" cannot be signed for such reasons. Under Part 4 of article 1 of this law, the heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Broadcasting Company of Ukraine cannot have a representative mandate. In this regard, it should be noted that the Constitution of Ukraine provides a comprehensive list of cases of nonconformity of the representative mandate with other types of activity, the positions of presidents of television companies and radio companies in this list. The law stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the heads of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine to submit the President and suspends them and relieves them of their occupation. At the same time, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for either the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine with powers regarding the National Television Company, the National Radio Company and, in particular, the appointment and release of their leaders. It is not in line with the constitutional standards indicated, as well as section 33 of the first part of article 85 of the Basic Law of Ukraine concerning the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's parliamentary control and the provision of an article of the Sixth Act of Ukraine on the report of the heads of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company. In accordance with Ukraine’s basic law, the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established solely by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council. Contrary to this rule, the law establishes a procedure for the appointment and termination of the powers of directors of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company of Ukraine. Thus, virtually all the legal provisions are such that they do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. In summary, the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Appointment of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers is proposed to cancel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-09-08-m0.u178	Thank you. Have a seat, please. It's from the Justicenko profile committee. None. Then I'll introduce you to the decision of the profile committee. The Professional Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. These are proposals I'm putting to the vote. The first is the President's proposal to reject the law repealing the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Appointment of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and to terminate their powers. Registration number 5459-d. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:33]] For-40 Not accepted. The proposal to defeat the President's veto is put to the vote on the Ukrainian Law “On the Order of Appointment of Heads, Presidents of the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine and on the Cessation of Their Powers”. Registration number 5459-d. Please be friendly. [[14:01:13]] For-142 Not accepted. A similar situation. We did not make any positive decisions, so the bill is considered rejected. More specifically, we supported the president's proposal, not by supporting it formally, but in fact. Yes, Your Honor, we have every reason to declare the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed and adjourned until 4:00. So let's work together at the evening session.
