ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u1	Dear National Colleagues! I see we have enough quorum to continue our work. So let's register. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:20]] There are 342 national deputies registered in the hall, and I declare the evening session open. Yes, dear colleagues, you and I are continuing to discuss matters of great importance that have begun before the break, as agreed that 21 minutes, i.e. that seven national deputies should be able to participate in the discussion. Now I'm going to take a look at what we've got here on the way out of the rostrum. Show me all these bills, please. So, now, let me look at who's here. Yeah, well, please, Novak, the Communist faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u2	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Novak Volodymir, Hmelničina Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, dear voters! I'd like to stop at two projects: 5380 and 5380-1. The question that we are looking at today has grown to a long time ago, since it is no secret to anyone that in recent years there has been the activity of individual individuals and legal persons who can be described as detectives by means of search methods. Therefore, this activity is not governed by any laws, regulations, or regulations. That's why I think it's acceptable for the authors to somehow legalize private-detective activities and set standards for their implementation, because these social relationships, which are of a kind of service to private detective activity, are already quite real in our society. Clearly, they need to be legitimized. The two projects that are under consideration today have a number of observations. It turns out that private investigators can carry out some actions that are actually operational-search activities, such as gathering information about the personal life of a person, and that can be carried out in accordance with Ukraine's current, valid legislation. Moreover, gathering information about a person or his video, audio recording and photographing without his prior consent are expressly prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine and the Civil Code of Ukraine. And even though the authors of both projects declare themselves in detective activity, the principle of social justice has already been said, it's not clear how this can be done in practice, because detective activity is done on a paid basis. Obviously, in life it's going to look something like this: who pays money, who gets information, and any methods, legal and illegal. And this information in the future can be used against a particular person not only to establish the truth in a particular matter but also to blackmail or to carry out other evil purposes. Nor can we agree that the bill provides for the right of private investigators to carry firearms and to detain persons suspected of committing a crime by a private investigator. As a result of these project provisions, it can be concluded that it allows private armed structures to be created, in fact, private detective agencies become armed formations with law enforcement functions. For whom and in whose interests such weapons may be used, we can only guess. I think it would be appropriate to recommend to the authors of both projects to unite them, to work out one law, taking into account the comments made today, and to make one normal law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u3	Thank you. Please, Puzakov. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u4	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština To be serious, detective activity is an integral part of the modern - day search system in most parts of the world. In Ukraine, this type of activity is not officially recognized, but services that have detective signs are still provided to individuals and organizations. There are a number of examples of various abuses in its illegal practice, but there is great doubt as to whether a private investigator may be available to an average citizen. This is what the current state of search activity in Ukraine says. It's not a secret that they're working with their bare hands today, they don't even have the necessary transport, they're poorly trained, there's a great outflow of personnel, and mainly because of the lack of technical equipment and low level of wages. What can a private investigator give us in this state of crime and corruption? Unless you're pulling the rope. We're going to start a frame leak from the coroner's office. In these bills, the purpose and purpose of the act are not sufficiently explained. We don't have related laws and regulations today, so we need to regulate the development of the country's detective system in more detail. To date, we have hundreds of officially registered cases of missing persons and criminal cases. These cases have been in search and investigation for years. People are waiting for the final result, and it's not there, although there's a high-class specialist working there. So, first of all, we need to give maximum attention to the services that should provide Ukrainian citizens with safety of life, to create normal conditions for the work and life of these services. And the Communists in this rostrum repeatedly pointed to an immediate solution to these complex problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u5	Yes, please, Chernowitz. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u6	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Christian-liberal Party of Ukraine, Czernovetski People's Deputy. I would like to say that in recent years, the old criminal regime has established the most criminal system in law enforcement agencies, especially in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They're bandits who practically took over all the gangs and did the same thing they did. If we can still see any factions in Moscow, there are virtually no groups in Ukraine, because they've all moved to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and committed murders. This is confirmed by concrete facts. In Vysgorod, 18 people were tortured in the most cruel manner with the head of one of the security agencies. What if, on one of the committees, the leader of Interpol, the deputy of Belokona, who is the founder of the criminal factions in Ukraine, personally promised to shoot me in the presence of the people's deputies from the machine for talking about a specific bill? Bandugs, bandits. They demonstrate banditry both against communists and against all the others who are lucky to live in Ukraine today. I don't think there's going to be any horror with the new power. They use weapons, they use special equipment, they cut off Gongadze's head, they do specific things. I'm terrified I ran away from the people's deputies. No, thank God, I guess there is, isn't there? And there is no one in our Ukraine. I don't know what to do, who's going to support this bill, shame, and everything. But we're gonna stay with them one by one. You're talking about our Ukraine and your Ukraine is fascist and totalitarian. We know that. But to tell you the truth, she's the one with you. You're the one with the power, aren't you? And for you, Gongada's head is cut off, it's very good. Here, I'm kind of telling you specific things, yes, and what they're collecting for every citizen's confidential information, they all know that they're the only ones listening to phones, not authorized. They're bringing criminal proceedings against opposition deputies, all of them. Today, Yuri Anatolevich is proposing a grand bill, a noble bill, which is the best we can do in Ukraine. The entire world's public will support us in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u7	Yes. Please, Yavorowski, prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Viktor Yushchenka Block, honourable colleagues, distinguished voters of ours, by the way, it seems to me that Volter's phrase, which, if I'm not mistaken, sounds to me that kings know as little about the actions of their ministers as the corneas know about the actions of their wives. I'm sure both the first and the second know so little because there were no private investigators. We're living with you in a wonderful society where when we talk about a private detective, everyone quietly starts to shake, and they think it's totally unacceptable, but if we think about it calmly, we've actually lived with you for 70 years under the supervision of these semi-private, semi-state detectives, and this function has been performed by millions of whistleblowers who've passed on to each other, and that's why we've actually destroyed almost all of the Ukrainian intelligence, all of which thinks what happened in those years. We returned to that question again today. Why, because life is on its way to our heels. In fact, the armada of these detectives is in operation today, starting with the Melnicka, who showed us the face of authority. And we know that many days of recording, where the President speaks of everything that can be done with everyone, as Elijah Sylvinsky once said, "And he spoke with difficulty, holding back the beautiful word of his mother," where there is no word on state affairs, on international politics, on internal politics, where there is only one solution to their petty and mercantile issues, and where Mikola Janović says, "I've watched Vladimirsky's flat." And Kuchma says to him, "What's the matter, take it away." Well, you can't, because there's a few people living there. So throw them away, says Leonid Danilovich. From the level of power. I'm leading this to what we really need to settle this question, but I'm personally today, frankly, I'm afraid that I'm going to be licensing the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Instead of having a normal competition between them, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, especially in that warehouse that's headed by the Bilocon that I had to drink there for three days, I don't know, I think he's been drinking for 30 days, because he's nowhere to be seen. So this is a matter of great concern to me. And the second question. What is the limit of interference with personal life? Now, I'm pretty sure it's not possible to accept that today. Because that's what they're going to do to our person.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u9	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, get ready for the Mining.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u10	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished radio listeners. In the first bill under discussion, I am referring to the draft Act on Private Detective Activity of the Socialist Party, after a long discussion, we have decided to support the bill. Of course, such a service is needed, especially since my fellow MPs, socialists, have often been able to watch law enforcement work as they respond to citizens’ appeals. And, of course, if there's an alternative, this is a detective enterprise, or we're going to talk about an institution that might give its services to citizens. But on this point, I would like to make some warnings, because we have too many detectives and national deputies today, and other officials. We learned this from an official’s report and from the Ukrainian Security Service. And here I would also like to say about those law enforcement officials who could do a lot more good for society, for the Ukrainian people, or for individual citizens. It's just getting fired. I'm with the U.S. Department of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. What I'm saying about this bill is that the faction of the Socialist Party will vote in favour. With regard to the law on the Security Service, the owners and other legal entities, and the draft law on protection, both of these bills were decided by the faction of the Socialist Party not to support it. We have a lot of warnings. In spite of that, we've been talking to fellow socialists about this, and we've had information from our urban, district, district partners that these security agencies that were created in enterprises today are only subordinated to the business manager. This should be the case. But if you'll excuse me, how do you get the shareholder to your supervisor to find out? No one will miss it until they know whether it can pass or not. And next. There are many cases where these protective authorities do not allow national MPs when the Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine is violated. That is why we adopt laws that then, we will say so, they act against us, against the national MPs and against the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u11	A miner. I can't see. Then please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u12	Vladimir Cherniak, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." The honourable national deputies, the bills proposed, are knocking at the door of the Supreme Council, and we are obliged to open the door for them. Private detective activity, security and security services must be introduced into the legislative field. All of this already exists in life. And there is a need for that, by the way. This means that we are obliged by law to settle all these areas. Clearly, this is a very specific activity. There are challenges, risks, and dangers. But Parliament cannot close its eyes and hide its head like an ostrich, in the sand. We are obliged to settle. But we have to do it philligically, delicately, elegantly, by making it impossible to abuse in this area. But we should not avoid trying to settle these areas of activity. The question is whether to support the bills in the first reading or the second? There are two choices. Actually, the first reading is conceptual reading. In my opinion, it could be conceptually supported. But if not, at least one more time in order to allow them to work, and these bills all three will then be adopted. In my opinion, in the process of redrafting draft laws, either first or second reading, there are three major problems that need to be addressed: first, ensuring the legal and social protection of those engaged in these activities. Secondly, to ensure the legality of these activities and to protect human rights so that human rights are not exploited or violated. Ensure the effectiveness of these areas of activity. And third, to solve the issue of the use of weapons. This question is extremely relevant and delicate. I'd like to ask the question of weapons in a broader context: the Ukrainian people have brought down the criminal regime with weapons such as eggs and oranges. These are cosmic symbols. The Ukrainian people used space weapons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u13	Please, Hiccup. And prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u14	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. Dear comrades, dear colleagues! You are well aware that we know this matter only from books. We've read about Sherlock Holmes' time, and today we're studying Prondy and all that. Hence, not all of us are experts in this matter, and if we are not experts, of course, we can only speak according to what he has read and what he knows. On the one hand, it bribes. It bribes because, you know, there are companies, and they need to be legalized today. And if you do that, it'll be a good thing, and that's why our faction advocates at least to regulate the law, the activity of private detectives in relation to the law. But I have a purely professional approach to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u15	Vitaly, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, despite the fine microphones, I do not hear what the speaker has to say. Please hold the discussion more quietly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u16	But I have a purely professional question to Yuri Anatoliyovich about the 30th article that says "preparation of private investigators." It says that in order to prepare, retrain and improve the qualifications of personnel who carry out private detective activities, non-state educational institutions that have legal status may be established. So the language for today goes, in fact, that if it's prepared for a private firm, it's necessary for a person to pay what they need for their education. But can this person pay in the existing educational institutions that are now there? Today there are a lot of them, and our colleague, Alexander Markovich, who knows the matter, could confirm that he is in Kharkiv today, in Dnipropetrovsk, in each of today's cities there is either a faculty or an entire institution that prepares these frames. So is it necessary to put this into law in order to call for the need to re-create some educational institutions without having a base without adequate personnel without having the capacity to prepare these specialists? So I think that we need to look at this article in some critical way today and focus on the need to prepare these personnel in existing educational institutions, really, on a paid basis, because it's for private firms, so that the state doesn't win from this and we don't make some kind of educational institution that might be unqualified to train these professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u17	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u18	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we're looking at three very close bills, and you and I are witnessing how even such activities as law enforcement, it's falling apart, it's privatizing, and there are proposals to do even private detective work. And I hope, after all, that there will be a time when we have some law enforcement agencies, and they will, in fact, serve the people, not the clans and corporate structures that have emerged in Ukraine in the last decade. I would like to focus our joint attention on Bill 5738 "On the Security Service of Hosts and Other Legal Persons." It is obvious that this bill does not, to some extent, correspond to its name with the Code of Masters of Ukraine, which is understood not only by economic organizations but also by legal persons established in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine, by state, municipal and other enterprises established in accordance with this Code, by other legal persons who carry out economic activities and registered in accordance with the law, as well as by paying attention! - Ukrainian citizens, foreigners and stateless persons who carry out economic activities and registered, in accordance with the law, as entrepreneurs. In addition, branches, representations, and other separate units. See article 55 of the master code of Ukraine. Since the draft law of the entire list of economic operators is limited to economic organizations, that is the first thing that should be included in its name and in its text. Moreover, the scope of the law was not fully understood, so it would be appropriate to supplement it with a separate article on the "Sphere of Application of the Law", which states that the law does not extend to the activities of public authorities and local self-government, including the order of establishment and functioning of their well-known security services. Well, the draft law on protection, which has already been mentioned, does not fully correspond to the draft bill on protection activity, and so is this flaw and it is visual. So I'd like to propose that the bill be re-issued for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u19	Yes, thank you. Question completed. First Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mikhail Vasilovich Kornienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Indeed, the laws that are laid down in the package today are necessary, and this has been expressed by virtually all those who represented them and those who discussed them. But the IMF has made a proposal to the relevant committees of the Supreme Council on their substantive work. Well, I'm not going to analyze them, they're very well analyzed in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. You can agree with them. It's also a disagreement with the Constitution, with certain articles of the Constitution, it's also a disagreement with a number of laws and with operational and search activities, and with the Civil Code, and with other laws. So it would have to be worked out. We have this proposal to work with the Ministry of Justice, the other structures, and then bring them up for discussion. I repeat that society is in dire need of them, and our country is in dire need of them. And as for Leonid Mikhailovich's speech, I understand that these are emotions, they're negative, but the IMF has more than 200,000 people. Who work, Leonid Mikhailovich, conscientiously, and you can't call bandits, because you have to call specific names and specify all of these. I think they're negative emotions that the NSA can't support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u21	Please give me a minute to conclude, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity Block of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I listened gratefully to all the presentations that were made today. So far, what I see is that the braking that we've been doing for 14 years, Russia has been working with these laws for how many years, other countries are working, and we still have perceptions, total rejection. By the way, the law I'm calling is not called private activity, it's called detective activity. This is understandable because they may be subjects of various forms of property. And in article 10, we prohibit the gathering of information related to personal life, political, religious beliefs, acts that violate the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations, and telegraph messages. And I'm sorry that we just didn't get to know what they're doing today, the way they're protecting them, they're violating rights and deputies, including. Why don't you go to a newspaper or a publishing house?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u23	Well, one more minute, Yuri Anatolyevich, you can do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u24	I can, well, honourable national MPs, I beg you, you're under. What is it? You look, you look, please, and so look, please, how we live today, in which country we want to make it democratic. [[I'll report by three laws, by three, thank you.]] And to do that, we need democratic laws. Believe that each of these laws draws us closer to civilization and introduces all those who have been illegally wrongly admitted, look at another law, the service of security of the owners, we clearly prohibit those who are previously convicted, those who have a misdemeanoured case, those who are on trial, those who are accused of crimes that do not reach adulthood, and, in general, by the age of 21. We don't let them. And this is what I suggested that there be control of the IMF, but the IMF is willing not to allow competing firms in state security. People, let's think about whether we're doing smart things if we don't adopt these laws, if everything exists, but there's no law, so I would ask you
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u25	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. That's one minute of Kafarski's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the problem is extremely complex, but it needs to be solved. Today I've exchanged words with MPs, and in some cases they're referring to, well, not very seriously to this law, I'm going to argue that when an investigation goes on, no one can intervene, but the investigation does not happen to be faithful and leads to an illegal prison, we can't today's civil society influence the IMF. And it is precisely the Law on Private Detective Activity that opens up the possibility of conducting a parallel investigation, without violating the law and the right of the investigating authorities and prosecutors to do the same in order to protect themselves from untrue decisions that may be made at the level of our stately uncontrolled institutions. So I think this law needs to be adopted. Moreover, every bank today has a security service, which is not a security service, but a security service. Can the bank lend today without checking the possibility of someone taking millions of loans? So this thing has to be included in the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u27	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Literally a few words. First. It's absolutely right for all those who said that it really needs to be normalized. There's the right Carmazin, who said it's still illegal. We need to do this, but we need to make laws that really guarantee the legality of the activity so far. And the second. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you very much, you are being heard by 40 million people, don't discredit, please, the Supreme Council, don't use parliamentary statements. You have the right to say what you want, but within the limits of permitted human ethics. So please, I'm putting to the vote the laws that we've discussed. A bill on private detective activity is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5380]] Please vote. [[16:35:11]] For 242 Adopted in the first reading. The draft Law on Private Detective Activity is the subject of the vote. [[Registration number 5380-1]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:35:43]] For-153 The bill is rejected. Dear colleagues, these are alternative bills, we passed the previous one. That's not acceptable. What's the point if we've already adopted one of the bills? A draft Law on the Safety of Hosts and Other Legal Persons is put to the vote. Registration number 5738. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:36:31]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The draft Law on Security Activities, registration number 5729, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. Thirty-nine, excuse me. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:37:04]] For-182 The law is not adopted, it is rejected. So, dear colleagues, you and I adopted the draft Private Detective Activity Act, registration number 5380 on the first reading. The authors are Kafarsky, Bandurka, and others. We passed one of the laws, so here's the proposition. We passed a law that might be an offer? In the second reading, do you want to read it? We passed the law, one of them. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code. [[on the harmonization of rules with the provisions of the Civil Code]] Registration number 4151. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Prepare the Mussians. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u28	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill is made with the aim of reconciling the two codes. So they have rules that deny each other. For such a sensitive area as family relations, this is unacceptable, so the Ministry of Justice suggests that they consider amending the Ukrainian Family Code and removing a number of contradictions between the Ukrainian Family Code and the Ukrainian Civil Code. And since family law, as a branch, is closely linked to civilians, bringing these provisions of the Family Code to civilian standards is a necessary and vital step by the Ukrainian State. And we must take this step. A few things that need to be reconciled. The first is the way to solve the problem of patronage, care, and care. They're different in the Family Code and in the Civil Code. And this is certainly unacceptable. The draft also provides for the deletion of the third part of article 19, which establishes that the decision of the guardianship and guardianship body is terminated if the appeal to the court is made. The proposed change is that early termination of custody and custody may have a negative effect on the interests of the parties and, above all, on the interests of the child. That is to say, when normal civil law stipulates that if a civil dispute is brought before a court, it is to be considered, once the material has been supplied, that act on the basis of which the legal relationship has been established ceases immediately. In this case, it is a child. If the decision of the custody authorities was determined by the guardian and allowed to be deprived of his rights, then the court admits that everything was right, and the child was taken, and then returned, it was the child's moral injury. Clearly, then, it is only on the basis of the court’s decision to annul the decision of the authorities. In addition, after establishing in section 27 of the second article of this Code that the state registration of marriage is solemn, we have virtually denied the citizen the right to exercise his will to register marriage in a solemn setting or without it. I can say that by analyzing the practice that is now in the registration system. Some 40 percent of married couples want to do so without a solemn atmosphere. So we have to force people to do this? Obviously, this should be the exclusive right of those who want to marry. Considering that this is a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u30	There are a whole series of points that need to be matched by two codes between each other. Of course, each one weighs enough. I would like the Ukrainian national deputies to support the adoption of two important codes, which are the basis for many acts of civil life today and, in particular, in family relations, and in particular, in family relations. Thank you. Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u31	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, from Musiak's committee, Victor Lavrentiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Legal Policy considered Bill No. 4151, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and believes that it is necessary to adopt in the first reading, in view of the application practice, this year, which has passed since 1 January 2004, when both the Civil and Family Codes entered into force, has shown that there are differences in the treatment of the same provisions as the Civil and Family Codes can apply, and that they treat different situations differently, and this will bring about an appropriate conflict in the application of the rules of the Civil or Family Code. Dozens of suggestions are here. I won't stop at them. Alexander Volodymyrovich stopped all over the line. And I'll also draw your attention to the positions that I think are extremely revealing. For example, there's an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers that I don't think can be accepted. Article 216 speaks of what is forbidden in the middle -- now in the text of the law the coma stands -- mediated, commercial activity in the adoption of children is forbidden, and they propose to whom to remove, as if you remember, "Penalty cannot be pardoned," -- where to put someone. So, if you accept it, it turns out that a commercial middleman is banned, and a middleman is allowed non-commercial. Try to show or figure out where the business is commercial and where it is not commercial, if they arrange abroad, for example, a written form of a commercial agreement in this area. Then of course it's unacceptable. But, for example, there is a position that speaks of a protective service. The proposal is that the protective service, for example, be cleaned up because it is in the Civil Code of Care and Care. We need to see, perhaps when working on perhaps the patronate, make an article, two in the Civilian. Because the patronage itself is specific, because it's about doing the same care and care functions, but it's about pay. And there are a number of other things that require improvement. Either the articles of the Civil, Family, Reconciliation, Codex, or some article in the Civil or Family Code should be refined. For example, it is imperative that article eight of the Family Code states that it is possible to apply the provisions of the Civil Code not only to compensate for damage to property but also to the moral damage caused.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are about to conclude our consideration of this issue, and we will go back to the previous one, because there is a committee proposal. Maybe send them to pre-work the ones we've been looking at. But that's when we're done. Yes, are we going to discuss or are we going to be clear? Yes, Melniczuk, please. The microphone or the rostrum? Well, then, please, the microphone. Carmazine, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u34	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! The bill is aimed at reconciliation, as described above in the Family Code and the Civil Code. This will allow us to avoid collisions in their application and certainly to do so, especially with regard to our children, and we know how much today, especially during this period of independence of Ukraine and at the same time as we had power, we have left our children without regard for the state. The child must be provided with the possibility of exercising his rights, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. And of course, the adoption of this bill will allow it to be implemented not just on paper, but on the right of this child. Article 10, article 13, other articles to which changes are made will certainly be key in the adoption of the bill. I would like to say that in our country of Ukraine, over the past 10 years, we've had many cases: both child trafficking, and others were facts, and when parents sell their children, and when other cases were terrible, I just don't want to talk about them. That is why we, parliamentarians, national MPs who have the confidence of our constituents, have to do everything we can to protect our children, because today who, if they don't, suffer the most from what has happened and happened in Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support this bill, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u35	Please, Karmazin. He's behind him, Chernewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u36	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! The adoption of this project is, of course, designed to harmonize the new Family and Civil Code. But we need to be very careful. I would like the protocol to be fixed, and I would like to propose that this law be adopted in the first reading. At the same time, I believe that since the resolution of disputes between the legal subjects is a function of the court, there is no need to amend article 161 of the Family Code, which proposes a solution to disputes over the whereabouts of a minor, I emphasize that a minor child is a guardian and care provider. Nor is it possible to exclude article 161, paragraph 3, of the Family Code of Part Two, which provides for the operation of a court if a child cannot be transferred to the persons defined in this article. I firmly believe that it is necessary to record that a child in relation to age, given that he cannot fail to realize the fact of adoption, is to take into account the observation of the Scientific and Expert Department, which suggests that the first part of this article should read: "A child over six years of age needs its consent." Six years is a serious age. And in order to avoid the abuses that we've been investigating, including the creation of commissions of inquiry into child abuse, so that it doesn't happen, we can't divide the mediation of adoption into commercial and non-commercial. In this regard, we must leave things as yet in article 216 of the Family Code. Also because chapter 6 of the Civil Code does not deny the existence of a patronate contract, chapter 20 and article 261 of the Family Code is not necessary at all, I wanted to stop at all on the term "patronate." I'm addressing the government, I'm addressing all the heads of the government, let's forget that word, in the sense that someone is doing the patronage: under the patronage of the mayor, under the patronage of the governor, even though we don't have a governor, under the patronage of the President, even though we haven't had a president in the last 10 years. And I want to look to my fellow communists under the previous laws, Your Honor, I ask you not to hinder the development of society. We vote in favour of all the bills, no matter who they are, whether they're a Communist or not. I'm so out of it, and there's politeness, and there's honesty, and there's honesty in that. Do Not Vote
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u37	Yes, please, Chernowitz, behind him, Salomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u38	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies, those who listen to us, the Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. I would like to continue the topic of the bills that the Ministry of Justice has put in charge of Mr. Lavrinović, who has also dealt with the Constitution, and have created conditions for entrepreneurs to actually put their treatises in jail. And where did he come up? It's Gongadze. It's like a fact that's established. Let him sue me if he doesn't. I don't trust a single word in this bill because it's a complicated bill. As a well-deserved lawyer of Ukraine, I am showing you that every word of this bill has to be carefully considered under the scale, because there are a lot of things that need to be resolved in principle, and unlike Lenin, I believe that the revolution must be done in clean gloves. It's very important because he predicted it, it's hard for me to land. So if he's a good bill, let Lavrinovich resign after my words, he'll be long gone if he's guilty or hanged or retired long ago. But he's sitting here, yeah, and he's looking at the progress of the process, he's gonna leave it in the government, yeah, he's gonna be brushing his teeth. He'd have to go long ago, but he's sitting there passing laws. I don't know, it's true what it's like to be infatuated.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u39	By law, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u40	That is why I believe that if this law is good, and one of the lawyers, including the communists, has carefully examined it and can submit it, yes, morally speaking, with no clear eyes behind Gongadze's investigation, whose head has been cut off and who has not yet made it clear, yes, although it has long been clear, then you will take this bill and submit it in the next, well, immediately, at least one day, just take it away from Mr. Lavrinovich, because I do not believe him personally. Besides, I think it's the person who will be. First of all, this does not completely affect the application of the law, because everything is stated in the Code. He's the one who adapted everything to stay in history, at least he didn't pass any law of the road all the time. There is no law of Mr. Lavrinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u41	And thank you, but the honourable colleagues under the Constitution have no right of legislative initiative, no minister has only the Cabinet of Ministers, so it's not the law of Lavrinovich, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. Solomonine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u42	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Honorable colleagues seem to say almost all the words that confirm the need for this bill submitted by the government. And even though this government of capitalist ministers does not have enlightenment to protect not only a small Ukrainian but also his child and his grandson. So our faction, in spite of the criticism and the patrons that are happening today, and the fact that there is a kind of mediating or even commercial activity around children, we think that all of this needs to be regulated, arranged. And finally, what is completely unappreciative and can be used against a child, and it can be banned. So our faction will vote in favour of supporting this bill in its first reading. This is the first part of my speech. The second part is that my colleague, the defender of the capitalist homeland, made a remark by the faction of the Communists that it seems to interfere with the positive legislative activity led by the appointed patron. He takes too much of himself to pretend to be such high grades. And the last. It's about this issue that we're considering. I received a letter from a voter named Peter Golovachev today, and there are such very embarrassing lines that touch on the issue that we are discussing. A Russian letter, and I will allow myself to read it in Russian. "Blood to drink, devour a competitor, To wait for the moment, hiding in the shadows, hiding and waiting. The main thing is to survive, the main thing is to survive. The peace of the parasites knows no morals, We haven't heard of solidarity here. Sometimes it's a waste of time. The main thing is to survive, eat and fuck. What is the meaning of this evil accompaniment? To remove all the juices from the victim of the poor, To hide, to seek, to take away and to save, Survive, eat and reproduce." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u43	Once again, I'm paying attention to the national MPs. If you're going to say what you want, not to discuss laws, because some of you are going to go out here, not to discuss laws, but to say what comes into his tongue, I'm going to deprive you of words. Please, on the basis of the Black vote, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u44	If the MP wants to say one thing, he will say something else. This is my reaction to what's going on. Now essentially. In fact, I support the proposal to reconcile the Family Code with the provisions of the Civil Code. This does not give rise to any doubt. I want to look at three points that need to be taken into account. The first point is to ban all mediated activities in the adoption of children. Intermediate activities cannot be divided into commercial and noncommercial activities. The second is to anticipate the resolution of disputes about the place of residence of a minor by the authorities of care and care. And the third is to exclude an item under which a marriage agreement cannot transfer immovable property to the property of one of the spouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u45	Yes, for the reasons of the vote, please, Boris Illich Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u46	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I would like to support you in keeping some speakers at least if not the shores of socialism, then normal realism and not crossing the line. You may love or dislike an official, but there is a line in the language line. I want to put it mildly: anyone needs to respect himself first and then go to the images of others. There's some kind of label and some kind of standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u47	Thank you. We've completed our discussion on the amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code on the harmonization of the provisions of the Ukrainian Civil Code, this is registration number 4151, and I'm voting on the proposal to adopt it as a basis for the first reading. Please vote. [[17:00:45]] For 223 Dear colleagues, I think they were all excited by the last words of our Patriarch Boris Illich, and that's why they couldn't reach the buttons. I am voting again on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code, 4151 registration numbers. Please vote. [[17:01:29]] For 266 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Don't relax. As you and I have agreed, I have promised that we will return with you to the vote to re-read the previous drafts. So I am voting for the re-reading of the draft Law on the Safety of Hosts and Other Legal Persons, registration number 5738. Please vote. [[17:02:17]] For 178. Not accepted. It is up to the vote to re-read the draft Act on Security Activities, registration number 5739. Author Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin Please vote. [[17:02:49]] For-195 So, dear colleagues, let's not be very disappointed again. Two weeks from now, the next session. And they absolutely have the right to draft laws in the next session to return to their consideration. The question is: A draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the system of organs of justice. Registration number 5780. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare the Weakness from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u48	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! This bill proposes to solve the two problems that exist today. One of these concerns the structure of justice bodies in Ukraine, since the existing system of district, city and district administrations in cities in which the district division is located has a rather bulky structure for the positions to provide infrastructure to the system. It is suggested that the possibility of uniting these offices be envisaged in order to use more persons who will perform the direct functions assigned to the justice system. That is, the possibilities of uniting urban and district administrations of justice in cities of district importance and the unification of district administrations of justice in cities where there is a district division. Today, there are virtually every executive body that has its structures throughout the country. This enables more rational use of personnel and less use of budget spending on non-core activities. And the second problem is that we now have the same functions in law for different organs. It is the function of registering or legalizing citizens’ associations. Part of these functions to this day are envisioned by local self - government authorities, and this function is also foreseen by the judicial authorities. We remember that at the time, let us say, at first these functions were performed by all local authorities, and then laws were passed. The registration of citizens’ union, including charity funds and other associations in the justice system. In order to avoid today’s dualism of norms that exist in legislation, it is suggested that a single system be defined. These 2 problems that are proposed for solutions are introduced into the draft law on the improvement of the system of organs of justice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, from the Committee on Legal Policy, Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u50	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered the bill and would like to express its views on the matter. Well, if the first part is about improving the activities of the authorities, it is the least and the least that has arisen, and the least of the observations have been made, because most people understand that this way separate branches of government have already been passed, and the Ministry of Justice also has the right to have appropriate structures and thus to improve its organizational structure. That's all for today. Citizens ask the question that in some cases the local authorities depend on the respective territorial units, they ask even, they say: make us independent to some extent, so that we represent a larger territorial, probably community, and resolve our particular issues there. Therefore, the corresponding amendments to the law on the State Executive Service, the enforcement of which did not arise in particular, but from other committees when it came to the transfer of the registration function. registering individual subjects, that's where the questions came up, because let's just see what laws are affecting. Thus, it is proposed that the relevant territorial authorities, which refer to the administration of the Ministry of Justice, have the right to register the unification of citizens governed by the relevant law, this also applies to professional workers and creative associations, according to the professional associations and rights and guarantees of their activities. It was in this respect that there were some observations in the part of that, but what kind of body should carry out this state registration: whether the executive authorities, or maybe some new body would be created, or whether it would still be under the patronage of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the committee has carefully considered the proposals and the bill presented in the law and believes that the first reading needs to be considered, we ask it to support it, and accordingly in our future work we will look at those bills that are now under consideration, which may yet be submitted, in order to take the best possible account of the proposals that may come from the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u51	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Shall we discuss or vote? Please, Bulba. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! Socialist faction, Stephen Bulba. Our faction will support this law because it really improves the justice system, takes a certain step, because its essence is to unite the districts in cities other than the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, the administrations of justice in the interdisciplinary administration of justice, and the district authorities in the cities have a regional significance for the administration of justice. I think it's appropriate, and here we have to support all of this. But now I would like to take advantage of my right to a replica that was essentially me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u53	Excuse me, you'll be taking a line elsewhere, speaking legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u54	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u55	I repeat, talk about the law or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u56	I'm not just talking to you right now, I'm talking to all the radios. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u57	Turn off the microphone. I have just made an announcement that according to certain articles of the Rules, the speaker has the right to speak about the law, the law and only the law that we are discussing. Anything else -- you take advantage of your right to reply and you say, so please, if you continue by law, if you don't, Karmazin will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u58	So by law, all by law, let's do everything by law, because I understand your relationship with whoever has actually disgraced me today, spreading to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u59	Turn off the microphone. Yes. Please, Karmazin, follow him Javorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u60	Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u61	I'll put it to a vote now. Who in order to give him the opportunity for the two minutes left in the National Deputies to tell him what he wants, except for the discussion of the Law, please be determined. [[17:11:17]] For 106 Please sit down, Karmazin, behind him, Yavorowski. You'll get the word in reply when the time is right, not just using every platform you want to talk to. Please, Karmazin, follow him Javorowski. Have a seat, please. You've only been supported by 106 deputies. You need another 110. You read the rules first, and then you'll teach me, please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u62	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. For individual people, we have one country called Ukraine. The name of the party comes from what is written in the Constitution, so if someone has a bourgeois country, please sit in the bourgeois Parliament, we are the deputies of the Ukrainian, national, democratic parliament. Dear friends, to others, I would like to support this bill in the first reading, but at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the observations made by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, I don't know why he didn't make those remarks today, but we do have them, he wrote them down. I'd like to hear this from the minister of justice. He wrote: In an effort to unify the system for the registration of certain types of citizens’ associations, the bill does not decide on the conflict that arises in cases where individual associations are forced to double registration as a citizens’ union and as a legal person. This problem is particularly relevant for charitable organizations, creative organizations, and professional communities. I'm asking you to stop my timer. I can't report it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again and explain the Rules. You may not tolerate John Sidorov. If you can't stand it, I know it. I'll say it again. Chernewicki, don't run the Parliament. I'll explain again. Sit down, please. Everyone has the right to repeat within a minute. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, there's two minutes. Two more minutes, Carmazine. Continue, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u64	I ask you to calm down, ladies and gentlemen. We've been promised a minute. A man will get a line. Ladies and gentlemen, I proceed. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality made such a warning. I quote: In an effort to unify the system for the registration of certain types of citizens’ associations, the bill does not decide on the conflict that arises in cases where individual associations are forced to double registration as a citizens’ union and as a legal person. This problem is particularly relevant for charitable organizations, creative and professional communities. I'm putting this whole committee's point of view together. The standards of the bill should be in line with the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons, Entrepreneurs, adopted on May 15, 2003. The position of the bill, which is proposed to introduce inter-regional and land administrations of justice, is not sufficiently justified by the departments of the State Executive Service, in the opinion of the committee, in the text of the bill or in the explanatory note to it. If a project is adopted as a law, it is possible to misinterpret these rules, which can be found in sub-legislative acts, which will increase the number of persons working in the justice system, the system itself will become more bureaucratic. Ladies and gentlemen, I've given you this statement by the committee to see how important it is now in a bill or in a transitional position to write that any changes that apply to the structure will not be to the increase in the size of the Ministry of Justice to prevent this from falling into the State Budget. Because otherwise you have to conclude the Budget Committee and so on. So, honourable national MPs, I propose in the first reading to adopt this bill, and then to make some amendments, because there are a lot of changes to many laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u65	Please, it's Yavorowski's microphone. Behind him is Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u66	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky and Yavorovsky regions, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka’s block, is already the president of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I think this law just outside seems purely technical, where some notions change to others, i.e. local authorities change to representative bodies of the Ministry of Justice. But in fact, I think this law, these amendments and this law seems very and very important. It's not just a change in form, but in fact today, society has worked out from the chaos that we've had, where some have acted like this, some have registered for bribes, some have not registered because we haven't been able to do it, and we don't know how to do it. I think it's essentially a very progressive and progressive legal step, that all of this will take the Ministry of Justice, will be produced by one single principle, will be produced by one single approach. And if, let's say, a republican organization, or a creative organization, or a charity, or any one, if it's registered in Kiev, it's perfectly clear that all of this is going to be introduced into the same system. So I end up with this idea that the bill needs to be supported, it's very important, we're going to have the only structure up to the bottom, we're going to have a data bank, an information bank, that's all normal. I could have ended it, but I remembered the phrase of Peter Ustinov, who said, "I can't always be a faithful flag without knowing whose hands it's in." So I would just like to remind and, using the presence of our minister here, the minister, that, of course, if the Ministry of Justice were to act as it did during the difficult period of the National Writer's Association, when in fact the person on the street is suing the Ministry of Justice, demanding that they hand over the documents, and the Ministry of Justice takes it as a decision by the court, without even sending their representatives there, then if the Justice Ministry does so, this law, sin will be a price to him. But I'm sure everything will be fine, and this bill, and I'm going to vote for it, and I'm going to call for it to vote for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the improvement of the system of justice bodies, registration number 5780. Please vote. [[17:20:02]] For 212 Yes, dear fellows, please do this a little bit. Once again, I place a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine on Improving the System of Justice Authorities, registration number 5780. Please vote. [[17:20:38]] For 256 Copy that. Yes, please, one minute, a replica of Bulby. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u68	I'm sorry, here's the thing. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Today, in my absence in the hall, the National MP Masenko called my last name seven times in three minutes. Of course, normal, decent people do not. But it's not even about that. I realize that the Company is now going through difficult times because it's hard for people to explain why it's actually taking sides with a regime of criminal power that still doesn't give up its position. But I am absolutely convinced that we will not allow the use of lies as an argument. And that's why I think if. And I warn you, if National Deputy Masenko doesn't apologize from the Supreme Council's rostrum before me, I'm gonna have to bring the case to trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u69	There is a bill to amend the Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine on enforcement. Registration number 6014. Please, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! This draft law is prepared to carry out the commission of the Supreme Council, which was adopted in the final provisions of the Law on the State Executive Service, which was approved in this Hall. The project is proposed to supplement the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and the provisions on the order and time limits of the court’s decision on the removal or removal of the implementing document or on the execution of the execution of the public executive service. The fact is that the law itself provides for such actions, but the process itself is not established by the Procedural Code and there are no procedural lines. In this regard, the appropriate standards that are proposed today are set out for your consideration. And we offer to support them. This also applies to the procedure of entry into a home that must be made solely on the basis of a court decision. And this order of decision-making by the court must also be duly prescribed, so that it can be resolved by the question placed on the State enforcement service if there is such a need, whether it is a matter of taking the child away, or whether it is a matter of removing property that is illegally found in the home. If the court deems it necessary to make such a decision, it is necessary that a procedure be drawn up, as it is to be considered, and how it is to be approved, and at what level of court. These are the proposals, the changes that are being proposed today to two procedural codes, so that the functions that are already provided by the laws of Ukraine can be ensured. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u71	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, head of committee Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we are simply obliged to amend the Criminal Procedure Code and the Civil Procedure Code regarding the removal of documents, other procedural actions, well, when it comes to the removal of the implementing document or the execution of the conduct. However, since article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct provides that all of this is done by a court’s decision, the procedure is not clear. Therefore, the Criminal Procedure Code needs to be amended. However, obviously, it is not appropriate to change the Civil Procedure Code now because we have adopted a new Civil Procedure Code, and it is in articles 293 and 376 that this issue has already been resolved, that is, we have prescribed a way of entering the home when it comes to making decisions about a child or some other decision. That's why. But we can do this in a second reading. In general, I think we need to support the first reading as a basis, and we're going to be correcting the second reading, the more that maybe somewhere in February-March, we're going to adopt the Administrative Procedure Code as a whole, and we're going to put the Civil Procedure Code into effect this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's support Vasil Vasilovich and vote. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. With motive? Then, please, 1 minute, Shibko and Nik. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, we understand very well when we are dealing with our citizens and complaints, how very difficult it is to work in the executive service when there is a court decision, and the executive service, as far as we are concerned, cannot execute a court decision. So I think these changes are appropriate. But still, I would like us to pay attention to the comments that are being made here to this bill. Unfortunately, the minister did not mention them. I don't think you can record, except for the court, the decisions of other authorities, and the question of compulsory. Life. What are the other organs? I would like the minister to explain today because the court is a court of law, and that is very important. And I still think we should call the court, because if someone avoids and does not go to court, then it is no longer possible to deal objectively with the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u75	Yes, please, Black Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, this is a small bill, but an extremely important one. Ukraine’s State Executive Service is ineffective, and the courts’ decisions are not implemented. The courts are overwhelmed by cases that. the deadlines that are being extended. If we need something, first and foremost, it is necessary to reform the judicial system, not the political, constitutional and any other. Otherwise, nothing will work in this country. And it is this bill that is a small but important step in solving these problems. So I think we have a reason to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u77	Yuri Anatolyovich, are you insisting on the performance? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I want to ask you, when we're not in the order that we're supposed to, we're voting, and not all the questions and you're going to hear thoughts, you can realize that you're doing what's wrong right now. I want to demonstrate what evil can be. Part two of article 355, which is complemented by the Code, reads: "The court shall, within two days, consider the submission referred to in part one of this article, i.e. the forced entry into a residence or other possession which holds the property of the debtor or the property and the expenses of the debtor. the person or child for whom the executive document is based. in the execution of decisions and decisions of other bodies." What officials, may I ask? [[landowners]] What kind of organs other than court. Why is everyone silent? And you're ready to vote. Who are you, the button man or the MP? You can't vote like that, do you understand? We're not buttoning with you. This law, without calling you to trial in those courts formed by Kuchma and Medvedchuk, will completely deprive you of all the guarantees that exist. I will be firm against this law, and I strongly urge you to do so. And let your voters know. And you can't erase Vasil Vasil Vasilovich on second reading, because it's a concept, it's a conceptual acceptance in the first reading. Such a concept is impossible to agree with without the call of an interested person to resolve questions about you. They'll be home in two days. Surrender yourself. Open your eyes when you discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u79	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. But for justice's sake. Dear colleagues! Don't get excited because you don't want to hear each other and for justice's sake, Yuri Anatolyevich, listen to exactly the same thesis before you, and that's exactly what our colleague Sibko did before this bill, so don't blame anyone for not seeing anything. Yes, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important to really answer the question of what other bodies and officials are, because the Ukrainian National Deputies in the laws of Ukraine have foreseen that the State Executive Service, in particular, is obliged to carry out decisions not only in court but also to carry out the executive inscriptions of notaries, to carry out the decisions of the Commissions on Labour Disputes, to implement the decisions of the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine and its territorial bodies. It also executes decisions made by officials authorized in the Code of Administrative Offences, i.e. it goes to, say, the fisheries inspectors, the conservation forest and many others that you have accepted and placed on the State Enforcement Service, then it has to be removed from the laws, remove the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee, execute the notaries, remove the administrative fines and everything will be right, that is, that is, what is already in the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, I am thinking of an explanation. Yuri Anatoliyovich, I think the Minister of Justice's explanation has put everything in place. Well, you and I have passed such a law, and you say it didn't. So why did we take him? Onopenko one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, I liked his temper and enthusiasm in Yuri Anatoliyovich's speech first, and I didn't see the arguments there, except what the Minister of Justice said, I wanted to remind Yuri Anatoliyovich that you were the author of the Notariat Act, where it was written that the executive notary inscriptions were being carried out by the executive public service, and I don't want to remind you of other bills. If you need to change the concept, please be a member of the Legal Policy Committee, and we will change the concept. But so far your concept is in line with these changes and additions that are provided for in the current draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, we'll vote, I'll give you my word for a line, I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. Dear colleagues. He'll get the word for it. Dear colleagues, once again, the clarification of the minister of justice and the head of the committee of profile tells us that there are other administrative decisions that need to be made. You got a receipt for a fine, you need someone to take that fine. I don't even think I understand the lawyer here. I think let's support it in the first reading, and in the second, everyone who wants to write it will write it down, and we'll discuss it in detail. Yuri Anatolyovich agrees that first of all, he is worthy of it. Let's vote for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Civil Procedural and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, registration number 6014. [[on executive conduct]] Please be supportive. [[17:33:57]] For 211 Dear colleagues, let's mobilize. I'm going to vote again. Again, dear colleagues, let us leave logic, and logic tells us that in addition to the decisions of the court, there are other decisions of other organs that one must make. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, registration number 6014. [[on executive conduct]] Please vote. [[17:34:53]] For 239. Thank you. A decision has been made. Please, one minute of Carmazin's lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you need to, you ask questions about voting and you vote separately when you don't need to, you don't. When necessary, your Regulatory Committee, I emphasize, your Regulatory Committee draws attention to this when it is not necessary, it does not pay attention. And as for what Vasil Vasilovich the reverend has just said. I'd like to make it clear that these issues need to be dealt with. Where there's notational executive inscriptions, that's one question, and where there's a question about housing, breaking into a child's apartment, it's got to be ruled out of here. And here it is, and then these interested persons are called to court, and they have to report. It's a question of concept, conceptually, whether we're going to guarantee human rights, in general. And the question is only to be considered a little differently. But, Adam Ivanovich, we must do everything legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u85	Thank you. I think we're doing everything legally. Moreover, you will be able to make absolutely all the changes you want to make to your second reading. There is a bill to amend the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] Bill number 6023. The author of the bill is Chernevski. Please. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u86	Honourable Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies. I am Chernovetski, the Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. I would like to say that this law was pointed out to me by the Vice-President of the Council of Judges of Ukraine. And it's very simple. It's the simplest fact. There is an agreement between the creditor and the debtor. They restructured, restructured the debt, they have a good attitude, everything's fine. Then one of them changed, and in order to fulfill the peace agreement that has already been in court, which has already been proven a hundred times, we have to go to court again, and the court will know how to deal with it, a million years, right? And this agreement, well, I see in the hall, of course, is not enough to vote in favour of this law, it's a very important law, it simplifies the relationship between the creditor and the debtor. That is, the peace agreement was signed, no court went to the executive service, and the executive service was in compliance with that decision. And no problem. True, there are problems with the executive service itself because it does not fulfill the many decisions that have been made in Ukraine today, and it does not. But I think that when you listened to my suggestions on Mr. Lavrinovich, the first laws he should have passed, you wouldn't have listened to me. About corruption in the executive service. I have nothing to do with Mr. Secretary. But I'm telling you. That the executive service is fully destabilized today. It works if Lavrinovich says it's on a case or if the president calls. We must not allow the new President or the new Government to allow such things to happen tomorrow. These were the first laws to be adopted by the Ministry of Justice. And as for the reputable line, I consider it to be the conscience of the Communists of Boris Olejnik, that I am closing some accounts. If God didn't give you, someone bad, all I'm saying is that a man who's trapped can't pass the laws that you vote for and take, because they can be laid in them, I'm telling you as a lawyer, you'll see how these laws end. I don't even pay attention to them because I know that this man who was behind the murder of Gongadze and got his job after he successfully investigated him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u87	Yes, please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the bill. There are some ingredients that I'd like to draw your attention to. In particular, the author of the Leonid Mikhailovich project proposes to change the title of the article of the third Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. The real name is called "the decisions to be carried out by the State Executive Service which." But he's offering to name it. the title of the article “Documents that are subject to execution by the State Executive Service”. We think that replacing the term "decision" with "document" in article 3 of the law is an accident. The Ministry of Justice believes that such a replacement will make this article unworkable. These are different things -- decisions and documents. The Supreme Court feels the same way. The next proposal is about the law on changes, about the executive congregation, and the order in which it is drawn up. This is both the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice not supporting this position and the Ministry of Finance. However, our committee has decided to make a decision on the basis of which we can improve these proposals. There's a "gold in the middle," and I think we can fix it in the second reading. That's the committee's offer. That's why this bill is brought to your attention, and I ask him to support it on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, let's support this bill. Well, if you don't mind, those of you who signed in, please, please, in a minute. Then it's a weak microphone, followed by Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u90	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Dniproperty. I would like to pay attention, fellow believers, to that second change in article 43. I want you to take our practice into account once again when we stand up for the rights of citizens. We sometimes somehow force the executive service that it can make whatever debt it has in front of citizens or any other institution. And that's when we force it, then it's the turn. The next line is the salary, the pension fund, and so forth, and when the existing law makes the necessary withdrawal for the benefit of someone claiming to be in court, the money is no longer available. I want to point out that maybe it's appropriate to move to fourth place, maybe even if there's some kind of debt court decision going to be made there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u91	Thank you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Respectable national MPs certainly have rational seeds in this project. I wouldn't argue with the title, because the same implementing letter, as to whether it's a decision or a document, is clearly a document in which a decision is made, whether it's someone's will or the will of the subject. It can be defined differently. This is not principled. The principle is that according to the State Budget Act 2004 50 per cent of the executive assembly of the State Executive Service is part of the income of the General Fund of the State Budget of Ukraine, and 50 per cent of the executive congregation is one of the sources of the creation of the State Budget Special Fund and is in the process of implementing enforcement measures to ensure the enforcement of decisions. If this money doesn't come in, we're going to cut the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u93	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Yuri Anatolyovich! I agree with the need to protect the rights of citizens. But above all, the protection of citizens’ rights is to enforce judicial decisions and decisions by other authorities. As a major of several calls, I have been approached by a number of citizens on the grounds that there are no decisions, why I may be so eager to stand up for all the steps that are being taken in that direction to increase efficiency, improve service efficiency, and make them work more effectively. The weakest link in the judicial system is the executive service. In this bill, Chernevski is trying to bypass it, he is trying to simplify the relationship between the creditor and the debtor in specific cases, so that they can negotiate with each other and avoid interference by the executive service. I think such an offer deserves support. She's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yuri Anatoliyovich, we agreed to get support from the hall that we would be discussing drafts within minutes. You said your opinion, I think it's quite logical and concluded that the bill should be taken as a basis in the first reading, so I'm using the recommendation of Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin and the committee of profile in which he works to put the voting on the basis of the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Implementing the Enforcement of Decisions. Bill 6023. Please vote. [[17:46:26]] For 207 Yeah, let's put it in, but that's the offer. Who's to come back?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u96	I've made a fair observation about Carmazin. Who's to go back to voting on this bill, please vote. [[17:47:01]] For 237 So I'm voting on the adoption in the first reading on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Performing Conduct, registration number 6023. Please vote. [[17:47:29]] For 237 Thank you. Don't let the Bulba National Deputy get offended, but where she's planted, that's where she grows, so that's not what you're doing. The draft Law amending article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code, registration number 5434, is pending. [[on the alienation of the child’s property]] Please, Samuel Catherine of Simeon. Prepare the Mussians.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! It's a very good law to protect our children's rights with you and not just ours. The meaning of the bill is simple. In the current Family Code, there is no rule that parents do not have the right without the authority of care and care to make contracts that are subject to notarial certification, to waive their children’s property rights, to distribute, to exchange, to alienate, to issue written obligations regarding housing, and so forth. This was the norm in the Marriage Code and the Family Code, which became invalid in connection with the adoption of the Family Code. This is also the norm in the Ukrainian Children's Protection Act. But there are letters coming to our committee. Such cases are very common in Ukraine when parents who do not use the same standard in the Family Code leave their children homeless, actually throw them on the street with the proper consequences. Therefore, it is proposed that the prescribed bill be adopted both in the first reading and as the law of Ukraine, and that legal relations be settled in relation to the management of the child’s property, the elimination of disagreements between acts of effective legislation, the protection of the child’s property and housing rights, and the prevention of the loss of children’s housing at the initiative of unscrupulous parents. The Special Committee reviewed the amendments to the bill and supported them, as the Scientific and Experimental Department proposes to adopt in the first reading and as the law of Ukraine, but there was some clarification on the Committee, as the author of the bill I agree with it and ask you all to support and vote on amendments to the Law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u98	Thank you, Catherine Seed. From the committee, Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, the bill is really important, even though it is short. Just part one, article 177 of the Family Code, which sounds like this, I'll give you a name to understand what it's about. "If a minor has the property of a parent and is managed without special authority, and parents are obliged to listen to the child's opinion on how to manage his property," that's what that part sounds like. It's suggested that if the child has the right property, the adoptive parents, they manage it as guardians and caregivers, without special authorization, the parents are obliged to take into account the child's opinion on how to manage its property. The point is that right now, about all the agreements that Mrs. Catherine was talking about, you can only do with custody, care. They, parents, are in control of this activity by directing their children’s property. The committee believes that this is an extremely important proposal and suggests that it be accepted in the first reading, on the basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing this meeting for 15 minutes, if you don't mind, come on. Yes. Then, one more thing, will you please be good for a minute? Please, Melniczuk, get ready for Carmazin. Melniczuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u101	One minute. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. And in general, as far as children are concerned, the socialists have always supported all the laws that have to do with protecting children, and I think that today, as many of us as there are here, we have to support this bill. We believe that this will be another step for parliamentarians regarding children. The socialists have supported and will support the future of our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u102	Thank you. What about the Villager Association, Mikhail Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u103	The peasant community will also support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u104	Thank you. Please, Karmazin, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u105	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, what are we now asking about adopting this law? And because you didn't want to hear your thoughts, you didn't take it into account when you passed the law of the new Family Code, because you were yelling, "Come on, take it, it's enough minutes, Adam Ivanovich, this is what you've been yelling all along." And now it's suggested that something new? It is suggested that we go back to the practice that existed before 1 January 2004 in the word, although it is more appropriate to do as Musiak says, not to listen to the idea that it is written in the draft, so it is impossible to accept as a whole, but to take into account the idea that Musiak said, and besides "parents" to write "adoptors". It's not written either. And this was all written in the old project. So, Your Honor, I really don't like it when people don't want to study legislation and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u106	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u107	I'd like to adopt this bill, but I'd like to write an imperative bill specifically, because we can't change that right now, we're going to have to accept it in the second reading, but we can accept it in the first reading. So as a member of this committee, I'm saying that it's impossible in general right now, because again we're going to do children no better, we're going to do worse. I ask you to accept the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u108	Thank you. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich Chernewicki, one minute. And we'll figure it out. Ah, Cherniak, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u109	I want to say this. Czernovetski, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine. I get into trouble when drunk kids have kids, they rent them out and sell them apartments, all the time. A lot more than speakers. No, the speakers may be more faced, I don't want to touch anyone. I want to tell you, this is a crazy idea. She's going to be behind 30 million people right now. Normal people can't handle anything. Because for everything, part, even pens, part of the property will be children. It's another one. We need to pass a law to finally start some work with the drunkards. That's the problem. Because there's plenty of drug addicts. Drunkards are a nightmare. They give birth to children, rent them out, do whatever they want with them. But what you're suggesting is something fantastic. Is that what you trust your children to do? That they won't be able to change their apartment or their car tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u110	One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u111	You'll actually deprive them of their full rights, yes. That's why it's a good idea. Realisation is a caroule. God forbid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u112	Please, it's a black guy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, there are two things. First. That we allow for a lack of work. We often adopt laws and even codes in haste and allow for substantial inaccuracies, to say the least, that was allowed in the adoption of the Family Code. That's the first one. And the second. It's a child's rights. Thus, the Family Code did not take into account the rights of the child. And now we have to go back to this question in order to take them more fully into account. But once again, it's not exactly the right thing to do, and I agree with those who spoke here. It is not simply a matter of listening to the child’s opinion in the management of property but of taking into account the child’s opinion. The point is that these are the adoptive parents. I think this can be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. And now we can accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u114	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. Dear colleagues, please listen very carefully: I propose to support the committee's opinion on accepting it as a law, but taking into account the suggestions made by both Viktor Lavrentiovich and Yuri Anatoliyevich, speaking here, and Cherniak, who also confirmed their opinions. So I'm taking into account the proposals of Musiyak, Cherniak and others to accept it as a law. It is about voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending article 177 of the Ukrainian Family Code on the alienation of the child’s belongings as proposed by the people’s deputies. [[5434]] Please vote. [[17:58:55]] For 209 Dear colleagues, I repeat: are we returning to normal with you, as Yuri Anatolyevich rightly said, which one existed there? Until 01.2004. So we literally have to go back to what worked. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please support. [[5:59:36]] For 213 Yes, for the next session. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Sudokustura in Ukraine. [[on the position of First Deputy]] Number 5488, Karnauh, please. Get ready for Onionepka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Your view is on the draft law, which provides for the introduction of the first substitutes for the heads of the local courts. It is known that following the adoption of the new version of the Ukrainian Judicial Act, the Ukrainian Law on Economic Courts, which provided for the office of the first deputy judge of the court, became invalid. The master courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts, the cities of Kiev, and Sevastopol were referred to the local courts, that is, to the level of the district districts in the cities. But the specific activity of these judges, for example, is that the total number of employees in the agricultural courts of Zaporzik, Donetsk, Kharkiv and Kyiv ranges from 149 to 245, including 50 judges. Thus, I consider it appropriate to provide in the structure of the local courts for the office of the first deputy head of the court. This law does not require any financial costs and is recommended both by the Chief Scientific and Expert Administration and by the Committee of Profiles for adoption, both in the first reading and in general, both by law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u116	Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is that the draft law proposes to legitimize the fact that it already exists today. Because in the farm courts, the local farm courts have the positions of first deputy, and there are people working there, and they get the right salary. But when we were working on the Courtship Act in 2002, it was actually a technical problem, so I would say, missing. That is why we support the amendment of the Judicial Act. And perhaps it would be desirable to take it as a basis. And that's the position of the Ministry of Justice. In the second reading, introduce the office of first substitute and in the courts of general jurisdiction because. But in those courts of general jurisdiction -- Mikola Sergiyovich, I think you support -- where the number of judges is more, let's say, 15. Such an offer was made to the committee because there may be no head of the court, and someone has to do the duty. So, then, he has to perform his duties automatically as the first deputy. That is why we would suggest a basis, and in the second reading, we would like to refine and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Please, Carmazine's microphone for one minute, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u119	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! It's about that, as Vasil Vasilovich put it, actually the whole system law was missing and you know why. He was made under pressure when it was threatened that Mikola Melnichenko would become a national deputy and then put the second to the vote, and it was passed. Today, I remember the adoption of that law on the system of things. And there's such a shortage. And that's not what this is all about. That the President is single-handedly appointed to the executive positions of the judges. But now the proposal of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenka is correct, because the Law on the Court of Justice contains provisions relating to the composition of local courts, this is article 21. And it is there that it is necessary to provide for the appointment of the first substitute in large courts, as well as in the household courts. Although I believe that they should have purely technical functions and give no direction to the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thus, the adoption vote is based solely on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice of Ukraine on the post of First Deputy. [[Registration number 5448]] Please vote. [[18:04:53]] For 212 Dear colleagues! Prepare for the vote, please. Who's to go back to voting on this bill? [[6:05:38]] For 238. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on the Court of Justice, 5448 registrations, please vote. Yes. 238, Law passed. Dear colleagues, let's make one more wise decision, I've put the previous Act on the Adoption of It Right as the Law, maybe let's take it in the first reading, this is Bill 5434, amending Article 177 of the Family Code, please vote. [[18:06:06]] For 238. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, let us make another wise decision. I've passed the previous law on the adoption of it as a law, so maybe we should adopt it in the first reading. This is Bill 5434 on Amendments to Article 177 of the Family Code. First reading. Please vote. [[18:06:44]] For 241 Thank you. The law was adopted, more faithfully, in the first reading. And we have yet another bill -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on the responsibility for the transport of illegal migrants]] Author of Karnauh Bill, 2612. Can we vote on this bill? The first reading is the attitude. Excuse me, from the committee, please, Alexiyuk. Take down the vote. An Alexieu from the committee. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u121	Sergei Alexiyuk, Ukrainian People’s Party, Viktor Yushchenka’s Block The Legislative Security Committee considered the bill. The bill proposes to establish the administrative responsibility of drivers of transport vehicles for the transport of illegal migrants and equipment for transport by means of specially hidden or masked transport facilities. The Committee is of the view that it is possible to recommend to the Supreme Council that the proposed bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we'll put it in order. I understand. We heard the committee's opinion. That's why I'm talking about adopting a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 2612 in the first reading. Please vote. [[18:08:33]] For-127 There was a proposal for a profile committee to work on. Let's send it back to re-reading. Please vote. [[18:08:56]] For-151 Please, Karnauhu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u123	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this law is aimed at countering illegal migration, which is linked to the fact that this migration threatens our national security and creates conditions for various, including tourism. So I'm going to work on this and put this project into the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-01-12-m1.u124	That's absolutely right. Yes, on this, dear fellows, we have done everything planned today. I am truly grateful for your fruitful work. So let's do the same productive work tomorrow, what's more, tomorrow, Thursday. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 o'clock.
