ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:20]] Registered in the 386 National Deputies Session Hall, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Alexia Kozachenko. Let us welcome our colleague and wish us every success. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 I inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the minutes of the meeting of the Socialist Party MP of Ukraine on March 17, 2005, that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk, has been elected as the authorized representative of this faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies of the Drought of the Tatyana Volodymyrovina into the membership of the MP's "Soyuz", Matvienka Pavel Volodymyrovich into the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. The walkie-talkie microphone, please. Rattling. I'm sorry, Ratchet Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, could I have your attention? Dear colleagues! A few days ago, he went to another world of patriarchs of Rome, a man who in his life demonstrated the tolerance that was in Ukraine at a time when Ukraine could find itself in world isolation, Pope John Paul II. I propose that the Ukrainian Parliament honor this man's life by a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u3	Please get up. Please sit down. Yes, the honourable colleagues, the two factions -- the faction of the Socialist Party and the faction of the "One Ukraine" party -- are demanding a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules. In practice, if you are ready to comment on the reason why you would like to take a break, who will speak? Bogdan Hubsky, "One Ukraine" faction, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the “One Ukraine ” party and the Socialist Party of Ukraine express their deep concern about the situation of the April 1st fine of people who have failed the compulsory car insurance procedure. We know with you what huge social resonance this event has gained, and every day, hundreds of people, hundreds of drivers from low-income families, veterans and disabled people, who are outraged by this situation, as they say. 17 bucks for them is a lot of money. And at this level of income, which is in Ukraine today, and it's not big, because the minimum subsistence wage is at least 300 dollars, this burden of these fines, as well as payments of about 300 dollars a year, it's impossible for the budget of the Ukrainian family. And in the vast majority of their owners of the old gigulos, the old shellfish, the moscows, they don't have the physical ability to pay for that money. You and I need to understand this clearly. At the request of the electorate, Bill No. 7097 was introduced, which is now proposed to exclude the issue of "Compulsory insurance of cars with mandatory insurance. We are convinced that today is not the time for compulsory insurance. You have to create a working group that will study tariffs and create a normal law that will allow people to actually pay money, because today, for example, out of a hundred dollars received by insurance companies, only six or seven dollars, according to statistics, is paid to car owners. That's a small amount, that's fair. Tell me, which one of you is for robbing people? Tell me, who's against the cancellation of compulsory insurance? Raise your hand. No one does. Oh, two, three out of 450 national deputies, three. So tell me, please, why we can't put this question to a vote, why this question hasn't been brought up for two weeks now, because I am confident that when we consider this question, there will be a majority, 300 votes. On the basis of this, we ask that we eliminate the mandatory insurance of cars for voting, vote in the first and second ballots, then create an appropriate working group with the participation of national MPs, government, experts, and work out a new law that would, first of all, give people social protection, give people the opportunity to finally feel human beings, because they can't be, excuse me, like rams, pull and say, "Pay 300 dollars a year," and not explain where that money goes. Where does this money go? There is no answer to that question. Thank you for your attention. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please support this initiative. And before that, we thank you all for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed at the Conciliation Council on Monday that on Thursday we would ask these questions, there are six bills. Well, let's ask Wednesday -- there's no questions, and we'll definitely consider them. So from the procedure, please log in for three minutes. Sign up for me, please! Please! Please, Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, I'd like to ask you not to hand over your duties to Bogdan Gubski. I think you're the only one who has the right to ask MPs to raise their hands, he's not yet the speaker of the Supreme Council. And second of all, the order of the order of the day. Well, first of all, this advice of yours isn't some legal body, so the order of the day, formed for this week, can't be considered simply approved. This is some direction that we can work on, and we can change it. There are many suggestions that can and can be ruled out because of their unwillingness, so the proposal is that the agenda per week was voted on by the entire composition of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u7	This is contrary to the Rules. The Supreme Council only approves the agenda of the day session, and the schedule of meetings is the prerogative of the Conciliation Council. But the Supreme Council may refuse to consider any matter or propose any question to be determined by a vote. Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u8	Fucking Communist faction. Please give Kravchenka to Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u9	Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u10	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Vladimir Mihajlovich, on 17 December, my bill to postpone the introduction of auto insurance is in the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the Conciliation Board unanimously approved what it had to consider on Wednesday. I request that this issue be included on Wednesday and that a final decision be taken. Why? It is already politicized, and now almost 1 billion additional public fees are planned in the budget, which is illegal. Therefore, a convincing request for Act 6406 to be included on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! We agreed, in principle, and Mikola Vasilovich, that we will set Wednesday to do so. It's on Thursday, and we agreed that we're moving it to Wednesday and we're looking at it on Wednesday. That's the deal. The team's already gone. We agreed that on Wednesday we would consider the matter, make a final decision. Vladimir Julius Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I want to say that I've already insured myself, I've gone through this whole insurance procedure, and I think I can take insurance and pay today, and tomorrow I don't know. And most of the population, I don't think they're going to be able to pay for this insurance. So it's about why voluntary insurance became mandatory, including the police involved, all the authorities in control. What is volunteerism? Let's take a look at it, because, obviously, when we voted, somewhere, either out of a voice or out of a voice, we took the wrong thing. We have to vote for this insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Thus, dear colleagues, time is running out. Just a minute. This way. Please, calm down. Don't control me. There'll be time. Please, calm down. Dear colleagues! So we agree that on Wednesday we're asking this question to be considered and made a decision. Dear colleagues! On March 22, 2005, the Central Election Commission registered Kelestina Valerija Vasilovich, Laupina Ksenija Mihailnovna and Tkalenka Aleksandra Sergiyovich, and on March 31, 2005, Kiselova Alexandra Volodymyrovic and Pjijenova Mikhaila Alexandrovič with the Ukrainian National Deputies in the multi-managing national constituency constituency from the electoral bloc of the political parties, the Victorian bloc of "Our Ukraine" and the social-democracy party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kelestin Valeriy Vasilovich, please, is invited. Dear colleagues, I think because we've done everything we can, perhaps these posters could be recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u14	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the welfare of the Ukrainian people, to uphold the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, we welcome Valérie Vasilovich and wish us a joint fruitful work. Kiselov Aleksandar Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u16	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the welfare of the Ukrainian people, to uphold the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Alexander Volodymyrovich. Leapina Kseniya Mikhailnovna is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u18	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to care for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people, to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Kseniya Mikhailnovna. Educated Mikhailo Aleksandrovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u20	I am. I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Mikhail Alexanderovich. Tkalenko Alexander Sergiyovich is invited to take an oath to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u22	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of my fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Alexander Sergiyovich and wish you fruitful work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the presence of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Ms. Alexander Volodymyrovich, as part of the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the membership of the Ukrainian National Party of Bartkov Vasil. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. I haven't announced another statement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, articles 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the presence of the Wheeler Valerius Vasilovich as part of the Ukrainian People’s Party’s Dept. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearings on Freedom of Conscience is under review. Identity of person" for the transfer of hearings from April 6th to November-December 2005. Dear colleagues, is there a need to make a report on this matter? We adopted a decree to hold parliamentary hearings on April 6. However, first, we have little time to prepare this issue for consideration, and secondly, we have so many parliamentary hearings for this month. But we have two rulings on this: the first decision is to move parliamentary hearings to November-December 2005. And there is a second decision to consider this issue during the parliamentary hearings on June 29, 2005. Please, for the reasons of Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have heard that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed with the chairman of the committee to be transferred to June 29th. What are we getting out of? You and I have no right to defer this matter to November-December month. So it's going to be a completely different session. And that's why we have to, Vladimir Mikhailovich, transfer only the date to June 29th. We voted on the decision ourselves, we have to postpone the date, I emphasize again, on June 29th. We agreed on this on the Conciliation Council yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u25	Chubarov's reaction, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u26	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I would like to say that we can't create such a practice when, you know, we build a line of future parliamentary hearings for all the convocations. I think if we make a decision about a date, it should only be within one session. That's the first one. Secondly, I am, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I think we need to find some differentiation in parliamentary hearings. Let's say we have the practice of our committee when we hold enough parliamentary hearings within the committee itself, inviting a large number of experts. And then we can avoid being in this room building a turn for parliamentary hearings. I think that this is a question that is proposed to be put to the hearing, which is exactly the kind of question that could be considered within the committee itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u27	Thank you. Rudzikowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u28	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In no way can we move this issue to the fall, it must be considered in this session, because there is a widespread attack on the Ukrainian Orthodox Canonic Church, we know that the President's Administration is involved in creating a local church. There's pressure everywhere. We in the Supreme Council have to discuss this issue so that there is no interference with religion. This is the first time. Secondly, we know that at every step people face what they need, they don't take jobs without proper identification codes and so on, a complicated procedure. This needs to be discussed in the Supreme Council, listening to people, and making decisions so that more believers will never be pressured by authority. We live in new conditions, the President has declared no interference. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we are simply talking about transferring parliamentary hearings because the decision you made on April 6 is unrealistic for us. This is not really a discussion of the subject. But since there are many willing people, please write down three minutes to exchange reasons for voting on this matter. Please sign in for three minutes. Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u30	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear friends, the need to move the matter to a later period is, well, obvious. Tomorrow we will not be able to conduct it physically without serious preparation. My colleague Rudzkowski's arguments that this issue is related to the plight of the Orthodox Canonic Church, well, that is ridiculous. That's the question that's being formulated in a completely different way. And so this is a question, first of all, for preparation, you have to put it to the tax committee to give its opinion, and a lot of other structures have to express themselves on this point, not just that, not that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u31	Alexy Baburin, Communist faction, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u32	May I have the floor to the deputy, Phydenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u33	Please, Phydenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The point is that we still have to make a deal that was reached on the Conciliation Council yesterday. Yesterday, two factions -- a faction of communists and a faction of united social Democrats -- supported it in defense of the Ukrainian Orthodox Canonic Church, even the Socialists did not vote, and the other factions did not support either. Parliamentary hearings should be held. Another matter is that, as agreed, you have to transfer the date. I'd say I should be in this session on the summer of June 29th. The question has been decided that such hearings should be, however, only for the transfer of the date. And on the other hand, I'd like to say that there's a certain conflict, we have a law that we've passed, and a law hanging in the air about codes for Orthodox believers. They're needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u35	Vladimir Plutinski, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Please pass the word to the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u37	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! I would like to recall that when we discussed this issue for the first time, the main resistance of the tax administration was that everything was already regulated by law, but, in fact, in life, it was not in this way, that is, today we need to examine more how the tax administration was implementing the existing laws. And so there's probably no point in us moving it back to November-December, but considering it in June so that it's at a pace that's clear, clear and clear. Moreover, there is a normative framework. We will only consider with you the implementation of existing legislation, in this case a specific tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! We have, in principle, a committee, as we discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday, does not deny that we should consider this issue during parliamentary hearings on June 29th. But, dear fellows, we will have three parliamentary hearings by June. Let's make sure that this is our last approach, because we need to hold one parliamentary hearing a month, another to be transferred to committee hearings. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision to annul the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 17 March 2005 to cancel our decision to hold parliamentary hearings on 6 April 2005 and to hold these hearings on 29 June 2005, as set out in the draft decision of the Samoylik People's Deputy. [[Registration number 7273-1]] [[on the term of parliamentary hearings on "Freedom of conscience, identity of person"]] Please vote. [[10:30:07]] For 327 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in April 2005 is under review. What is the point of the offer, fellow believers? What we have on Government Day, April 12th, was foreseen for 2 questions, is the governance of the government of Ukraine to improve the efficiency of government ownership in the statutory funds of privatised societies and societies formed by the state. At the same time, on the same day, it was suggested that consideration should be given to measures that had been taken to eliminate the consequences of the accident at Chernobyl’s AES. That is, considering two questions will not allow any of them to be fully considered. Therefore, it is suggested that the first question be removed from consideration on April 12 and conducted later. A draft of the relevant order, number 7288, has been introduced. For reasons, please sign in for three minutes. Jaroslav Kenzier, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u40	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. There is an absolute need to transfer the hearing of "Government Day" to a later date, perhaps not even a date today, but if we have information about the willingness and willingness of the government to listen to such a hearing, then determine a date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u41	Vladimir Yeshchenko The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u42	Even, the Communist faction, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, needs to pay first attention to the Government's price rises that are taking place today throughout Ukraine and, including in the Cherkas region, the work in our district has shown, indeed, those decisions that the Government is making today are not supported by people. So I think if we move the day of the Ukrainian government to a different time, it's going to take government officials to come and inform the population of Ukraine, what's going to happen to the prices of basic food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u43	Basil Nadrag, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u44	Vassili Nadrag, People's Party. Dear colleagues, it is believed that, when we approach the vote today, we must be clear with you that the issue of Chernobyl, the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, especially with regard to the social protection of the victims, needs to be addressed without delay. Because it's not a secret that for a few years social payments are frozen to the black market, we're also raising pensions, raising wages, making other social payments, it's all stopped for the black-beaters. That is why we need to consider this issue, and we need to look at the healing of the Chernobyl population as a whole, and we need to look more closely at this topic, so I think that in all our votes, we must take into account: the problem of Chernobyl and Chernobyl today is so urgent that it cannot be postponed. We must focus on this topic as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u45	Yes. Dmitry Rudkovski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u46	I ask you to pass the word to Mikola Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u47	Mikola Rudkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u48	Rudkowski, Socialist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. It seems to me that our faction has discussed today that the most pressing issue is the preparation for the sowing process today, the planting process and the provision of all the necessary supplies for our village, because it began very quickly in the spring. The government began to take action, but it needed the support of the Supreme Council. So far, the Ministry of Finance has not provided funds to pay compensation for the improvement of the land. It seems to us that we need to hear the government about fuel prices, about financial support, so that this year we can have a merger within that time frame and be provided at the right level, as previously stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in April 2005 is put to the vote. [[Registration number 7288]] Please vote. [[10:35:34]] For-300 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Code of Conduct for Ukrainian civil servants is being announced for consideration. The committee's proposing this procedure, and I ask you to listen carefully, and then we'll determine: for the report, four minutes, for the answer to the question to the reporter, five minutes, for the co-report, four minutes, for the answer to the question to the co-rapporteur, five minutes, for the discussion and decision-making, seven minutes. Maybe give me at least 15 minutes. No warning? Gennady Samofal, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u50	Gennady Samofalov, faction of "Regions of Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, the country's new leadership has embarked on the fight against corruption. All you have to do is say hello. To this end, the 2nd draft of the Law was prepared by Kosivim, Slabenko and other members of the People's Deputies of the Civil Service. I want to tell you that I thought we could welcome you, I just want to tell you one thing, that on 3 April 2003, the Zamofalov MPs, the Potapovs, were introduced a draft law on the Code of Conduct for Ukrainian Civil Servants. Why is our draft law not being tabled today? I therefore demand that consideration of this law be postponed. In the next plenary meeting, two bills should be considered in the procedure established by the Rules. Ours, by the way, has been there for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u51	I'm asking the Secretariat to clear up and prepare an immediate help so that we can answer our colleagues and Hennadia Samofalova. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, a sufficiently serious draft law, a law that applies to hundreds of thousands of citizens, and in fact millions, because the integrity, the ethics of the civil servant depend on our electorate, depends on all Ukrainians. What is the procedure that involves seven minutes of discussion and decision - making? That's two performances. Well, respectable, even a reduced procedure, and that provides for two "for", two "against", or 12 minutes. I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, at least 15 minutes, as you have suggested, that we agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u53	So I suggested this procedure. Andrew School, please. Dear colleagues, this is a project we're discussing or we're talking about with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I agree with the previous statement that there is little time left to discuss this bill, because on the other hand it is also surprising that another bill has not been passed, and generally, as far as I know, another bill is being prepared by the State Service. And so, perhaps it would be more fair to translate into another term a bill with a view to reaching an understanding, or else it would still have to be remembered that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Service are probably even interested in having a quality code of conduct for a civil servant to have less claim to their employees. And in general, I insist that this code is necessary, because in principle, the code itself allows it to work qualitatively for those government officials who want it. That's why my proposal is this: you could talk about it right now, but optimize it this way, knowing that the State Service Bill is being drafted, but still consider transferring the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, if we are to go this way, we must stop the Supreme Council and wait for what they will prepare and pass. There are legislators who have the right to make proposals. Yes, I would like to answer to the honourable Gennady of Samofal, that on February 19, 2004, in accordance with the Supreme Council's decree, this bill was removed from consideration, and we voted in favour of it. Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u56	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region, Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I support your offer. Let's move on to the issues that are on the agenda today. And there's nothing to discuss when to reject it. Today we need to discuss, and perhaps in the discussion we will see, as the MPs say, the Ministry of Justice and others who respond from the government, from the national MPs. Let's move on to the agenda. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you: the situation is extremely difficult in agriculture, the oil traders have already increased the price by three bracelets, the administration of justice is arresting the accounts of the companies for not employing the disabled. We now have 80 percent of those who do not have a job in the country. Look at the senselessness that is being done! And let's do this situation in the village, we'll find, even though we'll talk for 30 minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, let's talk about this, if there's a proposal, we'll look at it in the form of a draft decision, and then we'll figure it out. The situation is indeed difficult. We will likely have to intervene again in this matter. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a draft Code of Conduct for Ukrainian civil servants. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stanislav Anatoly Kosinov, is invited to the report. Anatoly Volodymyrovich Orzhachowski will be the co-report of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u58	Kosinov, People's Party faction, 170th constituency, town of Kharkiv. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The need to adopt the Code of Conduct for Ukrainian civil servants is linked to the role of government officials in the country’s life. For the honor of belonging to government and the respect afforded by the office should be accompanied by the sense of responsibility of a public official and the awareness of the importance of this work and the expectations of ordinary citizens of the activities of public officials. The National Anti - Corruption Programme, approved by the Presidential Decree of April 10, 1997, required the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and submit to Parliament by November 1, 1997, a draft code of conduct for a civil servant. The responsible authorities were: the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Department of Public Service at the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. The need to define ethical requirements for the activities of a civil servant and to generalize them in the code of conduct of a civil servant is emphasized in the concept of administrative reform in Ukraine, approved by the President’s Decree of 1998. This is also indicated in the concept of combating corruption for 1998-2005. They're similar. More recent legal acts are included. Until then, however, I emphasize that the relevant codex has not been drafted and submitted for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. On July 23, 1996, the International Code of Conduct for State Officials was adopted. In November 1997, the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers adopted resolutions on 20 basic principles of combating corruption, paragraph 10 of which emphasizes that States should ensure the adoption of such regulations on public service, the rights and obligations of public officials, which take into account the requirements of anti-corruption and provide for effective measures of disciplinary responsibility, and ensure that appropriate means are defined, first and foremost, by ethical codes of conduct, such forms of behaviour of public officials who are desirable in society. In May 2000, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe approved a code of conduct for the civil servant as a supplement to the recommendation. I would like to focus briefly on the goals of this codex. First of all, it is to ensure the confidence of society and citizens in the public service, to enhance the authority of the public service and the reputation of public officials, to ensure the effective performance of the tasks and functions of public authorities. Preventing corruption in public authorities; enhancing public impact on the assessment and quality of government activities; informing natural and legal persons about the conduct they are capable of expecting from government officials. Considering that this code is very much needed today and that it contains the standards of many laws and regulations, I propose and ask you to support this code in the first reading. A few suggestions came from both the committees and from the head office of Ukraine, and if it was accepted in the first reading, I think these comments would be included in the second reading. Moreover, in the government's efforts to implement the "Meet the People" programme! One of these measures is that, in April of this year, the Cabinet of Ministers should be developed and a similar codex should be submitted for Parliament’s consideration. So I don't think we need to take time right now and there's every possibility that we're going to start.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u59	Allow me to finish my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u60	So I don't think there's any point in delaying time and there's every possibility to start working on this document right now, supporting it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u61	On your question, Your Honor, please sign up for the reporter. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u62	Boris Bespaliy, a committee on local self-government, secretary of the committee. We considered the bill on the committee, and there was virtually no such proposal that an additional document should be adopted in a declarative manner. So my question is this. Should we not, however, consider this component, the ethical component, which is, clearly, an ingredient, the legislation in general on local self-government, the legislation on public service, because a large number of declarative documents do not contribute to the resolution of the issue? And secondly, did you work with the Chief State Service, who is actually preparing a serious new edition of the Public Service Act to take your proposals into account, or it might come out that one good idea will bury another even better.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u63	Thank you for asking. In my statement, I said that since 1997, the President's decree had provided for the development of this normative act along with other government bodies, including the Chief Staff. It has been over eight years, but unfortunately it did not come from the Chief Ministry. But this did not prevent us from sharing our thoughts on the committee and to conclude that this document was necessary, but we did not have a final decision on this document. And in answer to your question about how many declaratory norms, I would like to point out that today there is not a single legal instrument that our citizen would have if he violated his rights, he could have appealed to the court by referring to a specific rule of law that allows for the adoption of the Code. So I don't think you need to just look at it at the angle of the declaratory rules, but, above all, as a document that allows for a clear reference to the law when it comes to court.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u64	Andrew Polit, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u65	Andrey Polit, faction of the Company. Please pass the word to Sergei Gmyre.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u66	Sergei Gmira, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u67	Thank you, Andrei. Tell me, please, how does your bill regulate the phenomenon that I'm going to talk about right now? I read documents originating from the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine. And there is the signature of Zinchenko, the Secretary of State of Ukraine. Vladimir Mihajlovich, you have served in the President's administration in your own time, but you have never come to your head to sign a public administrator of Ukraine or a head of State administration of Ukraine. I think it's a question of ethics. It would be more logical to sign: the head of the secretariat of the President of Ukraine, and the signatures we have are my political responsibility. How does your bill resolve this ethically important issue, in my opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u68	This document, it does not regulate the name of the office of officials, because it is a different matter and it refers to the President's decrees, where he defines the name of a state institution and, accordingly, the head of the institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u69	Please, Basil Nadrag, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the People's Party faction will certainly support you and because you have a good position and a normal offer. But to a greater extent, I must have wanted to point out the lack of consistency of the Government at first. Because there's a government opinion that says your bill has to be repealed. However, the draft proposals and activities that the Government has allocated to the Government's programme “To meet people” are expected to develop and adopt a similar code of conduct, as they call it literally, before June of this year. I mean, in a big way, it's your idea. I have a question of the next order: and someone with Kabmin talked to you about it, or it's on different roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u71	Thank you for asking, I would like to say that: first, there has been no communication with Kabmin so far, but I would not like to emphasize this, I would like to say that the authors of the bill have not invented the bicycle. Since it is a world European practice, it is necessary to have relevant documents in its domestic legislation. I would like, first of all, to be guided by common sense rather than by the drag of a canat: who initiated a bill first. Since this was in practice and in the experience of previous years in Parliament, three years that we have been doing exclusively, sometimes we have voted in principle, if this opposition does not support the majority and vice versa. I would like us to abandon this principle, abandon it and be guided only if it meets the requirements of time, so it is necessary to maintain it. And who will be the initiator, whether the Cabinet of Ministers, or the people's deputies, there are largely no differences in principle. The main thing is that we develop and improve the document and start working on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u72	Please, Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u73	Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Please tell me, is your bill introducing a new law field? Because there is the Law on State Service, there are other laws governing conduct. If, for example, a government official takes bribes or engages in corruption, articles of the Criminal Code are distributed to him, and if not the Criminal Code, the Administrative Code. And it is not clear that a person who goes to public service should be a patriot, a professional, and a decent person. I think your bill only takes up precious time with the national MPs. He brings nothing new, and he is unnecessary. And I call for a vote against him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that some of the innovations are about. are different from the documents that relate to this issue. First, it's a conflict of interest, a situation where a civil servant has a private interest in himself or members of his family or family and he. This document contains ways to get out of this situation, the responsibility of a civil servant. Secondly, there are many rules regarding information about the work of a civil servant. But on your question that he's not relevant to this time, I disagree with you, and I don't think that this document is perfect. But our work together, including with the Chief of Staff and with the Cabinet of Ministers, will resolve this issue. Because today, when this paper was discussed on the committees, all I heard was criticism. But to my question, and what you're suggesting, no one has answered anything that's understandable. I mean, today it's based on the criticism of this document, but I think it's necessary to work on it, not just criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u75	Thank you, Stanislav Anatoliovich, please sit down. From the committee, the head of the State Building and Local Government Subcommittee, Anatoly Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government, discussed on November 3, 2004, at its meeting the draft Code of Conduct for the Civil Service Officer, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Kosinov, Slaben, Bartszfeld, and Hirschfeld, which was designed to improve legislative standards that would define ethical requirements for the activities of public officials. The committee does not object to the purpose of the bill and considers it appropriate to continue to use the relevant novels in the drafting of the new legislation on public service. At the same time, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government agrees with the findings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which proposes to reject the project. And he notes that the project fully duplicates the large number of normative provisions contained in the Ukrainian State Service and Anti-Corruption Laws, which should be implemented through the use of references to relevant laws and norms. The formulations of some duplicated regulations differ in substance from those applied in valid laws, which will create problems in the application of these provisions in practice. Much of the project's provisions are, as has already been said here, declarative and impractical. And the control over their execution and the application of sanctions in the event of their non-compliance is not determined. The project contains terms, formulations and norms that can be interpreted in ambiguous ways. The project, based on European experience, does not take into account the significant differences between European and Ukrainian legislation. The structure and scope of the project does not correspond to the concept of codex, which has been incorporated into our domestic legal system. On the basis of what I have said above, the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be rescinded a project that is the authors of the National Deputy Kosinov, Slabenko and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u77	Thank you. Any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Three minutes. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Your Honor, I agree with you most of the thesis. Please tell me if you have considered such a problem. Maybe we've adopted the concept of the Code of Conduct for civil servants, because it's not a code, and it's not a code at the level of preparation. Well, you know what I mean. You said only a fraction of what he actually deserved. But it may be necessary to determine conceptually how to build a code and do it, to draw up all the norms of all normative acts, including taxation, including declaration, including declaration of expenditure, not declaration of income today, as it is happening, which is absolutely not playing a positive role in society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u79	Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, I must tell you that this is the right of national MPs who are initiating a bill or a code, if they thought that appropriate legislation should be systematized or then introduced and called the concept of public service. Yeah. So, in principle, I can agree with your opinion, because today, really, the problem of human resources policy in the state, and this is really going to be about public service, self-government, and so on, needs detailed analysis and development. But today, I think the authors, after a positive or negative decision by the Supreme Council, will start working with the Chief State Service, and if they want to, they will work with the relevant committees to listen to those recommendations that have also been made by the scientific and expert government that has suggested that they can make changes to the relevant laws, they will continue to do so. Now, personally today, I think, and our comrades in the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government are interested in the question of how we adhere to a law or a law, because, in fact, what laws we don't adopt or then merge them into codes, but if we don't implement both the Constitution and the relevant laws, the matter will not go away, because what we do today in the human resources policy of the state is not in any existing laws. So I have to say that, really, we should thank the people's deputies only for raising this question, and we have to work in the right field as decided by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u80	I'd like to ask you a quick and concise answer next time, because three minutes of the answer to the question is a little too much. Samofal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u81	Gennady Samofalov, faction of "Regions of Ukraine". Dear Anatoly Vladimirović, I appeal once again to the draft law that was passed by the people's deputies of Samofalov and Potapov on 3 April 2003. I compared the draft law that was passed by our colleagues Kosinov, Slabenko and others, almost a repetition of our draft law. Moreover, I must say that we, as drafters of the bill, have not been on any committee: neither on any committee, nor on any other committee. And I don't know why. The Supreme Council, as it has lost its relevance and validity and requires substantial work, has withdrawn our draft law. I'd like that. The only difference, perhaps, is that the draft law was proposed to be put into effect after publication, and here, on the second of April, which the draft law was proposed to take effect from January 1st of this year. I think it's insane. Therefore, I would like to ask you a personal question: whether it is worth adopting this draft law today, especially since the conclusion is, in principle, relevant to the new draft law, he makes it clear that it should be further elaborated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u82	Thank you, Gennady Grigorovich. I agree with you, and in my co-report, I said that the committee's decision to reject, as the bill really does, today does not meet the relevant rules of the code. And as for your problem, I think there's the Regulatory Committee and the Supreme Council Secretariat, they have to give you an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u83	Have a seat, please. As agreed, 15 minutes for discussion. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u84	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. In principle, it can be accepted that this law should be adopted because, in fact, public servants are the largest group of corruption actors, even though they are paid high wages that are not comparable to that of the common people. Ask me why. Because the root of evil is in the system of government, which has been created and polished for 14 years, so-called reforms. And life has shown with an eye that the Presidents of Ukraine are the main perpetrators of all the troubles that our people are experiencing. Therefore, the only way out of the country's critical state is through the transition to the parliamentary-presidential system of power, with its further transition to the parliamentary republic. If we continue to maintain this system of power, no laws and codes of reunification will improve the situation in the country, the people will continue to suffer. With reference to today's topic, I propose the adoption of the proposed law in short terms, for corruption in public authorities, to bring perpetrators to the highest level of punishment, as is done in China. There is simply no other way to eradicate this evil. Take America, which has both the current authority and the previous one, taking first all the negative things, but for some reason they have not taken a higher punishment than they intend to abolish. Is that an accident? Of course not. We have been specifically imposed on us by the European penal system, requiring the abolition of the maximum penalty, and they have pursued one goal to ensure that we are consumed in corruption. And the result, as you can see, is true. Dear colleagues! If you have lost much of your sense of reality, the basic professionalism that involves knowing the situation in your positions, then get out of the limo with dark glass, get on an electric bus or a train bus, and immediately understand what they think, with pain and anger, ordinary people all over Ukraine are talking about. And they say that there has been another power in Ukraine, but only a dismal mob and a people of lawlessness. I bring those words literally. This is the assessment of the people in the current system of government and its leadership. And maybe there's too much to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u85	Alexander Masenko, a faction of Communists, has the word. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners, voters! The behavior of government officials must be regulated to put their activities within a framework. But there is no way to compare this bill, which is a codex. The code in our mind is more important than the 18-page bill. Therefore, we cannot agree that this is a codex. And the bill just duplicates the provisions of the State Service Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, and some others. And, in my opinion, if that's the case. So we need to start from above, set clear standards of conduct for ministers, prime ministers, senior officials, heads of administrations, and then the lower government officials will act within an appropriate framework. Remember when Deputy Prime Minister Tomenko used to sit here, and how arrogant he was in the presence of the national MPs. It's in the Supreme Council. He would have to be put in some kind of frame of reference so that he wouldn't have behaved like that. Or something that doesn't reflect how many accomplices we have, now more than 30 people who don't comply with the law, and what standards of conduct we need to apply to them. Can anyone believe that the head coach in Ukraine does not receive a penny for training the football team? No one will believe that. And, you see, the President has already made peace, and the senior officials have agreed that whatever happens, because it's probably the money of Surkis that worked in that direction, and it's no longer the norm. Try to resolve a matter with a civil servant, get into reception. Even this is difficult for a national to speak of. Remember, in the Voice of Ukraine it was printed that in Poltava there an official was caught in a hot spot when he demanded a woman to take her to the head of the government. I'm not saying that there may be no blame on the head of the government, but there are such conditions that a person cannot be accepted and then there is such a situation, I can't agree with article 8, where it's about loyalty, where he says: a civil servant is obliged to refrain from public statements, opinions and assessments about the activities of public authorities. They went before the elections and said one thing, and then they came into executive power and now they're saying another and they can't, and whoever has a principle position, they have no right in accordance with this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party faction, followed by Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u88	Oleg Zarubinsky, People's Party faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, is enough to hear the title of the bill of the Code of Conduct for Ukrainian civil servants to exclaim, as it once was fashionable: a question of course interesting. But joking about it, and thinking about the rules of conduct and ethics of civil servants, it's a really interesting and very important question. From this point of view, I like the emphasis in the brief preamble to the bill that one of the functions of the Code is that it is designed to inform individuals and legal persons: whose conduct they are able to expect from government officials. Ensuring the trust of society in the public service and its officials is a natural, moral and ethical key to the bill. The codex is written in a logical, selective English language. It was even embarrassing to find faults, but I will try. First, it will be difficult to refer to it, so the articles broken down, as always, into certain segments, paragraphs need to be marked accordingly. For example: 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, and so forth. The second is a code that is made from a position of authority, it feels like a view from a mountain to a smaller congregation, but in the public service there are not only Corporals, there are generals and the higher the rank, so there must be a higher personal responsibility, it's not in the project. By the way, I'm going to send out some interesting polls published in Political Management this year. One out of five civil servants in Ukraine went to the service only because they had no other choice. It is such a coincidence that it is a cause for dissatisfaction with its activities. Among those polled, 70 percent of the individual’s dissatisfaction with decision - making, 42 percent of the inequitable assessment of his job as a manager, 38 percent of the performance of unforeseeable duties. In this regard, a third point is made. Article 7 says "Professionalism." A government official is obliged to refrain from carrying out another lawful work if he is prevented from doing his work properly. Such delicacy is commendable, but it is a case of both arbitrary practice and leadership. Four. Article 17 of "Gifts" should be combined with article 15 of "Price." Fifth. In article 21, "Political public activity" would not prevent the idea of deporting some public services with the cessation of party membership for a period of official powers. In general, I support the project and I want to believe that it will be brought to a condition for second reading and will contribute to the formation of a high culture of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u89	Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National MPs, of course, the codex I have prepared, even in its size, I am showing just to those who can't see it, 25 articles of man-made. does not fit the code definition, absolutely not. I'm not talking about the content, there's been a lot of talk about it. I'm not saying that, as the explanatory note indicates, this bill was drafted on the basis of a model code of conduct for civil servants adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe as recommendation number R 2000-10. That's right, there. It's very good that we started reading such documents and very well, there are some features of this European codex. But we have to consider our Ukrainian realities. We need to see that in Europe there is someone to turn to, there are authorities that control the behavior of government officials. We don't have these organs. I have addressed you and I say, so rudely and cynically violated the Law on the Status of National Deputies as Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Reactions are zero. Not by the Prime Minister, not by the President, not by the Head of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, honourable Ukrainians, there was a remarkable event yesterday in the history of democracy in Ukraine. The coastal district court of Odessa restored justice and decided to invalidate the decision of the territorial electoral commission regarding the registration of Bodelan as the city’s head and to recognize Edward Gurvice as the winner of the 2002 election. The decision placed a dot in one of the most brutal election campaigns of the Bushmism era. But in spite of the voter's will, despite the exitpol data that Gurvetz received 2.3 votes higher, the commission unlawfully acknowledged Ruslan Bodelain as a result of the falsifications of the protocols. And in order to conceal the facts of this forgery, the team used electoral documentation, threats, violence, and similar criminal acts to be destroyed. Whether such standards are needed for such people and for the distribution of them to officials of local self - government. Yes, I do. Then it would be clear that one’s own son should not simply be handed over with a pen, an airport like municipal property, as Bodelan did. It would have been clear that just as much property could not be passed on, and as the prophylaxis and sanatoriums were passed on, 34 tombs brought them to the decimation, showed the destruction of these. So, honorable, as a concept, this law can be viewed as a codex that does not. That's why I'm not voting for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u92	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! Clearly, the very ideology of the bill is in need of support. We simply have a warning, in the faction of the Socialist Party, that this bill is not perfect and that it can be accepted in an editorial way as it is taught today is impossible. And that's why the faction has determined that we will support the proposal of both the committee and the science-expert administration for the purpose of drafting the bill. Here many of my colleagues have expressed themselves about what needs to be done in the state so that the civil servant can be really brought back to the people. Of course, it should be done, and it should be done immediately. Because yesterday and even today there is a lack of concern for officials, and there is some misunderstanding about those who come to them to solve problems. I said the faction's position on this point. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to speak, to make another warning. I would like us to understand today one thing that happened in Ukraine is the situation in the agrarian complex. Of course, it needs the attention and support of the government today. There is no agreement that is between the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers and the oil traders, and the producers of fertilizers. Look at the price of fuel today. Nobody wants to talk at all. Even three bracelets are no longer released today. I just got a call from the city of Novoselice in Cherniewec, where the District Administration of Justice, Mr. Hodoba, was blocking bank accounts for the vendors. And that fell on the peasants' head today. I'm not talking about fertilizers that went for 200 bucks in one week. I'm not talking about the loans that only Prominestbank gives to farmers today. What should we do in such a situation? Parliament, as always, must respond immediately to this situation. We should invite the Prime Minister here, invite those oil traders, producers of fertilizers, and let them explain to the people of Ukraine why this situation, why there is no agreement that they have signed with the government of Ukraine. And so Parliament must respond to this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u93	Thank you. Yeah, we're 15 minutes out. From the government is there a need to speak? None. Now, before the vote on Proskuratov's motives, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u94	Thank you. Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. With regard to the principles of direct action set out in the bill, we consider very appropriate the position of the 21st article to be a political activity, which states that public officials take part in political and other public activities only outside of their service obligations, as well as that public officials are prohibited from using their positions in the interests of political parties, other public organizations, and from expressing their views on political parties. Since, in view of the politicalization of the executive power that takes place most actively right now, as well as the possible strengthening of this process in relation to the election to the Supreme Council to take place in 2006, we find the legislative consolidation of the above principles very useful. The project can be accepted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u95	Thank you. Question completed. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law on the Code of Conduct for Ukrainian Civil Servants, Bill 5585. [[11:21:35]] For-68 The decision is not supported. So the project is rejected. And let's advise the author of the bill, here's the suggestion that, in fact, these ideas that he put into the bill need to be used in further work on basics, let's say, laws, in order for them to not go away. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next question, two factions of the "Ukraine" and the "Democratic Initiatives" MPs are asking for breaks, but they agreed that they would use this time to announce. Please, Nicholas Komar.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u96	Honorable MPs and voters. Mikola Komar, faction of Ukraine. We are drawing public attention to the unprecedented fact that the current power of democracy and respect for the law, namely the political, illegal pressure on the city's head, Odessa, an experienced expert, an authoritative leader, leader of the local organization of the "Regions" party, Ruslan Bodelan. We find it particularly impressive and immoral that the judicial body is the instrument for such illegal pressure. On Monday, April 4, Justice Odessa Svetlana Jarost, of the Coastal Court, made an unwarranted decision, in our view, that the city’s territorial election commission was obliged to revoke its decision on April 3, 2002, according to which the city’s head was recognized as Ruslan Bodelan. Another point in her decision was that Judge Jaróz had the election commission to register with the city’s head, Odessa Eduard Gurveitz. We believe that the actions and decisions of the court only show the absolute interest of the judge and some political forces in achieving the goal of ridding the person whom today’s authorities consider to be their opponent. The trial itself took place on the condition that the reasons for the decision to be reviewed by the Odessa electoral commission were not available until three years later, any reasonable time for such a review as well. The trial involved the maximum violations of material and procedural law. On two occasions, the court ignored the demand of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to refer the case to it and to change its jurisdiction. The court did not examine the written and video evidence added to the case at all, nor was the concern of Bodelan’s representatives satisfied, and even their appearance in court debates was limited in time. The document that was the basis for this resonant trial -- the expert conclusion for today is being sued in one of the courts in Kiev and could not be considered as evidence, but the judge did not take that into account either. Even assuming that the territorial election commission had committed gross and systematic violations, why the court had never reinstated the rights of the electorate, why each voice was echoed irrespective of who he was loyal to, was ignored, and it was the judge who decided who to consider elected as the city’s head. Today, we are witnessing the introduction of the present - day authority of the primitive mechanism for the realization of our political desires. When there is no legal basis or even reasonable basis for the realization of its purpose, the Ukrainian court and the prosecutor’s office act as an obedient instrument. We demand that the courts cease the practice of carrying out political orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! This is the subject of draft laws on the disciplinary statute of the tax police, the State Tax Service of Ukraine and amending certain laws, registration numbers 3658, 3659, 3660. [[on the liability of officials of the tax police]] Reporting from the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergey Dmitrovich Čelnokov and co-rapporteur will be the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Bandurk Alexander Markovich. This is a rule, your colleagues: for the reporter, up to five minutes, the answers to the questions, up to five minutes, for the co-rapporteur, 3 and 3, and for the 15-minute discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you. Sergey Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u98	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The current and the need for a draft Ukrainian Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Tax Police, which is being submitted to your consideration, is that, unfortunately, the analysis of Ukrainian legislation on the responsibility of military personnel, internal affairs officials and the Tax Police shows imperfection, the lack of reasonableness of the concept that is being applied, and then it needs to be reformed on the basis of new scientific developments. Currently, according to article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Tax Service, the officers of the tax police are subject to disciplinary responsibility, according to the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs authorities, approved by the decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of 29 July 1991. But this does not contribute to the strengthening of the rule of law, since the statute set out does not meet the requirements of article 92, paragraph 22, of the Constitution, it does not contain the basic concepts necessary for the implementation of disciplinary responsibility. The document does not establish a mechanism for the exercise of disciplinary responsibility for the commission of administrative misconduct. The document also contains many other shortcomings, including the enforcement of the right to appeal against the decision of the superiors to impose an imposition. Especially should it be noted that the legal status of members of the tax police differs greatly from that of the police. First of all, because the legal status of police personnel is governed by the Ukrainian Police Act. The police are part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, they are doing administrative, preventive, operational-search, criminal. Procedural, executive and protective on contractual principles of function. The main task of the militia is to perform a law enforcement function. The legal status of the tax police is determined by the Ukrainian State Tax Service Act, and they perform, in addition to the law enforcement function, a financial control function which is, by the way, their main function. These individuals do not refer either to military personnel or to members of the military and headquarters of the internal affairs bodies. The main task of the tax police is to protect the economic interests of the state. In our view, the subject’s disciplinary responsibility, which has significantly different legal status, cannot be regulated by a single normative document that does not take into account the specificities of the subject’s status. In this case, the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs bodies, which, in addition, has a large number of shortcomings and does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, attracting tax police personnel to disciplinary responsibility for the disciplinary statute of internal affairs bodies is unjustifiable and does not properly support the rule of law in their departments. The proposed disciplinary statute for the tax police of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, prepared to take account of recent scientific developments in this direction, is discussed at meetings of specialized pulpit, both the National Academy of State Tax Services of Ukraine and other UCCs. The proposed document takes into account the shortcomings of the current disciplinary statutes of the Ukrainian armed forces and internal affairs authorities, as well as relevant draft disciplinary statutes. The adoption of the bill will not only improve the legal regulation of one of the more visible bodies in the Ukrainian system of economic control, but also give a corresponding impetus to the development of disciplinary legislation that regulates the responsibility of other special subjects. In addition, attracting tax police personnel to the responsibility of the disciplinary charter, which has taken into account all the characteristics of the activities of the designated persons, will be one of the means of ensuring the rule of law in tax police units. In general, the draft of the tax police disciplinary statute is prepared in line with the main directions of administrative reform and is in line with the interests of not only the taxpayers themselves, but also what we consider to be very important, and the taxpayers. With regard to Bills Nos. 3659 and 3660, they provide for appropriate amendments to existing legislation, including article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine and the Code on Administrative Offences. In case of adoption by the Supreme Council of the proposed draft Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Tax Police. That's why they only make sense in a positive vote for the first bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Please sign up for the question. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u100	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Motherland Defenders, thank you for your report. I just had a very interesting question. Please tell me, because the status of internal affairs officials and tax police personnel is not different. There's no difference between status, there's no difference in flow and there's a flow from tax authorities to internal affairs, and there's a flow of personnel. Would it not be appropriate to adopt one law that would be distributed as a disciplinary statute to both those police officers and others, and to other units of the same judicial militia? You know, they're going to be a new statute once again, if there's a question of separation. And that we're going to make every law. I want you to tell me why we're going to squander the field. Maybe we'll make it a general concept, we'll take it and we'll say it's spread to something like that, like that, like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u101	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyevich. Well, I would like to answer that question in this way. As I said in my report, a number of functions of the tax inspectors, in particular the financial control functions of the police, do not exist. Therefore, it will be difficult to take into account in one document all the nuances that the tax police have in this case. So, well, your proposal could be considered if the question was, say, transfer of the tax police to the structure of the internal affairs bodies. Until this issue is resolved, however, we believe that it is appropriate to have a disciplinary charter of its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u102	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u103	Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please give the floor to National Deputy Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u104	Vladimir Novak, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u105	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Thank you. Dear Sergey Dmitrovich, what is necessary and necessary to enact such a law does not raise any doubt, because those people who are struggling to control everyone and all of them need to be placed within some legal framework. But as the author of the law would like to ask whether it would be appropriate to extend to tax police officers the disciplinary responsibility for a special disciplinary statute. After all, a disciplined charter by form is a means of forcing one or the other to work. And the term "forced" or "compulsory" work can only apply to urban work. And according to the current legislation on State protection of court officials and law enforcement agencies, the tax police is a law enforcement body, and it does not refer to military authorities. This is how the author of the law can be explained, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u106	Yeah. Dear colleague, well, what I'd like to say about that. You understand that today you must agree that the tax police are one of the main monitoring bodies that controls economic actors. And, of course, various violations, including disciplinary ones, are possible in the performance of their official duties on their part. Under current legislation, it is virtually impossible to bring to justice the taxpayers of the tax police for their offences, including disciplinary and administrative offences. Because today's disciplinary statute of the Internal Affairs Authority, which they are now governed by, firstly, it does not meet the requirements of the current Constitution, as I have mentioned. Secondly, he does not take into account a number of specific functions performed by the tax police authorities. To date, it is not possible to bring these people to justice by law. Any decision can be challenged in a court of law, and we will not get the result. We therefore believe that such a disciplinary statute is needed today. You know, our armed forces are living under discipline today. There is a disciplinary statute of the Internal Affairs Authority. We have recently considered the disciplinary statute of the customs service. I mean, I think it's normal for administrative reform to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u107	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u108	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mr. Reporter, I think everyone will agree that the current disciplinary statute of the Internal Affairs Authority is outdated and does not really correspond in part to the Constitution. But as with some others, I have doubts and doubts about the need for this charter to be adopted by law alone. And there's this question, you know, how appropriate today in terms of administrative reform, maybe it will eventually end, to adopt a disciplinary charter of the tax police, which may soon cease to exist. Have you considered this question? Is there some temporaryity in the proposed bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u109	Thank you for asking. I would like to draw the attention of distinguished colleagues to the date of registration of this bill. It was registered almost two years ago. When the bill was discussed at a committee meeting, our fellow MPs had no comments on the substance of the bill. But the arguments were the ones you're talking about today. The question of the elimination of such a structure is being considered at all, and it may be placed in the structure of internal affairs bodies, perhaps significantly reduced by the authority of the tax police. However, you can see that the discussion is still ongoing -- two years have passed. Today, the Minister of Finance says that it may be appropriate to reorganize the transfer of this service to the Ministry of Finance. The new chief of tax administration said no, this structure must be preserved. We need the tax police and so on and so forth. I think this discussion may not last another year. Therefore, I believe that the adoption of such a bill, which would settle legal relations in this case, is relevant and timely. You can at least accept it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u110	Sergei Dmitrovitch, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Alexander Markovich Bandurka is the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u111	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I wanted to draw attention to a few circumstances that the bills that we are currently considering in the package, three of them, were filed on June 20, 2003. So there's been a lot of water, a change in the state tax administration, its forms and methods of work, and, in particular, the tax police. So these bills are already out of date. Secondly, you and I have approved the government's programme of activities "To meet the people," where on page 9 it is written "to settle the tax police," and no one has made any changes. So I think we need to focus on the government's programme of activity, which we so cordially approved, not today to perpetuate the rudimentary, which is actually a tax militia in the State Tax Administration system. And finally, third. The DPA's leadership has changed, new leaders who have their own species and visions for reforming the tax system. In their conversation, they would ask them not to accept these documents as far as they intend to introduce legislation after studying the situation. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement and a year ago considered the three bills submitted by the National Deputy Sergey Dmitrovich Chelnokov and, before today, the laws on the disciplinary statute of the Ukrainian State Tax Police, the draft amendments to article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on State Tax Service in Ukraine and the draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, recommends that the bill be rejected and that the National Tax Administration of Ukraine prepare and implement a corresponding bill through the Cabinet of Ministers, using the positions proposed today by Čelnokov Sergey Dmitrovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the question to Alexander Markovich, if there is, please sign up. Yes, on the board, please give the names of the national deputies. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u113	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Say, please, Your Honor Alexander Markovich, you're like five times a member of the Supreme Council, I'd like to hear your opinion on the constitutionality of the transition to a lower office in the order of discipline, the constitutionality of the position that exists now, including in the militia and in the tax police, those I've asked about the unconstitutionality before the old government, before the new President, well, before the new President I haven't been able to put -- I'm still going to ask. So, in view of that, how do we feel about the positions that are now being proposed here? Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u114	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. And a colleague of Chelnokov spoke of the fact that the disciplinary statute of internal affairs is also outdated, and today it is a quasi-repressive character, not an organizational-educational one. I agree with you that all these provisions regarding the system of punishment and encouragement should be in the state that has declared in the article of the first Constitution of Ukraine that Ukraine is an independent, sovereign, democratic, social and legal state, must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u115	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Dear Alexander Markovich, we have, I recall, had a discussion about the militia and the police, and I'm focusing on this. And secondly, in this regard, in European countries and in the European Union, where we are trying so hard to integrate, is there a tax police, or police, and if it exists, what is the difference between its functions and those laid down in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u117	Thank you. When we were looking at military reform here, I was in favour of demilitarizing our nation. We've got 17 uniforms, including I've been talking about tax police. Her president used to be a tax police, and she didn't take that name. When we passed the law, we called that classic term "militia." In European countries, neither the tax police nor the tax police are available, there are financial authorities, including those who are forced to act, have control functions, but they are not militarized.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u118	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Markovich, you are a specialist and expert in security matters. Tell me, please, how legitimate it is to claim that, to date, there is a great difference in status, in tasks, and so on, even in the legislative enforcement of internal affairs and the tax police. So these are so different structures that they can't actually exist on a single regulatory basis. Your opinion as a specialist, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u120	Thank you. The question has the right to be framed. The difference is, but the rights and powers are the same as those relating to the procedural status that the Internal Affairs Police, that the police officers of the tax system have the same rights, procedural powers and powers. Should this difference be deepened? Today, however, the tax police are using the disciplinary statute of the internal affairs authorities. In due course, the MPs from Our Ukraine introduced it, and we discussed it on the committee, a bill on the transfer of the tax police to the internal affairs system, particularly the Department of Economic Crime Control. Today, the question is, I'm back on the government's agenda, the reorganization, the elimination of the tax police, so that's why we, the committee, took this decision into consideration and made it. And the difference is, you've noticed correctly, there's no legal status.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u121	Thank you, Alexander Markovich, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please have the names of the national MPs who signed up for the discussion for 15 minutes. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u122	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Observance of the rule of law and discipline is central to the work of the tax police. The confidence or negative attitude of citizens toward the state and its activities is also influenced by contacts with officials of the Ukrainian Tax Police as a fairly large group of officials. The adoption of this law will allow for the regulation of relationships related to the establishment and provision of service discipline, the application of incentives and discipline to tax police officers. It would be good, especially in today’s circumstances, if the use of statutory regulations would greatly increase the level of discipline and law enforcement in the Tax Departments of the State Tax Service. In recent years, 229 tax officials have been attracted by tax officials for committing corruption. According to the law enforcement authorities, the courts were held responsible for the corruption of 164 taxpayers and 99 criminal cases were committed against tax officials. Facts about illegal activity by tax officials are unacceptable. There's probably nothing wrong with the personnel, because today requires high-quality tax police personnel to be trained, to be more professional, to be trained by specialists in law enforcement, accounting, and auditing. I don't think there's enough work to do to train tax police investigators. An important political and organizational factor for today is the process of modernizing and developing the State Tax Service. Tax authorities already need to define strategic directions of work today, and the State Tax Service needs to create the right conditions for the successful functioning of the tax police, improving the organization and continuously improving the efficiency of its activities, professional skills, and this will make a significant contribution to the fight against crime in the economic sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u123	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction, is invited to speak. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u124	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there are two sides to each document, as there are two sides to the medal. And I want us to look on the other side of this tax police medal, this disciplinary charter. Alexander Markovich mentioned that "To meet people" has the task of eliminating the tax police. And even if this is supported by those leaders who came to the government tax administration, they have their views on this. But I do mention the famous expression of the most outstanding poet of the Soviet era, Vladimir Majakovsky: "My militia is guarding me." Now, let's remember with you: what's different from the police, which we've protested when some of our colleagues have tried to use that word in our society, in our country. Militia is an armed people, the police are mercenaries with guns. Who do they serve? Whether it's a capitalist state, or it's a municipality, municipal services, or some other local government. If the law allows you to keep your own police, the police. So if you'll excuse me, I have the impression that we've forgotten a little bit about why the police are doing this, or the police are creating it. For the purpose of submerging fat? When white oligarchs sat in power, they sunk the fat in the oranges using the tax militia. When oranges are in power, they're using tax police or police to submerge fat in blue-and-whites, but whether it's for the benefit of the people themselves. For when the masters are tempted, regardless of their color, it is in the people that the plagues are broken. And the demilitarization of the state. It's like if we eliminate the use of a term like the police or the police, and people go to civilian, we're going to have the demilitarization of the state. Instead of the great army that protected our nation and our people, we have the comforting armies of the so - called peacekeepers. And instead of the police and the police, we'll have bandits who hire every oligarch. So let's look on both sides and on the other side. And if the police need it, and let it protect our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u125	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, Vasily Nadraga, faction of the People's Party. The dual feeling is now on the subject under discussion. Why? Because, on the one hand, carefully enough, the disciplinary statute of the tax police is sufficiently comprehensive. And that's probably the right thing to do. On the other hand, it raises questions and doubts as to the position of the professionals who have expressed it here and in the face of the Head of the Sectoral Committee and the Scientific and Expert Council, who say that there are so far several fundamental elements that are not possible, let us say, to continue the legislation with regard to the establishment of a separate tax police disciplinary statute. Why? That's the subject here. Well, first and foremost. Today, the question is whether there will be an overall formation. Because the current executive power proposes to eliminate it. There is much to discuss today as to whether or not we need to be eliminated. But if it is eliminated, why are we taking our own time, the time of the rest of our colleagues, discussing what is not going to happen? Next moment. To date, there is a disciplinary charter of internal affairs bodies that are disseminated and enjoyed by the tax police. In any case, I specifically asked the specialist, our distinguished Alexander Markovich, a specialist, the General of the Internal Affairs Office, who replied that, in large measure, there were no fundamental differences between the tax police and the ordinary, the internal affairs authorities, in terms of the disciplinary statute and everything else, respectively. Therefore, I think there is no point in supporting this bill today. While there are a number of positive points that I think both the Internal Affairs Authority and the tax police have the right to use as a work, including for the development of their own internal regulatory framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u127	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Next is Michaela Melnchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u128	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the author for raising a very large price for problems. And to be honest, I reacted responsibly to them. Another question is that these problems were posed in mid - 2003 and today in 2006. And in view of that, I think that maybe the law is the way it is, we won't have to accept the need. But that's how it's going to be, for example, I'm sorry that big work is failing. As for the fact that there were different views as to whether or not the tax police were needed. I would like to make a very unpopular point for most of those who have spoken in the audience today. What do we want to do in the state today? We want to get the economy out of the shadows. Fifty percent or more of Ukraine’s gross domestic product — about $200 billion — is in the shadow of our two annual budgets. I'm answering a question: Do I need a tax police or not? Today it's necessary to get everything out of the shadows. But not the kind of tax police that would do the job and say, well, that's where it's, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, that's in, in, that's in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, And then I go to everyone absolutely, and it turns out that the teams were given. It was already known later, from Melnick's film to destroy an organ like the Village News. And the tax police lieutenant, illiterately on one sheet, issued a decree and arrested the entire 700th edition of the newspaper. That's what happened. It's from history. And then I raised these questions, and I couldn't understand why. I would also like us to be different about the world experience. Look. It's a financial security company in Italy. Oh, oh, oh, what a serious unit and squirming everyone. Financial agents in the United States protect the President of the United States. So I'm going to answer the question whether there are one or not. And now for some of the questions that are here. I see here a violation of the Constitution that a comprehensive list of the reasons why they can make their statements is article 86. I believe that the statute that is now approved by the decree of the Presidency of the Supreme Council is unconstitutional and that's why I asked the question. So all of them need to be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u129	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u130	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Cherniewec region, the All-Ukrainian Association of Landowners and Estates. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, radio listeners! Bills 5658, 5659 factions were determined to support. Of course, we, like speaking fellow national deputies, are we also thinking that tax police are needed today, today? Perhaps it has already played a role in society, as we will say, one of the tools of opposition pressure, pressure on those who disagreed with the authorities. Maybe it's already done. And on this point, do we need to see if there's any abuse in this tax structure today, that is, the police? Many examples. I could do dozens of examples here. About a year and a half ago, from this rostrum, I had to speak repeatedly about the tax police in the Chernivecki region. Of course, those fines did not pass the courts, they were flabbergasted, but the people who were in pursuit remained clean, and who, we will speak, terrorized the enterprise. We have to adopt these bills. Will they work or not? Probably not, because the question is, there will be no tax police. So I've already said the faction's opinion, and I'd like to put it another way. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, now we're being told that oil traders can't help but raise oil prices, and that hit the power plant because Russia raised oil prices. It is, and it does not work, and the treaty ratified about the EP does not work. But I'd like to go to the government and say something else: every month in Ukraine, oil-sort production is 240 thousand tons, please tell me, and who's the influence here? This is nadra, this is our oil, this is what our Ukraine is rich in. Can't we get a percentage of cheap oil from here for farmers? What, the government's hands don't reach this oil? Let's leave Russia, take our oil. Today, we can supply cheap oil for farmers. And we need to do it now, and it's gonna be a week late. Don't our businesses today produce minivans? Do we have an impact on these enterprises? We do. Why aren't the hands coming? How are these enterprises privatized? This is where reprivatization would certainly not confuse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u131	Yes, from the government, please, Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Grigory Mikolayovich Operanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm just on the bill. Indeed, this question would be relevant and relevant in 2003. Today the situation has changed: those issues that concern the activities of the tax police are defined by the Tax Service Act and the Police Act. There are no other outstanding issues. And believe us, the new tax management team is working very hard today to change the image not only of the tax police, but of the tax service as a whole, in order for the tax service to actually perform those functions of budgeting, and above all to comply with tax legislation. The other one. I would like to thank the people's deputy Chelnokov, who took the initiative, and again, in 2003, this was the relevance. I'd like to ask you to support the proposal of a profile committee: to reject, not support this bill today, which we don't think is relevant today. Please don't be offended by the author. And believe me, we are working today to make really fundamental changes to the legislation that regulates our activities, so that we can work only in law and in the interests of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, the draft laws of 3658, 3659, 3660 have been discussed. With a motive, please. I see a lot. Please sign up for three minutes. Ah, written down, yes, there is then. Shurma, please. And the black man is written down. I'm sorry. Please, Shurma. And then Nigger. And Vitaly Shibko is also written down. Here are three of the motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u134	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Frankly, I don't understand what we're talking about today and what we're going to do. Today we have a person who determines the strategic course of state development, this is Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, President. On Mayan Independence, in one of his decrees, he promised to settle in the State Tax Administration's tax department. He, by the way, then promised that by April 1, the government would introduce a draft Tax Code. Today you should ask the present Mr. Sobolev, the President of Ukraine is going to do those things or not? Because if the tax police are eliminated, what code are we talking about today? And if this is just another conversation that we're getting used to, we need to get back to the more serious preparation of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u135	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Then Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u136	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I respect the intellectual legislative efforts of our colleagues, and maybe it really does matter when these laws were passed, but right now I have the impression that we actually have some kind of legislative sum. I don't even understand how legislative projects come into order. Well, it's a copy of the legislative work. We have so many unresolved issues. By the way, the same tax code, and it's our debt to Parliament's huge and legislative debt, and we're not doing it, we're doing small things, we're doing legislative work. By the way, I agree with what has already been said, so far the issue of the status of the tax police has not been resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u137	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction, Dniproperty. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I recall when we discussed this issue outside that Supreme Council chamber, then I spoke and expressed doubts as to whether there should be any tax militia at all, but then the House voted and there are really great doubts today, and today much is about what will be reform, and perhaps this tax police will not be at all. But who can tell today. When will it be reformed? These are government purposes. The government can't predict today that this is going to happen, let's say, this year. And the tax police exist, there are problems that exist. And even if we think about what many colleagues have said against it today, we need to sort out the activities of this tax police, if there's even a month left, and we've spent time on it. That's why I think we should vote, and then when the question is done, we'll cancel that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u139	Thank you, Vitalia Yakovich. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the regulations, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Disciplinary Statute of the Tax Police of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, registration number 3658, is put to the vote for adoption. Please vote. [[12:07:43]] For-82 The decision is not taken. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on State Taxation in Ukraine. Difference of vote. Please, it's Chelnokov's microphone. No, no, no. Please turn on Cellokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u140	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There is no point in putting two of the following bills to the vote now, because they are completely linked and made sense only if we had voted favourably in favour of the first bill. They amend existing legislation subject to the adoption of a disciplinary statute by the tax police. Since we voted against it, there is no point in voting. So let's save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u141	I thank you for this offer. Dear colleagues! In view of the committee’s proposal to reject the bill, the Supreme Council did not support its adoption as a basis. So the conclusion is that the bill, registration number 3658, 3659, 3660 - is rejected. Moreover, this coincided with the position of the author of the bill. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National MP, I inform you of the withdrawal from the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mr. Dashutin Grigori Petrovich. Further, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I'm informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the departure of Ukrainian National Deputy Kruk Yuri Borisovich from the deputy faction of the People's Democratic Party and the group "Republic" and the origin of yoga as part of the deputy faction of the Yulia bloc of Timoshenko of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union "Batkashina", the Ukrainian Republican Party "Sobor", the Ukrainian Socialist Party. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Přívonova Mikhajla Alexandrovich, Tkachenka Alexandra Sergiyovitch to the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine", Sinchenka Sergija Grigorovič to form the deputy faction of the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, the political parties of the All-Ukrainian union "Fatherschina", the Ukrainian Republican Party "Sobor", the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party. Dear colleagues. What? [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, two factions: Our Ukraine faction and the Yulia bloc faction, Timoshenko, have applied for a recess, according to the regulations, to hold consultations. But during the technological break we had, the factions identified the reason they needed a break and are now ready to make a statement. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich? Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich has a word for the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u144	A statement by the deputy factions "Our Ukraine" and the block of Julia Timoshenko on the situation in Odessa. Today, there was a great lie about yesterday’s events from this rostrum. Yesterday was actually an important event in the history of democracy in Ukraine -- the restoration of justice to the invalidity of the decision of the territorial electoral commission to register Ruslan Bodelan, and was recognized by the winner of the 2002 election, Edward Gurvice. In fact, it is about liberating Odessa from the occupation by criminal law. Even though the Henprocurator’s office had committed a criminal offence on the basis of the electoral documents during the election of Ukraine’s national deputies, local council deputies, and the city’s head, it had not been fully investigated. The case itself closed several times as a result of Bodelan’s crackdown on the falsification of the election results by senior leaders of the state and individual factions of Parliament. The falsification of the results of the election of the Odessa city head was also confirmed by the interim commission of inquiry into the mass violations of electoral legislation during the elections to the Supreme Council and local self - government bodies in the Donetsk region, in the cities of Odessa, Kirovograd in January, March, and June 2002, under the chairmanship of the Ukrainian national deputy. However, today is a difficult time in the history of the Black Sea pearl, we hope to see an end. Here, Judge Jarosh was bewitched, who took the courage of being honest and objectively impartial instead of looking at the case for five days for 12 days. The factions are being considered. I took the liberty of explaining it to the Communists, and I'm asking you to give me time, because I'm getting in the way. Decisions of the Odessa Region in 2000-2003 alienated and transferred to the construction of private houses, the land of 34 sanatoriums. A private firm was actually donated to the Odessa watercourse. The same are the gifted monuments of architecture and art. The land was passed on to land in park and resort areas. Now the end of lawlessness has come, and every crime has to be held accountable. That is why such opposition took place and such a lie in connection with the trial. The MPs "Our Ukraine" and the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, are strongly protesting any illegal attempt to counter the decision of the judiciary. We will do everything we can to ensure that the crimes of forging elections, looting property are fully investigated, and criminals bear strict responsibility. I'm authorized to pass on Odessa's statement to the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, but there are here again. Until we get to the question, two factions -- the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine and the faction of Ukraine, as well as the faction of the Union, I mean, one minute, and a parliamentary group! [[united]] The Union" requires 30 minutes for a break or for a statement, right? Well, please, let's get to work, let's get to work. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u146	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable compatriots, Social Democrats, as well as the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine", other factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who supported Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic during the presidential elections, demonstrated their respect for the law by adopting the ruling of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on 20 January 2005. [[United]] We hoped that this would be a continuation of the rule of law and the law in Ukraine, regardless of how each of us feels about it with his own heart and soul. Yesterday we found that there was no law and rule of law in Ukraine, unfortunately there is not, because the chairman of the Jaroz meeting. Knowing that the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine had asked for a case to be examined regarding the review of the results of the elections in Odessa, he required it to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, shortening the process by excluding it from the process. A stage like the examination of evidence. Clearly, no one was interested in the evidence in this matter. The debate was also limited to 20 minutes only because she probably knew that the representative of the Supreme Court of Ukraine was going there. Also, when the deputy chief of the Court of Appeal of Odessa requested that the case be referred immediately to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, he was not allowed into the courtroom. When I tried to get a letter signed by Judge Jaros by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, she urged the police to force me, the Ukrainian national deputy, out of the room where the session of the Primorski District Court was held. I don't think it's worth reminding you that in its own time, Judge Jaros recognized Gurveitz as mayor in Gurveitz-Kostusev's 1994 complaint. We're here to be the rule of law and law. If, during his activities, Odessa’s city chief violated the law on local self - government or other laws, he should be responsible if this is confirmed as the city’s head. But today I am very interested in what such an independent community of us, the national MPs, are the founders of Carmazin’s helpers, received sanatoriums, and eight acres [8 ha] of land in the city of Odessa? I'm asking you to consider it a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u147	Carmazin, a minute of replica, was called. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u148	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Now I put on the table Volodymyr Mikhailovich's letter of the Odessyts who were present while Nestor Schufrich insulted the deputies, including uncensored. And it says, "What kind of mother gave birth to him is incomprehensible." Read, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is also a component of crime, and all, please, let him read. And now that Yuri Carmazin and the Party of Fatherland's defenders are not allowed to rob the sanatorium and other property of the state, including that they won't or won't let the Fountain sanatorium be looted. There's a hundred men, and this sanatorium works profitablely to let you know, but there's no one among the founders, not Carmazin, there's nobody else that Schufrich wants. I don't know how much Shufresich never needed, you know, he can take a hectare of Desert Water, all the rest of it, and say he's had enough of it, just like his party bons!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u149	Shufrich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u150	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am glad that the previous speaker actually admitted that some independent union of Ukrainian national deputies had privatized sanatoriums and eight hectares of land in Odessa. I'm asking you to deal with this fact, and there's probably a point to return this sanatorium to the Odessa, which we don't know about. I want to say that the mother who gave birth to Nestor Sufrich is Shufrich Maria Petrovna. And I'm sure she's proud of her son. Secondly, I want to say that yesterday we witnessed people going to the courtroom and asking them to sign for what I did against a colleague who had done before. I'll be honest with you, he's not worth talking about or even thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues according to schedule. Re-examination of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine has been announced for consideration in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil and Family Code with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 04.11.2004. The reporter is Justice Minister Roman Zvaric. Prepare for the Legal Policy Committee Musiaci Victor Lavrentiovich. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let me make a little retreat, because I'm very grateful to you that I had the opportunity to be present at this incinerator that just happened, and I can only tell you how much I missed this session hall. And now, essentially. The president of Ukraine assigned me to say the following under this law, which was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, the President of Ukraine supports Ukraine’s law to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Family and Civil Codes, since this law will allow for the introduction of a legislative framework into these two codes. Instead, the President of Ukraine draws the attention of the country’s distinguished national deputies to the fact that section 2 of the law contradicts section 5 of article 94 of the Constitution, which establishes that the law takes effect 10 days from the date of its official publication, unless otherwise provided by the law itself, but not before the date of its publication. In addition, article 58, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that laws do not have a retroactive effect at the time, except when they soften or invalidate a person’s responsibility, does not correspond to the definition of the law that takes effect and is thus to be applied as of 1 January 2004. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes to introduce chapter 2, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as follows: "This law takes effect from the day it was published." For the sake of the transcript, let me also point out that the implementation of the Ukrainian President's draft law on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil and Family Codes does not require additional costs from the Ukrainian State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u153	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, head of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! The history of this bill is, indeed, directly linked to the Civil Code and the Family Code. The decision of the Supreme Council is known to have put them into effect since January 1, 2004. And this law, and it provides for changes to the Civil Procedure Code, as well as to the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. It's about the age from which a person has to agree, from 14 to 18 years of age. This was formerly the situation, and according to the Civil Code, there was no agreement. And if we give back power, as we have stipulated in this law, from January 1st, as well as the codes, to introduce this law, it is a reverse force more than a year. And there were already a lot of appropriate actions and civil law, different rights acquired, status acquired. This could make our citizens worse. Hence, in view of the fact that this position directly contradicts the fifth part of the 94th article of the Constitution, which refers to the law being enacted 10 days after its publication, but not before its publication, it is itself a contradiction. And 58, indeed, an article that foresees the possibility of improving a person’s condition when it comes to a later law, the application of that law, when the responsibility is softened, concludes in this sense that it is necessary to support the President’s proposal and to make this part of the second law, where it is just as proposed, that law takes effect from the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Committee's conclusion to your knowledge is that the position of the Cabinet of Ministers is sounding. So this is about adopting this law in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. There are no reservations to put such a proposal to the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we will now vote. May I have your attention, please? There is a motion for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil and Family Codes in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine of the Cabinet. [[Registration number 3630]] Please vote. [[13:00:03]] For 316 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Law on Combined Heat and Electricity Production and Use of Reduced Energy Potential, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 23.07.2004, has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 2583]] First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy Sold Yuri Vasilovich. Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich will speak from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u156	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Law on Combined Heat and Electricity Production and Use of Reduced Energy Potential for the following reasons. The law provides for more favourable management conditions for owners of cogeneration plants compared to other power - producing industries. Article 9 of the Law thus obliges the organization’s wholesale electricity market and the local energy supplier to take priority on the amount of electricity produced by cogeneration plants. Thus, by creating privileged management conditions for owners of cogeneration facilities, the law violates the constitutional provisions of article 42 concerning the protection of competition by the State in entrepreneurial activities and one of the general principles of management defined in article 6 of the master code of Ukraine, under which the State ensures equal protection of all operators. The stated standards of the law under consideration are not in line with part six of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, which states that all subjects of entrepreneurship in the production and supply of electricity have equal access to the wholesale electricity market and the services of electricity networks. In addition, according to article 25, part two, of the Code of Masters of Ukraine, the authorities of the State and the authorities of local self - government that regulate relations in the field of farming are prohibited from taking acts or taking actions that determine the privileged status of the owners of a particular form of ownership or that place certain categories of subjects on an unequal footing or otherwise violate the rules of competition. The provisions of Article 8, paragraph 4, of the Act on the introduction of State regulation in the field of the use of cogeneration facilities by setting tariffs on electricity and heat produced by the said installations are not consistent with article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. I just want to point out that the National Electricity Regulatory Commission is bound by the requirements of this law to set the purchase price in cogeneration institutions at a level that exceeds today's market price by 30 to 40 percent. It should be noted that interference with the fuel-energy complex by creating unwarranted technologies and special conditions and priorities for individual energy producers can lead to a disruption of Ukraine's energy facilities. Honourable National MPs, taking into account what has been said, please support the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on Combined Production of Heat and Electricity and Use of Saving Energy Potential, regarding its deviation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u157	Thank you, too, sit down, please. Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u158	Respectable national MPs, one of the main directions for the development of world energy today is the development and conduct of cogeneration technologies in the production of electricity, heat and electricity. This is due to the fact that cogeneration allows a 20-30 percent reduction in fuel consumption to produce that amount of heat and electricity compared to traditional technologies, as well as a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions into the environment. In all industrialised countries, the development of congegation is supported and stimulated by the creation of an appropriate legislative framework. In our country, there is a necessary technical and scientific basis for the large-scale introduction of congegation technologies, which, in addition to the above-mentioned gains, will allow for the creation of such deficient peak power capacities for Ukraine at the level of 10-12 thousand. Mg wt, which is equivalent to the power of two Negative Nuclear Power Stations, reduce network losses by 10-15 percent, increase the energy security of individual enterprises and the state as a whole, involve the costs of internal and external investors in the development of Ukraine's energy. But unfortunately, this technology is the technology of the future and the technology of the development of municipal energy. The introduction of this technology will also allow Ukraine to have cheaper electricity and today, using natural gas, to have electricity 30 percent cheaper than it is today. So it's clear that Minpalevenergo is not very good at this law, because in fact this law introduces new generating powers that will compete with our large heat and nuclear stations because they will have more or less cheap electricity. But the Energy Committee agreed with the government on a new edition of article 9, which expressed such a strong negative. And we believe that in a new edition, this law can be passed, taking into account some of the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u159	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u160	I'm sorry. I'm going to announce a new edition. The new paper says that -- so it's proposed to give up the incentive factors by leaving the existing order for the sale of electricity on the wholesale market and the requirement not to apply different target tariffs to electricity and heat produced by qualified cogeneration plants is not included for the period until 2015. So article 9 in the new edition is normal enough and consistent with the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this order will be the vote. May I have your attention, please? First. The President's proposal to reject the law will be the first to vote. If the Supreme Council does not support this proposal, then the proposal for a committee to overcome the veto is put to the vote. If there's not a positive 300-vote solution here, then we're going to consider the next adoption committee in a new editorial with partial consideration. No, no, no, there she is. Thus, honourable colleagues, the first to vote is the President of Ukraine's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Combined Production of Heat and Electricity - Cogeneration - and Use of Saving Energy Potential. Registration number 2583, about the deviation. [[13:08:08]] For-43 The decision is not taken. There is now a vote on the proposal of a committee of profile to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on Ukraine's law on the combined production of heat and electricity -- cogeneration -- and the use of reduced energy potential, registration 2583. Please vote. [[13:08:48]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The next committee is now voting: on the adoption of Ukrainian law in a new edition, you have proposals for a new edition. Registration number 2583, please vote. [[13:09:32]] For 273 Decision taken. So we've adopted the Law in a new edition. Dear colleagues, we need to take a decision on the matter under discussion, it's a draft decision, a report from the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme 2000-2002 in 2003. Yes. You have a project that's been distributed, what are your comments on the project? No notice? Then let's put it to a vote, shall we? Is it? Please sign in, three minutes. The committee proposes to support the project, the Special Supervisory Commission will make such a proposal, please sign in. Yuri Carmazin. Well, why don't you give us a word? Well, don't give me your word, will you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u162	I support the adoption, and please pass on the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u163	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the draft ruling allows me to give a clear assessment of the work of the State Property Fund, in my opinion, this assessment is sufficiently balanced and allows, not only now, this period to assess everything that has been done during this period, but also allow me to clearly determine the further process of this issue. Moreover, there is in fact no person in the room who would not have defined his warnings about the process of privatization and management of state ownership, or of state-owned enterprises in Ukraine. And that's why that makes it a pretty tough assessment, given by the commission of control special for the control of privatization. And I think we need to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u166	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, privatization in general, is the robbery of our people. What is the draft decree on the report if our working people, who created those objects in Soviet times, receive absolutely nothing from it?Oh, my God! I don't think any of the projects need to be voted on. We must stop privatization and return this property to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u167	Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u168	Vassili Nadrag, People's party. I think it's quite right here for colleagues to say that we have a lot of questions about privatization: how it was, how it was, how it would be, and how it would be. That's why I think we should evaluate the operation of the fund. The only thing I think we should take into account, too, is the measure of responsibility of the same Supreme Council: we still do not have the State Property Fund Act. And from that logic, there is probably a sense of fairness more just and objectively to assess work as insufficient. Because "unsatisfying" is what we're talking about is that there are issues only to the fund, and I think there are issues to everything, including the legislative enforcement of its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u169	National Deputy Grzezhev, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. None. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully support the point of view expressed by Comrade Nadrag. You know, this isn't the first year we're talking about claims. The thing is, sharing any property will never be fair. Fairly for another, unfairly for another, it is about keeping the law. We've never heard, we haven't seen, because these issues were decided by law, not in the session room, but by court order, and all the claims that went to the State Property Fund were settled in court. There are a lot of court decisions that have come into effect. So I fully support colleague Nadrag in the fact that, in the absence of the State Property Fund Act, you put yourself in the position of head of the State Property Fund, who works in a different regime than we should have done. Thus, it is more likely to give such an assessment than to help the State Property Fund to set up a normal civilized job. I suggest we evaluate it as insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. Since there was a proposal to recognize work as a disgruntled committee, but another proposal was made -- not enough, let's do it this way, dear colleagues. Now we're going to take it as a basis, and then we're going to vote on the proposals separately in paragraph 2 of the regulation. I would like to vote on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the implementation of the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002 in 2003, registration number 5627-4. I'd like to make a statement. Based on the base. [[13:15:23]] For 211 The decision is not taken. What? Dear colleagues, we'll consider on Thursday a personnel issue, we'll make a decision, then we'll be determined. Okay. To ensure legal purity, who, in order to return to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree, registration number 5627-4, please determine by vote. [[13:16:18]] For-189 Then I ask you to finalize the draft decree so that we can make an effective decision. Maybe they'll bring in the new ones. Dear colleagues, the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine, TRIPS SOT, registration number 7032, has been announced. Reporter, National Deputy Sergei Osik. And from the committee, Vladimir Demjochin will speak. Let's define the rules, dear colleagues. Such regulations are proposed. May I have your attention, please? For the report, up to 10 minutes, to answer the interviewer's question, up to 10 minutes, for the co-report, five minutes without questions, discussion, decision-making, 15 minutes. So, let's say, your honorary colleagues, so, then for the reporter, up to 10 minutes, then for the committee's co-report, up to five minutes, two minutes in, two minutes in, against, we're all going to have 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u172	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you, fellow believers, for your word. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to this bill for the first time, which is supported by both the government and the President of Ukraine, and defined as urgent. I can't hide that I've tried to implement this bill many times, and that's why. It's about harmonising our legislation with the international agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights. This is strategically and fundamentally important for the adoption of this law according to the rules of this agreement, called TRIPS, to the very important consequences: (a) prior to obtaining market-economy status; to solving a large number of trade disputes with the difficulties of trade negotiations. But that's not even the point. For one thing, this law is designed to reduce the black market for the production and distribution of pirated products on DVDs, CDs, and computer programs, and so forth. In this regard, I would like to stress in particular that this law is designed to protect a national producer who works in legal, white, and official terms. This bill makes it easier for them to obtain export licences, import licences and so on and so forth. So I'm asking you to support this bill so that we can move forward in our further efforts to combat pirate production, because that's why they're evaluating the whole state, its attitude towards property, and it doesn't matter what property, whether it's physical property, or whether it's intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Sergey Grigorovitch, please sit down. Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin is the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment will be co-reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 23 March, reviewed the bill and decided to make the recommendation of the Supreme Council a basis. I will not stop, the author of the law has already spoken about the substance of the law. I would like to emphasize the importance of this law for the economy as a whole, especially at a time when we need sufficient strong innovation solutions in the economy, in the management of the people's economy. The challenge is not only to establish an electronic government. Today, we are tasking with the introduction of electronic document-making, the mass use of computer technology to improve the efficiency of governance. At this stage, it is very important that we be able to protect the intellectual property of our developers, our scientists, so that the work that we have done in the country, and believe me, is at a sufficiently high scientific level and has practical realization today to protect this property. The Committee therefore decided, on the basis of these considerations, to recommend the adoption of the bill as a basis. There are, of course, comments from the body of the legislative initiative. We think that on second reading, we would be able to finalize them and prepare the law for second reading in its normal form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the discussion on the board. Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov, a faction of Communists is invited to the performance. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u176	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. If you start with an optimistic note, the relative draft law can be said with one optimistic phrase that it should be sneered. This law does not conform to any standards that exist in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that the draft law or the purpose of the draft law, the implementation of the TRIPS agreement, does not meet its purpose. Firstly, the claim that our Criminal Code does not have criminal measures to protect intellectual property does not correspond to reality either, because Articles 176, 177, 229 fully meet the requirements of Article 61 of the TRIPS Agreement. I quote these articles, these are two of the requirements: the first (a) - effective search and confiscation of illicit trafficking by law enforcement agencies without reporting offenders, i.e. we are familiar with raids and (b) - the existence of penalties in the legislation that prevent violations of rights and their application in practice by the judicial authorities. In our legislation, all these requirements are met. How can a person who has reported legislation on the protection and protection of intellectual property rights and who is in agreement with the TRIPS Agreement say that they do not fit fully? It's about what we're protecting. We're not protecting our manufacturer. Think of it, the venerable discs with no information, the polycarbonate material, and the matrix, which also bear no information, this law reveals that they are an object, an object of intellectual property. This is exactly the same as saying that the object of intellectual property is paper that is in your desk. And this is also an object. If you go from that motive, you have to do the same thing. Like the disks, the glue, the paint, the paper we use. So my suggestion is to reject this bill. The Communist faction supports and will not vote in favour of this bill. And entrepreneurs even think that the exception is the word "import" where only the import is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u177	Thank you, Mikhail Kuzmich. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin The faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! If my memory does not fail, this law is placed seventh time under different absolute names. At seven o’clock, not five o’clock, as my colleagues show me, but seven o’clock. So the bill also proposes a name that the Scientific and Experimental Authority has very rightly written -- "to amend certain Ukrainian laws on production, export and import of disks for laser reading systems. Here's what we're talking about. About that. The language, which has already been spoken by the previous speakers, is article 61 of the TRIPS Treaty, an international agreement that provided for effective search and confiscation of counterfeit products, and it was said whether it was necessary to amend the Criminal Code or not. When we accepted the changes to Article 203 prime. And they brought it in, 203 prime. The criminal code, I told you it was a totally ridiculous, dead, dead-born article. We didn't believe me. Let's see who she's been held accountable for. No one was attracted. Then I tell you. And now we're taking, making changes. I understand our authors today, I even understand Sergey Grigorovich: there's a question that Americans can't understand, they can't understand what Ukraine is. Do you understand? That's the question. Let's meet the people we need to talk to from America on a level that we can understand. Why? Well, if they put Ukraine with their President's mouths yesterday after Iraq and Afghanistan and said that democracy and these totally poor countries are the same, I think they don't understand yet what Ukraine is. And I'd like to open their eyes to Ukraine: it's strong, it's beautiful, it's a proud country, for which it's a little humiliating to feel like that, among those countries that are still on the path of civilized countries. We are the founder of the United Nations, and we are to be put to our knees, including because they want us to do criminal responsibility in order to be, 203, I think, accept it at all. And it's absolutely right that the Scientific and Experimental Authority is proposing that this bill should be sent for further elaboration. And clearly, Your Honor, let's see what we want out of this. We want to draw people to responsibility, not for intellectual property, but for these very discs that Rodionov rightly spoke of. So I think we need to break this law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u179	Oleg Zarubinsky, a faction of the People’s Party, is invited to speak. Next is Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u180	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we all remember the intense discussions on intellectual property, which were centered on the illicit production and implementation of audio and video products. We remember TV footage of how they were removed and cut off by caterpillars under the favorable cries of those who did not actually produce them. Since then, much has been done to teach a culture in these matters, but not all of them. And the proof of that is the bill that we are considering today. But there is a problem. It is that today there has been widespread information, as if the Law of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine No. 7232, author of which is Kafarski, Ustenko, Sitnik and Kuras, as if it were plagiarism. But that's not true. I want to tell you what kind of bill we're considering. We're looking at a bill, one hundred percent of which was developed by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, along with a working group of our fellow national deputies, which included, I'm counting, colleagues of Kafarsky, Ustenko, Sitnik and Kuras. It doesn't affect the content of the bill and our attitude towards it, but I would like us all to be right about each other and call who are really the authors of a plagiarism. Dear colleagues, in order to avoid contradictions in our legislation, to reconcile it with the rules of a multilateral agreement on the commercial aspects of WTO intellectual property rights and to remove sanctions against Ukrainian exports, in fact, and to propose appropriate changes to valid laws. Unfortunately, there are some differences. Now, I've analyzed this bill, and I've analyzed the findings of various, including science and expertise, there are differences. The author proposes a new edition of article 203 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on criminal responsibility for the illicit production of exports, imports, storage, implementation and movement of disks for laser reading systems, the Scientific and Experimental Administration gives us information that convinces us that this basic, in this case, article should be excluded from this code at all as a vivid - quote - an example of excessive criminalization of the lack of understanding of the rules of criminalization. Dear colleagues, I think we have a stereotyped, misperceptive notion that you can punish someone for stealing coffee from a fancy shop or something, and when you steal intellectual property, that is, the product of those people whose job is intellectual work, we treat it differently. I think these are the reactions of the old days when intelligence was not considered what was needed. I think on the first reading you can adopt this bill, but very seriously still work before.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk. You're handing over Mikola to Rudzkowski, aren't you? Mikhail Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u182	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're right, I'm really going to give Rudzkowski the word, but I'd like to say the following. He was Justice Minister Zvaric and First Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy. Neither of them responded to the comments that were made here in Parliament regarding the blocking of the accounts of farmers by the administration of the justice of the Novoseltsky region of the Cherniv region, and the deputy minister did not respond to what to do with the oil that was being produced and could be channelled to the producers and thus gave cheap oil to our peasants. Thank you. I give the word to Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u183	I am asking the Secretariat to prepare an official appeal to the relevant authorities on the basis of information provided by Michael Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u184	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The law on intellectual property, as it were, which is now being considered in the session hall, if we accept it, it was submitted to every government that wanted to serve the Americans. [[It's taken seven times to the session hall.]] Now, taking into account, of course, our President's trip, the government has again enacted this law into the session room. The adoption of this law, just so you know, will result in the discs in Ukraine traveling twice. That's the first one. It's different. That we're going to have minus one billion dollars in the trade and payment balance, because all the software products from abroad can't be what it is now, copied, everything has to be just licensed. That's a second. Third. That every student who copys music on the computer will be drawn to criminal responsibility, and I read: "correct jobs for a term of up to 2 years or deprivation of liberty for the same period with the seizure of disks." So I'm asking you, MPs, you've forgotten that we have Ukrainian producers who are capable of securing the Ukrainian market, which are companies that fully provide the internal market and export. The adoption of this law will ensure that Ukraine again exports from Europe and America, we will pay abroad, we will not have our own production. Who's gonna win this, I wonder? Where are we going? And it seems to me that the hall today should not vote in favour of this law and in the first reading until the interests of its own manufacturer and consumer are protected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u185	The position of the government, please, on this point. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The government will fully support the bill. We think it's extremely useful to the people of Ukraine, because we are in fact regulating the same rules as the honourable people's deputies. It also unlocks the process of negotiating the accession of the world trade organization. This makes our economic space within Ukraine transparent and nondiscriminatory, effectively ensuring a normal level of protection for intellectual property subjects. We will fully support and ask the Hall to support this bill, because without it we cannot solve even the basic trade problems. As for the granting of benefits under the so-called preferential trading system of the United States. With regard to the removal of Jackson-Venic, regarding our accession to the world trade organisation and the improvement of the overall economic situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u186	Yes. Thank you. On the basis of the vote, Mikhail Ratushny, then Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky and we will vote, Vitaly Šibko and three minutes will be exhausted. Dear colleagues, we have only two "for," "against," so let's all get on with our motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that the reduced procedure provides for pros and cons. Everyone here was "against." I want to speak in support of this bill. And I'll tell you why. I understand that disc production is quite cost-effective, 600% said cost-effectiveness. And there are serious lobby groups that really block the adoption of this law by the seventh, but our exports are not just discs. Our metal industry is suffering from this. That we don't ratify the WTO agreements in the world, in this case, the light industry is different. That's why I'd ask them. That they have spoken against the seventh time of the adoption of this law. Consider the consequences for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u188	One minute, not all at once, I see. Igor Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u189	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Indeed, compact discs are already a waste of electronic technology, electronic information. The Committee on Science and Education, when it considered this bill, invited the main producers of electronic disks, CDs in Ukraine, particularly Masola. And the leaders of our firms say that they are already standing very firmly on their feet and that the adoption of this law will contribute to their activity. So I think that the law can, in principle, be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u190	You've done it before, haven't you? I see I'm looking at the list. Igor Mikhailovich, I see. Please, Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u191	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Fast, socialist faction, Dniproperty. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing a very important bill. It has an international resonance. But I am surprised that we have focused much on the content of this bill, and much has been said against supporting it in general. And how can we support it if even we have a significant error in our name that relates to whether it's an implementation or not. I want to make a note of what was done. We can't pass such a law with that name when it comes to implementation. So today we're confusing the notion of implementation, what it is. And I want us to understand that if we adopt such a law, it would be somehow contrary to international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u192	Andrew School, please. The motivations are over. There's a motive. You signed up for your motives, you didn't sign up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u193	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would also like to point out that, in principle, it would be necessary to give a speech to those who support this bill. Because let's not forget that being against this bill is the principle of position, and I respect it. But one thing we need to understand is that we now need to regulate the schematics of pirate production in practice. I'm describing what it is. The official contractor applies to a factory that produces CDs. It is printed, for example, 100,000 copies, and then another 200,000 are printed officially on the same equipment, just without labels or labels on where they were made. And that's exactly what the main body of the bill is about. And so there's no mention of anyone taking action against the Ukrainian manufacturer. It's all coming together. And in this situation, this broad discussion has already taken place in society, and especially among those who suffer the most among the performers. So I think we need to support this bill because there's no other way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u194	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u195	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. I am very interested to observe this discussion because I remember the last six votes. I didn't hear anything from that political party that's out there today calling for them to vote in favour of this bill. There were fifti - fifti, fifty - fifty. And now that part of America is still aspiring to us to adopt this law. And by the way, it advocates the adoption of the law of Minister Terjehochin, who declared yesterday, we will vote, and we will be one step closer to WTO. It is not the President’s political will to release Terhochin from his position under 120 articles. And today, people who violate the Constitution are campaigning for this bill. So I believe that today we need to listen to what MP Rudzikowski said from the socialists. And to this day we must be consistent. Whoever didn't vote shouldn't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u196	Cergio Osika, closing, please. Invite the national deputies to the session room, and we'll have a vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u197	Thank you. In short, I find it difficult to answer all the questions that have been asked. But I'll give it a shot. Those incredibly large numbers of billions of losses that have been named are all fairy tales. It's easy to do, and I'm going to say frankly, Ukraine has become a wasteland for the black production of stolen CDs, DVDs, computer programs. From the lands surrounding us, we have been tricked into producing. When investigations are under way, we are beaten, destroyed, and told that Ukraine is unable to protect intellectual property rights. We have no way of realizing that in developed countries, these rights are very important, that people do not realize that they can actually be stolen openly. Look at the shopping malls, at every district center, it's all black. So I spent the third year, not for America, but for Ukraine, conducting and enforcing this law. Fourth, this law promotes a white producer. It's the same thing. We have black vodka and we have white vodka. And we know that. The same thing is that our official producer is suffering from a black market. He can't become competitive. So for the record, the TRIPS Agreement is 152 countries in the world. Not in this covenant six! In these six of us, we have up to three percent of the world’s trade. And then you can equalize the billions that were called, and what we're losing in metallurgy, and chemistry, and so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what question? That's the closing word. What question? I'd like to say again: Your Honor, at the right time, please make a statement. The motive, the procedure, and the summary of the case have already been completed. And you want to ask the question now. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of a committee to adopt a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on the implementation of legislation to the requirements of a multilateral agreement on the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights of TRIPS-SOT, registration number 7032. Please vote. [[13:46:54]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are under review. The factions, please. Yeah, I'm reading pros. "Our Ukraine" - 75, Communist faction - 0, "Ukraine regions" - 1, People's Party - 24, SPU - 23, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 22, UNODC - 19, "Ukrainian One" - 19, "Democratic Ukraine" - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 18, PPU - 7, "Democratic Initiatives" - 14, "Union" - 8, NDP - "Republic" - 3, "Preflacation - 7. Yes, honourable colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code is being discussed. Rapporteurs are Ukrainian national deputies Kafarsky, Catherinechuk, Mirimsky. And Victor Lavrentiovich will be speaking from the committee. Now let's listen to the report for three minutes, and then we'll finish the discussion after the break. Yes, Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky, please. What? I've already announced the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! On January 10, 2002, the Supreme Council adopted the Ukrainian Family Code. We should give due consideration to the High Council’s calling on Professor Romossky, who prepared this codex, which really addressed many issues of family relations. But family relationships are complicated. Social problems are changing, and family problems are changing. Hence, many need to make changes, especially those related to adoption. Which is proposed by the bill that I introduced. First of all, today is the question of increasing the responsibility of parents for neglecting and neglecting the upbringing of children, for the conscious refusal of parents to raise them. In violation of a family obligation, the law provides for a family legal sanction in the form of the removal of parental rights. But today, in view of the position of the article of the first, eighteenth Family Code of Ukraine and with a view to protecting the rights and interests of the child, the bill proposes to establish a standard in the Family Code that provides for reparations to parents ’ health, especially those who adopt. In view of the fact that children who already own certain property may be adopted today, you can see the relationship that these families can have. On the other hand, there are many families who do not have children. Adoption can be passed by those who are already adults, and this standard needs to be opened in order to resolve these issues. Because it is not uncommon for us to have examples of elderly children being cared for in one area or another, trying to copy an apartment. Sometimes it comes to absurdity. There are other problems regarding the improvement of children adopted in one family or another. In order not to take up more of your time, I propose that these standards be considered and supported in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u200	Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich. None. Leo Mirimsky, please. I can't see. Please, Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, these three bills are being considered at the same time for the reason that they relate to the issue of the need to remove gaps in the Ukrainian Family Code in order to regulate the adoption of orphans and children deprived of parental care. Of course, when we talk about children deprived of parental care, and orphans also refer to children like that, but they go in separate categories of legislation. The two projects, especially those of Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky and Katerinczuk and Skomarovski, relate to a wide range of issues related to adoption and the creation of foster families and legal principles and functions, the living of children in family-type children's homes, are also determined by the extent of the rights of educators and educators. My point is that the bill prepared by Skomarovsky and Catherinechuk is the largest. There are a number of observations from both the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Administration of Scientific and Experimental, many different comments have been made to all the bills of the three and the members of the committee, and there is a proposal to take into account the proposals of our colleagues, Mr. Vladimir Ivanovich and Mr. Lev Yuriovich. [[Number 4411]] There's a specificity in Miriam, some questions about this particular category of things, and he also points out the need to define the clear organs of care and care. But I have to tell you that unfortunately, both in the Civil Code and in the Family Code, we're talking about custody and custody and reference to a special law on the status of these organs, and there's no special law yet, and I think there's a prospect for Mirimsky, and we're going to have to process them and adopt a special law for us. Thank you for your attention. I repeat, on the basis of the adoption of Bill 4411 and taking into account the proposals of Kafarsky and Mirimsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u202	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Dear colleagues, perhaps this is how we will proceed. If you don't mind, we would have completed the discussion of this issue, so we continued the morning session for 15 minutes. Then let's move on to the discussion. Please note the name of the national MPs who have signed up for the discussion. Vladimir Puzakov. I'd like to make it clear that I'm in favour or against, that I'm in a position to speak. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u203	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština While there are some 10 million children in Ukraine, not every child has had to grow up in a healthy family. Unfortunately, the number of disadvantaged families is rising accordingly and so - called social orphans are growing. It looks like we've come to terms with this, and we don't notice that the increase in social orphans is becoming a dangerous issue number one, replacing the equally painful question of having those disadvantaged children who are fortunate enough to reach adulthood, not in a zone, not on the street, but in the walls of boarding schools. No one will ever understand the difficult life course these children are going through, since they are nowhere to be expected, they go where they can survive — the panel, the gangs, and then the prison, then the will, and again the circle. Unfortunately, the state is simply turning away from these children, motivated by the same thing -- economic difficulties, and it's not thinking about what it's going to cost these young people. Even though we did not loudly announce the priority of family parenting, it is not enough for all of us to give a child a family. For example, in the last two years, more than 130,000 family - type homes have been created in the family. What about others? This is no way out of this situation. Does the state not care why carefree boys and girls appear, why are children viewed as orphans in living parents, why are parents not called to account for their own children’s begging? The State is not ashamed to sell its children abroad in the form of adoption. Why does a young mother throw her out on the street when she gives birth to a child? But perhaps the state and the country’s total degradation of young people are not concerned. So the question is, who are the oranges going to go to Europe with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u204	Please, Yuri Solomatin, follow him Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u205	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear friends, we are again trying to place some wages on those thresholds, on those problems that have arisen in the new society and under the old power and under the new authority, because this society can be defined by one word, its aspiration is capitalism. Let's remember, I'm addressing, first of all, those people of old when we were underage singing with you, and then when we were adults, we were famous songs. I only remember one line: "My country is wide, my home country, lots of forests, fields and rivers, and I don't know where that person breathes so freely." What do we have now? In this independent, poor, orange state. That is why it is when, over and over in legislation and including the family code, it is suggested that parents who leave their children be called to account for certain measures. Or try to find deserving ones who will take these children into their families. It's just the wages of society, with its beastly rock that took place in Ukraine, which was made not only in Ukraine but also in Europe and in the United States. And if there's a mascara and make-up, and it's like there's nothing wrong with society, it's done because millions of children in Africa and Asia don't just have bread, but there's no glass, sorry, clean drinking water. So the solution can only be one way: to destroy this shameful capitalist system and to establish such social relations and social justice as our great homeland, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Let's go back to Soviet power, to social justice, to socialism, and these questions will disappear, and we'll think of them as scary reasons. And these proposals, which are contained in Bills 4384 and 4411, are such that they can be found to be correct. Let them at least partially improve the fate of childhood. And we're going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u206	Please, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party, behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u207	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm sorry I won't sing, just according to the bill. And there are really three of them. And they all, frankly, deserve attention. Since the standards they set out represent in themselves some interest, legislative interest. For example, if we look at the Kafarsky bill, I don't think anyone might have any misunderstandings about the proposal that custody be set up not only to ensure the upbringing of children who are left without parental care, but also to protect the personal immaterial and property rights and interests of these children. Nice offer? She's absolutely beautiful. Because we know very well how much abuse of property is taking place today with regard to those children who have no one to protect. One second. For the rights and responsibilities of stepmothers to be likened to parental rights in the family of minors, underage pastures. If we make certain commitments to those who adopt children, we certainly have to grant the same rights, all the more so that families are often accepted, as described in the next Kafarsky bill, Skomarovsky proposes to compare to, say, family families. Pretty controversial, I think, but we also need to consider setting up more of this age, let's say, serious for people who can adopt. It's 18 years in law. Obviously, there's a point to this, because we need to ask those people who adopt that they could have guaranteed what we've told you about -- both the upbringing and the protection of the rights, including the property rights of those children they adopt. On the other hand, I can't help but agree with my colleagues' comments, with experts on the subject, let's say, the greater universality of the bill of authors Skomarowski and Catherinechuk. Even though some comments can certainly be made to them. But it seems to me that this bill can be taken as a basis, and here I agree with MP Musiak. But I would very much like the developers to take into account at least the things that I said that are in the Kafari bill above all, but there are some positive points in the Mirimsky colleague's project. Thank you for your attention. I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u208	Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to people's concerns that we have a bad country, and I want to disagree with you. We have just two months of this orange beautiful country, the president of which Victor Yushchenko has been in for two months. And we all hang upon it the sins of what was done before. And those 20 million, destroyed in the Civil War after your revolution, are not orange. It would have been better to be orange, not one person would have died, and everything, thank God, is fine. We'll see if they're telling us whether or not youth is coming back. But no, unfortunately, will not return to you or to me, and, thank God, to our people will not return the story that has already been, to which you draw. Here you often argue with Mr. Chernewecki, who prefers the state. Well, at least he's helping, he's physically sharing something from his bank. I didn't hurt you. I said you're sharing with the bank. But, honourable national MPs, I want to examine these two bills and here to combine with the proposal of the honourable Musiak. The thing is, both in that project, 4411 and 4384 have some interesting novels. I like Skomarowski and Catherinechuk's fact that they're clarifying the provisions of the Family Code regarding centralised accounting of orphans is the first. The other one. I like the fact that they're asking questions about the adoption of raised children. This is the second principled position. They also talk about the consent of the child to be identified by the official of the institution where the child is located. It's also positive. They also offer adoption without parental consent if they leave or leave the child in the maternity home. Especially now will there be many who are planning to receive 8,500 and to throw the child away. But I like what Mr. Kafarsky has offered. and here are many very novelties, including to be deprived by the court of parental rights of mother and father, if they are evading the obligation to obtain preschool, secondary education for their children, if they are allowed to apply for the re-establishment of parental rights, if one year after that, and one understood what had happened. They're still offering serious things, Mr. Kafarsky, and he's raising the age from which to adopt, from 25 years of age. That's why he and that bill have to be adopted in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u210	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. You'll find out later. He mentioned you quite positively. Yeah, let's figure it out. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code. Registration number 4384. Please vote. [[14:06:34]] For-119 I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code, registration number 4411. Please vote. [[14:07:05]] For 209 I'm voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code, registration number 4411-1. [[14:07:35]] For-74. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's go with the three bills, one of them won the largest number of votes, first. The second, and the committee of profile and the Science and Experimental Authority is proposing to support this very bill. Is there any objection? Wait. Leonid Mikhailovich, when the vote comes, no one will tear him down. The vote ends, there's gonna be a line. You vote first. I repeat: after the vote, there will be a line. Yes, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code, registration number 4411. Please vote. [[2:08:41]] For 241 The law is passed. Please, this is the moment of the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I congratulate you that we have not rejected the good law, and the citizens of Ukraine who listen to us will appreciate our vote today. [[By the way, Chernovecki, Christian Liberal Party]] But I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens who are listening to our broadcast. I was at the Conciliation Council making a proposal. [[And they look.]] Adam Ivanovich, stop this nonsense! When the same people call in all parts of Ukraine: they speak constantly and are recorded here at three o'clock in the morning. I like Karmazin's speech, and this is an outstanding speaker of today's, but I still think there are other opinions. He has to act, and I think he'll always register. But stop this nonsense because we've turned Parliament into a circus! Put this question to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-05-m0.u212	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich, but you're not less likely to speak than the best speaker in Carmazin. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
