ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:35]] The 353 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the plenary session of April 5. 17 questions on the agenda have been considered. Four bills were adopted on the basis of the first reading, one bill was designed to be redrafted, 12 bills were rejected, two decrees were adopted and one draft decree was rejected. As a result of a review of the proposals by the President of Ukraine, two laws were passed in a new edition. Yes, now for the announcement. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I hereby declare the dissolution of the Democratic People's Party and the Republic Group. It was composed of 10 Ukrainian national deputies on April 6, 2005. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of the parliamentary groups and factions are requested to submit their statements. In the meantime, allow me to announce the questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Leonidas CERNOVECH to the President of Ukraine on the illegal construction of a residential and office-trade complex on the street of the Great Zitomirsk in Kiev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:53]] For-67 Request not supported Groups of people's deputies to the President of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal actions to alienate state property. [[Rich, infantry, ISAIAH, and others. Total 28 deputies]] I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:26]] For-99 Request not supported. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the President of Ukraine on the crisis situation with insulin supply for diabetics in Zaporezki region. I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. [[10:04:55]] For 206 Request supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:17]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, a group of national deputies along with me were in Zaporozhye district, and we learned about this situation, and please note that in view of the fact that the previous tenders for insulin purchase have been canceled, we continue to be in Kiev City, and at this time people are dying without insulin, and we are breaking up. Who's in favour of coming back to that question, please vote. [[10:06:08]] For 355 Decision taken. Who's in favour of supporting this request to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:06:31]] For 351 Request supported. Who's in charge of directing this request to Alexander Pecklesenck to the President of Ukraine? [[10:06:55]] For 353 The request is addressed to the President of Ukraine. Mikoli Komara to the President of Ukraine on the problems of sectoral applied science, including the Ukrainian State Institute of Glasses of the city of Konstantinivka Donetsk. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:31]] For 262 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:52]] For 275 Decision taken. Adam Martinyuk to the President of Ukraine on the political motives for conducting a review by the Attorney General of compliance with legislation in the activities of the National Academy Theatre of the Russian drama Lesi Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:08:27]] For the 250. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:08:51]] For 266 Decision taken. I can hear, I can hear, dear colleagues. Shut up. For the faction, please. Our Ukraine - 1, the communists - 56, the Ukrainian regions - 44, the People's Party - 29, the SPI - 23, Block Timoshenko - 2, NPP - 5, SDPU - 22, the only Ukraine - 17, Dem. [[N o M e s s a ……]] Ukraine - 18. SPT - 13, Union - 10, Democratic Initiatives - 14, NDP, Republic - 3, non-fractional - 9. People’s Demjochin, Karmazin, Kruczkov, to the President of Ukraine, to review the decision to eliminate the National Coordination Centre for the Adaptation of Military Personnel Released to Reserve or Retirement and Conversion of Former Military Objects. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:57]] For 239. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:10:17]] For 245 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Our Ukraine is 12, the communists are 56, the Ukrainian regions are 26, the People's Party is 9, the SPU is 27, the Timoshenko Block is 9, the NPP is 9, the SDPU is 22, the only Ukraine is 20, the Democratic Ukraine is 19, the PPU is 9, the Union is 10, the Democratic Initiative is 9, the NDP, the Republic is 2, the Postfaction is 6. People of Kirichenk0 to the President of Ukraine are under great pressure from the political views of members of the Party of the Regions. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:13]] For 203 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:11:35]] For 239. Decision taken. Oleg PANASOVSKI and Eugene LAPINE to the President of Ukraine regarding the investigation of unlawful actions by officials of the Ukraine’s Secretariat of Presidential and Regional Government Administrations. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:12:04]] For 213 Request supported. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:26]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The request is not addressed to the President. Viktor HORBAČOVA to the President of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal shadow privatization of Ukrainian polygraph enterprises and the resignation of the Supervisory Board and the administration of the State Shareholder Company “Ukrlodavpoligraphy”. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:13:02]] For 228 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:13:23]] For 247 Decision taken. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the President of Ukraine for the protection of freedom of speech and the cessation of unjustified pressures of the NTN channel. I'd like to vote in favour of the request, please. [[10:13:52]] For 266 Request supported. Yeah? Now, well, now we're going to vote on the direction. It's just support. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:14:19]] For 272 Okay, okay, factions, please show me: "Our Ukraine" - 1, Communists -56, "Regions of Ukraine" -48, National Party - 27, SPI - 28, Block Timoshenko - 4, NPP - 7, SPDU (o) - 22, "Only Ukraine" - 17, "Dem. Ukraine's 17, PPU's 8, Alliance 13, Democratic Initiatives 14, NDP, Republic's 2, non-fractional - 8. Stepan GAVRISHA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of the rules of law in force by individual Ukrainian national deputies in part of the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister, Attorney General, Minister of Agriculture Policy on the problems that have been hampered by the development of agriculture in the region of Kyiv. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Head of the Supreme Council on the increase in the level of pension provision for former employees of the open shareholding company “Hymvolokno”, who were employed in jobs with particularly harmful working conditions. KYORIAN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on violations of the rights of the national MP. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court on the compatibility of parliamentary powers with the work of the executive authority. [[LAPINE, PANASIAN, AND OTHERS]] Jury BOJKA to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the financing of the single Ukrainian newspaper “Criminal Light” in the same scope as the Russian - speaking “Criminal Truth”. ZARI KATUSHOVI to the Prime Minister regarding the conditions of residence of the multinational population of the Kamensk Massive Kyiv district of Simferopol. Mr. Vladimir NECHIPRECK to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Dnipropetrovsk City Head for the abuse of the local authority of Dnipropetrovska. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the non-payment of dividends to shareholders of the Open Shareholders Association “Podilsk cement”. Anatolya KUKOBI to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the renewal of the city’s mobile electricity supply. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister for the development of a mechanism for assigning honorary title “Mother Hero” and for the approval of material encouragement measures. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the State Property Fund for the enforcement of legislation in the establishment of the evaluation and sale of the Open Shareholder Society of the “Zedlil Brick Plant” of the Lviv Region and the fulfilment of investment commitments. Anatolia Rachánské to the Prime Minister for the failure to pay back the 28th Group of Directors of the Department of Labour of the Ministry of Debt for Work, which was commissioned by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Galina HARMASH to the Prime Minister for the activation of criminal trial, which was violated by the creation of a number of entrepreneurs in the Luhansk Region of fictitious enterprises on the basis of the crime provided for in article 205 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Jaroslav JJDJIKA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of a damaged school in Podgajci, Ternopil district. Mr. Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister for the political persecution of the Rector of the Vinnické Medical University of Heroia Ukraine, Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine Vasil Moroz. Katerina SAMOLIK to the Prime Minister on the adoption of measures to prevent the submerged areas of the Herson region. Mr. Constantine SITCHNIK to the Prime Minister for the construction of the Danube - Black Sea waterway and for the preservation of the valuable nature-preservation complexes of the Danube Delta. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister regarding the write-off of debts from the production of housing and utilities in the Špolyan district of Cherkas region. [[ESTENKO, TURKEY, FRENCH]] GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the allocation of construction funds in the city of Fastov in the Kyiv area of the residence for the victims of the accident at the Chernobyl AES. PENALTIES OF CATEGORIES to the Prime Minister on the restoration of pensioners' rights from the number of civil aviation personnel who have been violated following the recalculation of pensions due to the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act “On mandatory public pension insurance” Tamara PROSKURATO the Prime Minister for the completion of the construction of the public education school No. 4 of the city of Vasilkova Kyiv region. Mr Stanisława GURENKA to the Prime Minister on the government's first-line actions in the domestic meat and fish market. People of Kirichenko to the Prime Minister on the elimination of the consequences of the natural disaster in the city of Prevalski Luhansk. Gennady RUDENKA to the Prime Minister is the head of the Organizing Committee for the Preparation and Celebration of the 60th Year of Victory and the Memorial of the Great Homeland War on the condition of the preservation of the burial of unknown soldiers, brotherly graves, memorial complexes that perpetuate the memory of victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 and their alignment until the 60th anniversary of Victory Day. Dmitry RUDKOVSKOVO to the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics and European Integration, on the financing of rural gasification and the construction of 91 constituencies. Vladimir LECHENKA to the Prime Minister for the termination of the provision of war veterans and other categories of citizens with compressed balloon gas for domestic needs for the benefits. TO THE Prime Minister, Oleg YUCHNOVIH, on the need to speed up the reform of the technical regulation system in connection with Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kyiv City Head for the prevention of the liquidation of the Kyiv State ipdrome, the embezzlement of its lands and property, the development of the ipological and tribal affairs, horse sports, and the preservation of jobs for professionals in the field of horsery. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister for assistance in building a cultural building in the village of Nepolokovitsa in the region of Czernovetsec. Mr. Alexander MASSENKA to the Prime Minister on the issue of the issue of supplementary pension to the resident of the village of Bairak in the Seminavian region of Kwashi, which served in military service in extreme conditions. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Prime Minister for failure to implement the Cabinet of Ministers of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes of Ukraine, Supreme Council Regulation of 4 February 2005 “On the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “To meet the people” on the granting of the project of the 2005 Economic and Social Development Programme. Igor ŠURMI to the Prime Minister for financing the construction of a school in Jasenice-Silna Drogobitski district of Lviv region where Ivan Franco studied. Victor PETROVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for failure to fulfil the terms of the lease, destruction and confiscation of the property of the “Level” agro-firm of the village of Red Grebl of the Chechnya Region of Winnick. Valentin SAVIC to the Prime Minister on the situation surrounding the State Company “Crecocomprosess” and the formal approach to addressing the appeals of the People’s Deputy and the faction of the People’s Party. Mr. Vladimir PETRENK to the Prime Minister for violations of the law by some officials of the authorities of the Suman region and the Ukrainian authorities. Eugene LAPINA to the Prime Minister for the project to create the State Shareholder Society Titan Ukraine. Anatolia NALIVAIKA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the city of Kirovské Donetske region. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for compensation to citizens of the undervalued cash savings contained in the State Internal Profit Bonds of 1982. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the situation in the village of Nova Praha in the region of Alexandria. Victor HORBAČOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the cessation of illegal shadow privatization of Ukrainian political enterprises and the resignation of the Supervisory Board and the administration of the State Shareholder Company, Uklodavpoligraphy. John DRACK to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the “Svettoch” air conditioning company. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Prime Minister regarding the abolition of certain regulations on the transfer of colporteur markets to the knowledge of consumer co-operation. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister for information on the “Dojcebank” loan of 2 billion euros to the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Mr. John Vernidubov to the Prime Minister, the Chief of Public Service for the mass exoneration of civil servants. Anatolysa KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the design and survey of the Snigurov region’s populated areas for the elimination of a dangerous situation in connection with the rise in groundwater levels. Vladimir YAVORIYSKI to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the head of the State Property Fund, on the legality of transferring the ex-President Kuchmi to a huge property complex under a fund that he had not yet declared and in which time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was deployed. Igor JEREMEEVA to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the operation of the technical manufacturing unit Lvivloadautotrans Lviv State Industrial Technical Connection. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Fuel and Energy, on the payment of arrears from the wages of employees of the company “Schacht No71 “Industry” during the period of work in 1998-1999. Vitalia OLUIKA to the Prime Minister for the preservation of cultural values damaged by a fire in the Kamyanec-Podil city archives of the Hmelnicki district. Mr Vernidubov to the Prime Minister for information on mechanisms for the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the temporary introduction of a visa-free regime for citizens of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation. Anatolysa KZLOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the technical restocking of agricultural production. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Secretary of the RNP, the Head of the State Property Fund, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the use of measures to address the veterans of the Armed Forces of the City of Chernigiv Region in the area of reform of the military parts of the Pluto Aviation Garrison, the disbandment of the garrison house of officers, as well as the shameful theft of state property. [[CARMASINE, DELIVERY, AND OTHERS]] Mikhail BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers on the gasification of the villages of the region of Cherniveck. MICHELLE NECK to the Cabinet of Ministers for the restoration of the Middle Buda Pass – Zernov on the State border of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Kirila POLICHUKA to the Cabinet of Ministers for raising tariffs for cable television. Michael BAUERA to the Cabinet of Ministers for the provision of funds to repay the debt to the community for the young man’s dedication to the cattle of the high - weighted condition. Mr Ivan TOMIĆA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on accounting for the seasonality of agricultural production in the preparation of the allocation schedule for the financing of agricultural budget programmes. Victor Tarana to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka on the ideology of the aesthetic design of Kyiv Metro stations and other problems related to monumental Bolshevik propaganda. [[TERRITO]] Mr. Mikli Tomenk, Deputy Prime Minister, for the formal response of the Ministry of Health to a parliamentary request regarding the position of Chief Special Officer of the Ministry of Health in the field of drugs and the actual refusal to provide the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council with HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and drug addiction with statistical information on the prevalence of drug abuse in Ukraine. Mr. Mikhail Kosiv to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenk, Minister of Internal Affairs, on dissatisfaction with the response to the appeal regarding the seizure of the premises of the Patriarchy of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Hennady Astrow-ŠUMILOVA to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budgets for Special Approach to the Budget of the City of Sverdlovska Lugansk Region. LUKJANENKA to the Attorney-General on the attempt to avoid criminal liability by the former director of the limited liability association Kanów Nafta. GOVERNMENT to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, on the criminal activity of officials of the Central Council of the All - Ukrainian Association of Automobiles and the improper examination of the appeal of the national deputy. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney-General on the illegal sale of the assets of the Zora mine of the State-owned enterprise Snow-Attraction. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the socio-hazardous activities of officials of the open-ended Ukrainian Construction Company and damages to the state budget. LeonidaS CERNOVECH to the Attorney General on the illegal construction and arbitrary seizure of land on the streets of Volodymyrska, Žitomirski, and Decade in Kiev. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General for a proper examination of the petitions made by the citizen of Pavlük in connection with illegal actions, the City of Chernivci, law enforcement officers and others, and the cessation of illegal persecution. Vladimir PETRENKA to the Attorney General for a superficial and biased criminal case against the inhabitants of Boromla, the District Court of Suma. Vassila HARI to the Attorney General for legal evaluation of the activities of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Donetsk Region. Ms. Alexander CARENKA to the Attorney General on the misconduct of prosecutors and internal affairs agencies in the Suma region. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General for the abuse of office as deputy to the Head of State Department for the execution of Wojciekhowski’s sentences. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, regarding the conduct of an official investigation into some of the prosecution’s employees and the examination of the facts of the commission of crimes. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General, Minister of Interior, Minister for Youth and Sports on the violation of the criminal case for the beating of the head of the Trieste district headquarters of Viktor Yuszczenk “Our Ukraine” and the personnel assignments of the local police. Mr. Alexander MOROZA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the corruption of the management of the state-owned agriculture company Teaka, of the State administration of the affairs of the President of Ukraine. Alexander FELDMAN to the Attorney-General on the abolition of individual provisions of the Decision of the Ivano-Frankow City Council on the approval of the Ukrainian Language Development and Functioning Programme in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk for 2004-2006, which violate the Constitution in part of guarantees of free development, use and protection of Russian, other languages of Ukrainian national minorities. Peter SIMONENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service for the verification of illegal sales abroad of MS-400 engines for winged X-55 aircraft. Andrea POLIETA to the Attorney General on the facts of involvement in criminal proceedings and biased investigations. Anton KESSE to the Attorney General for the arbitrary construction of a residential building in the green zone that belongs to the territory of Odessa School No. 19 Gennady RUDENKA to the Attorney General on violations of the Law “On the Moratorium for the conduct of solid rubles on the mountain slopes in the wooden and beech forests of the Carpathian region” in the Laken Forestry of the Vrokhtian State of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Oleg PETROVA to the Attorney-General on violations of legislation in the sale of an administrative building belonging to the company “Odessabossupply” of the State Shareholder Society “Ukrressi”. Igor CHELOMBITKA to the Attorney General, Head of the State Committee on Forestry concerning the unlawful actions of the officials of the Zvenigrad State Association “Cherkasilis”. Mr Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Attorney General on the violation of legislation concerning the group of pensioners, former employees of the State-Cooperational Project and Education Institute Poltavaagroproject. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney-General on the formal approach to the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on privatization in connection with the illegal alienation of the basic means of research for the “Ivkowci” economy. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General, Head of Ternopil’s District State Administration, on the abuse of property by residents of the village of Bagatkowci in Ternopil region. TO THE Attorney General’s office, Boris BREAKDOWN about the corruption carried out by the Public Tax Administration in Volinsk. JAROSLA SOHO to the Attorney General about the abuse of office as procurator of the Zaporozhye region. MICHELLA’S CHECK to the Attorney General for monopolizing one person’s television channels, three of which are national. Mikhail MELNIČUKA to the Attorney General for gross violation of the rights of land and property owners by the Director of the Agricultural Society with limited responsibility “Ukraine” of the village of Kozin Mironówska District of Kyiv Region and former Head of the Mironov Regional Administration, Peter Sokirko, when registering the agricultural society statute with limited responsibility “Lord”. Helen BONDARENKO to the Attorney General for the violation of the constitutional rights of the Director of Bilocerkow Public Education School No.17 by law enforcement officials. Valentina Seminyuk to the Attorney General, Head of the Kiev City State Administration, on the situation surrounding the Central Market in Kiev. MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Attorney General for the violation of labour law by the management of the utility company in the operation of the Dniprova housing fund in the city of Kiev. Igora SHAROVA to the Attorney General for the absence of a procurator’s response to violations of the legal rights of citizens in the Kirovograd region. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General regarding the formal attitude of the Attorney General's Office to the parliamentary motion for infringement by the management of the Open Shareholders' Company Zaporijelektrovanje legislator in the sale of immovable property to private property. The deputy faction of the “One Ukraine” party to the Attorney-General on speeding up the investigation of bribery by the mayor of the city of Vyshgrad of the Kyiv region. Georgia BUYKA to the Attorney General, head of the Security Service for the abuse of members of the Kharkiv District Attorney’s Office. Larissa POLACOVOYA to the Attorney General on the biased actions of the Prosecutor's Office of the Babushkin district of Dnipropetrovska and Dnipropetrovska District Attorney's Office regarding the shareholders' association “Dnipropolymermash”. Victor PETROVA to the Attorney General for the violation of the rights of the founders of the collective enterprise “Haysin Schwein factory “Vita”. Igora TARASJUKA to the Attorney General, head of the Ternopil district government administration, on the use of land and property rations for the inhabitants of the villages of Suštín and the rest of Terebovljana region of Ternopil. VITALIA SIBKA to the Attorney General is a serious violation of the right of a national MP to take immediate action and not take measures to remedy violations of legislation. The National Union of Ukraine, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, members of the Government, high-ranking members of the National Security and Defence Council and the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, which is a sign of misconduct by the above-mentioned officials in granting privileges and unlawful support for the political activities of the “National Union of Ukraine”. [[DOBKIN, KARENKO and others]] Mr. Mikoli NOSENKA to the Attorney-General for violations committed by representatives of the Nosov District Department of Internal Affairs in the course of the investigation of road traffic accidents. GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General for signs of corruption in the change of the owner of the military town located on the land of the Fursian Rural Council of the Kyiv region. Stephen HMARI to the Attorney General for the examination of the illegal alienation of State property by the Kyiv City State Administration and the use of measures to stop the abuse of the facilities of the Kyiv Republic Planetarium. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the investigation of unlawful acts by officials of the Office of the President of Ukraine and the district government administration. [[PANUSIAN, ANTAMIC, LAPIN]] MICILI RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the cessation of the inaction of responsible prosecutors, resulting in damage to the environment in the Chernigiv region. VALLERY TO THE D.A., Minister of Internal Affairs, on investigating the causes of the disappearance of a criminal case from the archives of the Department of Internal Affairs of Kiev. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General for failing to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” concerning the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on information in the media on the involvement of Russian citizen Berezowski in preparing for the assassination of Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenk in November 2004 and the impact on Ukraine's political life. [[SLAUTA, BACHTEIVA, AND OTHERS]] Gennady SAMOFALOVA to the Attorney General regarding the situation surrounding the Ovidiopolis bird factory. Alexander KEMENYASA to the Attorney General for the cessation of the illicit sale of cooperative property by members of the Svalava district of Zakarpat. MICHELLA RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, for drawing the criminal responsibility of the leadership of the Open Shareholders Association “Black Products” for leading the enterprise to bankruptcy. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the provision of information on the number of criminal cases that have been violated for the violation of electoral legislation, in which the accused or convicted are persons who have committed criminal acts to support the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk. [[SLAUTA, BACHTEIVA, HARA]] Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison for the financing of work for the reconstruction of the travel route in the city of the Perimental Region of Lviv. Alexander FELDMAN to the Ministry of Education and Science on the analysis of educational programs and curricula at all levels in schools in order to eliminate elements of ethnic intolerance and to introduce ideas of tolerance into the educational process and educational work. BORISS TO THE GOVERNMENTAL MINISTRY regarding the failure of individual staff members of the State Executive Service of the Novovolinsky District Department of Justice of the Volin area of office. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE to the Defence Minister for the transfer of the territory of the former army of the Žitomir garrison, located in Military City No. 81, to the municipal property of the New Guinean Village Council of the Žitomir Region. Anatoly OF ORGANIC to the Minister of Internal Affairs concerning the enforcement of human rights by law enforcement officials in the Hersonian region during preventive measures. MIKOLI MELNIKA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the cessation of baseless delay with the telephone connection of the residents of the district of Stepanówka of the Teplic district of Winnitsky. Valery MASHURA to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the bureaucratic pull of the local authorities regarding the establishment of a telephone for a participant in hostilities, a disabled man from the Great Homeland War, a resident of the city of Pomocny Kirovograd. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE HEALTH MINISTRY on the allocation of a ambulance to the infirmary of Lake Zitomir district of the Zitomir region. Oleg BILORUS to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Retirement of Former Workers of the Prypet City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Kyiv Region and the commemoration of the 19th anniversary of the tragedy at the Chernobyl AES. Vladimir MATWEYEVA to the Minister of Education and Science on the issue of graduation issues for the graduates of the Odessa National Law Academy. Victor TARAN to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to provide assistance to the Onufryian Geniate Pension of Kirovograd. Groups of national deputies to the Minister of Transport and Liaison for the completion of the construction of a 40-house building in the city of Uzhgrad for railway veterans. [[Ivancho, Sietch, Mihovich]] Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the misconduct of the Social Security Department of the Semenian District State Administration of the Chernigian Region in relation to the disabled of the Great Homeland War. TO THE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVE DEFINITIVES FOR THE transfer of the headquarters of the antiaircraft division of the Armed Forces to the property of the Vasilkian territorial community. Anatolysa RACHANSIAH to the Minister of Finance for the provision of salaries to budget workers and the primary cost to ensure the normal functioning of the budgetary institutions of the cities of Eupatoria, Saki, and Sachs region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. John BOKHO to the minister of agricultural policy on the right to the free use of natural recreational resources and their effective use in the interests of the common good. KYORIANS to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning civil service tariffs for citizens of Ukraine who are in the territory of other states. Jury CARMAZINA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Secretary-General of RNBO, the Attorney-General for the violation by the closed-circuit association “Gamma Transban” of the constitutional rights of citizens and residents of the city of Ilicivska to protect the environment in the trans-shipment of dangerous pollutants – granulated unopposed sulphur in the area of the Illichiv Seaport and the agricultural export grain processing terminal. Stanislawa GURENKA to the Ministry of Health on the prevention of possible harm to the health of citizens, as a result of the simplification of veterinary control of meat and fish products. JAROSLA SOCIETY to the Ministry of Health regarding the financing of prominent medical facilities in Zaporozhye. MICHELLE TO THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND THE CONNECTION FOR RENEWING THE MOVEMENT OF THE ELECTRlNG TRAVEL No.801 KYIV – HUTIR-MIHAYLOVSKI. Mr Anatoly KLIMEN to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the legality of the activities of the management of the Agricultural Associations “The Heritage” and “Agroliga” in the district of Dnipropetrovsk. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for delaying criminal investigation into vandalism in connection with the Lenin Monument in Onufryiv district of Kirovograd. Paul MATWEIENKA to the Ministry of Agriculture and Agriculture in the Corstene region of the Zitomir region, where there was a natural disaster. Group of National Deputies to the Minister of Economics and European Integration on the placement of announcements on planned public procurement in the newsletter “The Secretary of State Procurement”. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,]] Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Minister of Defense on speeding up the transfer of military assets to the municipal property of the city of Smila Cherkaskie district. LUKYANENKA to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council regarding the appeal of the 17th Association of Officers for the recognition of UPA as a belligerent party in World War II. Mr Leonida GRAČ to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs on negative trends in the international sphere of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Group of National Deputies to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the abolition of the Office of the Procurator of the Volin Region of Criminal Matters, violated by the Special Unit to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime of the Department of Security in the Volin Region. [[BAUER, KYRILCHUK, BLOODER, AND OTHERS Total 6 deputies]] Anatholic to the Human Rights Council, First Vice-Prime Minister for the Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, against the aggression of business leaders who provide services to rural areas in Hersonian. Leonidas GADJECK to the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Commissioner of Ukraine on the violation of the Human Rights Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a citizen of Lazarenko. People of KIRIČENKO to the Human Rights Council of the United States have been under severe political pressure from members of the Party of the Regions. Valery SUCHEVIH to the Head of the State Committee on Construction and Architecture for the Implementation of the Requirements The Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine creates conditions for the unhindered access of persons with disabilities to social infrastructure. MICIVILLE to the Antimonopoly Committee on the exclusive right of companies with limited responsibility for placing advertising on TV channels Inter, ISTV, STB, New Channel, M1 and others. Vladimir SEVKOVIĆA to the State Property Fund for information on the state of the economy of Ukraine. Vladimir LESCHENKA and Omelyan PARUBKA to the Head of the Accounting Chamber on compliance with the current legislation on the use of State budget funds for the implementation of targeted agricultural product support programmes in 2004. Ms. Alexander KARENKA to the Head of the Security Service for the misconduct of the Ukrainian security forces. Anatolya KUKOBI to Head of the State Road Service for the completion of the reconstruction of the transport node on the Kyiv-Harkiv-Dowzhansky Highway. John MIHOVIĆA to the Head of the Zacarpathian District Administration, the Uzhgorod City Head, for overcoming the financial crisis and for preventing the bankruptcy of the Uzhgorod Palace of Children and Youth. Yurya BOJKA to the Kiev City Head on the organization and holding of the “Kievsky Easter in Tbilisi” campaign. To the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Investigation of the Ministry of Transport and the Communication of Information on the 3 million dollars bribe offered to him for the position of head of the maritime enterprise and for the establishment of the persons involved. A group of national deputies to the Kyiv City Head on violations of legislation in the allocation of land to build a limited liability “Guarant N”. [[BOKIE, SEMENYUK, CONTRIBUTIONS]] Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Head of the National Bank on the return of deposits to individuals by the Ukrainian Bank of Rebirth. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Security Service on bribes given by the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence according to information published by him in the “Double Evidence” channel “Study 1+1”. To the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs on information regarding the corruption activities of Colonel Vasil Song's police and the bribe of $230,000 for his recent appointment as head of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Ternopil area. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Head of the State Road Service for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road in a village of the city type of the Kyiv District. Igor ŠAROV to the Head of the Supreme Court regarding the non-interference of the Head of the Provincial District Authority in the activities of the judiciary. Mikhail Kosiva and Helen Bondarenko to the Luhansk City Head for the restoration of the municipal “Efir-1” Company. To the Head of the Sumerian District Administration, Vladimir JAVORIY, on the official receipts of the Sumerian District Administration regarding the memory of Lieutenant Alexi Beresta, the leader of the group for the establishment of the Flag of Victory over Rechstag. Stepan the Cloud to the Head of the General Audit Office for the conduct of the audit of the budget expenditure by the Court of Auditors. Group of National Deputies to the Head of the National Bank for the Shareholders' Debt “Our Bank” to investors to natural persons. [[BAZRIGA, GORLOOV, and others.]] VALLERY TO THE NATIONAL COUNCIL on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Vice - Prime Minister Mikli Tomenka, on the non-execution of national television organizations with legislation on the language of the State. Mikoli Sherschun and Valerija SAMOPLAVO to the Open Shareholders Association “Kretelekom” on the violation of the rights of residents of the different regions of the Plains region to provide access to information in the telecommunications field. OSIKI and Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Chief of Capital Construction in the Kyiv Region to resolve the issue of payment for the work done by Ukratránsbud under contract dated 15 July 2002 with the Capital Construction Authority in the Kyiv Region. Efima FIXA to the Head of Government of the Open Shareholder Society of the Skretelek to speed up the reconstruction of the telephone networks in the Red Crosscopy region. Michael ZUBZA to the Head of the Kharkiv District Administration, Head of the Kharkiv District Council regarding the improper treatment of property rights of the Institute of Animal Sciences of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the State Enterprise “Culinici – Service” Head of the Kuliničov Village Council, delaying the leadership of the Kharkiv District State Administration, the District Council and the Kharkiv Inter-Regional Prosecutor's Office at the legislative level to resolve existing problems. Mr. Leonida GRAČ to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the verification of the use of State budget funds in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Oleg BILORUS to the city’s Kiev head for improving the living conditions of the many - year - old mother of Kyiv. Vladimir DEMOJINA and Ludmila SUPRUN to the Head of State Tax Administration in the Kyiv region, Head of the Ivankovsky Interstate Tax Inspectorate for VAT Compensation of the Ukrattransbud Corporation from the State Budget of Ukraine. Georgia Bourke to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assisting the Dobropelian Regional Hospital of the Donetsk Region in the purchase of diagnostic medical equipment. Tamari Proskuratov to the Head of the Internal Minister’s Security Service for the establishment of the responsible for the organized mandatory collection of funds among students at the Kyiv University of Shevchenka at one bracelet each for the needs of the President’s wife’s charity fund. Yuhim Fix, Igor Shurma Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of information and legal assessment of the organization of illegal paramilitary formations that were openly confirmed by the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine in the media during the Orange Revolution. Igora Shurma, Volodymira Vojsza to the Attorney General, Prime Minister of Ukraine for the verification of information concerning the illegal allocation of seven hectares of land, deforestation of the forest for the construction of the dam for the needs of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Lucenka in the village of Krošilnica of the Scholov Region of Lviv Region. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Minister of Interior, head of the Security Service on the criminal inaction of the Volina law enforcement authorities in investigating criminal cases involving the kidnapping of a resident of Lutsk Skoveri Anatolia Gnatovic. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delaying the return of former S.H.I.E.L.D. worker Volin Heat Combination to the property debt of the Kyivnafthimservis subsidiaries. Refata Chubarov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the overcoming of her authority and the illegality of her decision to build a memorial in Libya to the Heads of State of the Anti - Hitler Coalition. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the involvement of members of the SDPU, former head of the Lviv regional customs office of Kozak, the Lviv leadership of the SDPU(o) and the national deputy of Shurma, former head of the Lviv regional customs office of Sal, before the detention and visit of the underground brothel under the sign of "Kampingzustritch" near the Rava-Russia customs office. Sergei Alexyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the detection of shortcomings and problems in the work of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets. Sergey Alexyuka to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the illegal violation of a criminal case. Vladimir Nechipuruka to the Attorney-General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the abuse of Ukrainian OSB personnel in Kiev by his official position and the establishment of the latest criminal group for the purpose of material wealth, the criminal inaction of law enforcement officials and the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration on criminal activities in the area of tax legislation in Zaporozhye. These, fellow Members, have been asked 195 parliamentary questions. The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 24; Communist - 39; "Ukraine's Regions" - 29; Ukraine's Social Democratic Party - 13; "Ukrainian One" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 7, NDP - "Republic" - 1, People's Party - 9, SPU - 12, Tymoshenko - 11, Alliance - 5, "Will of the People" - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 10, "Democratic Ukraine" - 9, non-fractional - 11. Dear colleagues, we've spent 55 minutes asking MPs. We don't have much time. Are we going to do factions now? Well, let's not make a break of 12 just so that some laws can be adopted. Vladimir Leschchenko is invited to speak from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Boris Rajkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u2	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine A statement by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine about the serious calculations of the organization of spring-field work in Ukraine. In the past 14 years, our nation has virtually lost food security and has become an importer of food. Only last year, up to 50 percent of the demand for meat and sugar, large quantities of grains, pasta, vegetables and fruit was imported from abroad. The authorities have done everything they can to destroy the material and technical base in the village, destroy animal farms, mechanization, storage and processing facilities, melioration systems. Agricultural production has been transformed from a large-scale high - tech mechanized to a small inefficient use of primitive tools and handicrafts. Intermediaries that supply fuel, spare parts, fertilizers, and so forth suck the last juices out of the village. The state has abandoned the village in a permissive manner: children’s gardens, schools, medical facilities, and cultural facilities are closed. Unemployment in rural areas is impressive. The population is dying. With the beginning of spring and field work in 2005, the problems in agriculture became even more acute: how to sow, how to sow, what to sow? The new government, instead of increasing aid to agriculture, reduces its volume. The 2005 State Budget for the Agrarian Sector provides only 30 percent of the cost of financing the agrarian sector. Planned expenditure on targeted agricultural support programmes was reduced by almost 14 percent compared to last year, and budget costs for partial compensation for the value of household mineral fertilizers and the costs of planting bright and osmeal crops in 2004 are not foreseen at all. Only 25 percent of the fuel needs and 15 percent of fertilizers are allocated to the entire field work complex. Most agricultural enterprises don't have their own funds for the acquisition of material and technical resources. They don't have anything to bet on getting credit anymore. Unregulated fuel prices, spare parts, fertilizers, and other means drove agriculture into a dead end, Ukraine faced a real threat to the collapse of the spring harvest campaign. The Ukrainian Company's faction requires the President and the Cabinet of Ministers to take urgent action to provide immediate assistance to agricultural producers during the spring-field work period. To do this, it is necessary to provide the village with the necessary resources, to establish strict price control, to lend cheap loans, to pay off the government's debt from targeted programmes last year. The Cabinet of Ministers immediately imposes a moratorium on the export of mineral fertilizers to the full satisfaction of the needs of the Ukrainian APC. Stop bullying the village and the villagers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u3	Boris Rykov, from the Democratic Initiatives MP group, is invited to speak. To prepare Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! A month ago, speaking from this rostrum, my colleagues and I raised the question of the principles of public personnel policy, the inadmissibility of separation on political grounds. I am very grateful to the President of Ukraine, who, in response to my statement, reaffirmed that the criteria of “patriotism, decency and professionalism” would be taken into account when appointing for office. However, I have to go back to this crucial topic once again, because there are still different approaches on the ground. I'd say the principle of "p" already is "party." Injury of politically unfavourable motives and their actual illustrations continue. Dear colleagues, in this room in our presence, the President has signed decrees to appoint governors. So let us let them deal with human resources on their own on the ground and not put pressure on them on party principles and political affiliation. Even as a national MP, I was put under political pressure to address the issue by the leadership of an influential public organization in the area. If a national MP is under such pressure, what about people who are not protected by the mandate of the deputy and who are at the service. We declare that civil servants cannot be politically engaged, but by appointing them for political beliefs, we involve them in political processes, which is contrary to the law. I can give many specific examples of pressure on people. who are simply invited to write a declaration of care, given that honest, decent people have a lot of experience who want to work for the benefit of Ukraine. The reason is their position in the elections. It often sounds like an argument, "You don't have a moral right." But let me ask you, who has given officials of any rank the right to determine the criteria of morality? And can this be a measure of support for a candidate in the election? I would like to emphasize that the very dangerous trend in finding enemies is unfortunately gaining momentum. This leads to dissipation in society, disappointment, and often to personal tragedy for many decent people. The consequences of such a cadre policy are devastating and devastating to our society. [[& Tiles]] I am addressing the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Viktor Andreevich, respected Julia Vladimirovna! Please take concrete urgent action to ensure that the principles of staff rotation are still valid. The “Democratic Initiatives” Group, as we have stated, supports these principles. Stop dividing us into our own and other people's. I call for consolidation in society. This is the only right path, this is the path of the creative forces aimed at the prosperity of Ukraine. We have one goal, and we have Ukraine alone, time to work for the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u5	Paul Sulkovski from the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" is invited to the presentation. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Dear citizens of Ukraine! The "Regions of Ukraine" faction expresses deep concern about the renewed pressure on independent media after the presidential elections in Ukraine. Just a few months after the new power came, it became clear that the situation of freedom of speech in Ukraine, as a minimum, had not improved or resulted in the State’s failure to intervene in media activities. The brutal pressure of orange power on NTN, which began on November 1st last year, is a clear testimony. Without political opposition, Journalists "NTN" are working exclusively to realize the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to receive objective information about events in our country and in the world. It's because of the independent position of the channel on NTN that pressure is being exerted. Another reason for persecution is that one of the founders of the channel is a legal person registered in Donetsk, and all that has any bearing on the Donetsk region is perceived by the new authority. The U.S. Attorney - General’s Office claims that the limited - liability association, the Information Service, allegedly failed to pay the congregation money for issuing a language license. Yet this does not correspond to reality. The television channel has documentary evidence of its position. Mr. Tomenko, who claimed that the channel had been illegally licensed to speak, was openly involved in the war against NTN. It may be concluded that the claims of the Attorney General and those of the chiefs of the Cabinet are intended solely for political purposes, not for the rule of law. It is unlikely that Ukrainian citizens have changed state authority in order to see journalists and demands justice again under the President’s secretariat. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" requires a proper response to the campaign by the State authorities responsible for upholding the rule of law to destroy the independent language of the "NTN" channel. The Bureau of the President’s Secretariat proposes that he be informed about press cases. Please consider this statement to be a report of the persecution of independent media, the actions of any authorities that have the character of political persecution must be a decisive end.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! Igor Shurma is invited to the presentation, from the faction he will be speaking to the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, as well as from the deputy group "The One Ukraine". [[united]] So six minutes for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u8	Under the mandate of the political office of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, I have an obligation to lead to the well-known decision of the 21st meeting of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] [[united]] As a result of the support of the regional organizations of the XIX, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine decided to move the party into opposition. [[united]] The party treats opposition not as war, but as opposition to the opposition or rejection of the new authorities. Our philosophy is different. Both the authorities and the opposition must move in the same direction -- in the direction of protecting and defending the priority interests of the people of Ukraine and the state. We consider opposition first of all as a means to implement our programming positions in new conditions, to force the power to act in accordance with our principles, and to fulfill its own pre-election promises that were crucial to the electorate. We will use opposition to defend the interests of millions of citizens who have a view of the social and economic and political development of Ukrainian society. By acting in the legal field, we will severely protect not only the rights of the members of the SDR, but also those who support us from possible oppression and persecution. We believe that today we have a situation in which there are doubts about the rule of law, openness and other democratic principles in the appropriate human resources system. The persecution for political reasons in Ukraine, the strong belief of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, has generally gained critical limits. [[united]] At the same time, the growth rate of domestic gross produce and industrial production is slowing down. There is no support for positive socio-economic dynamics achieved by Ukraine in 2003-2004. In accordance with the decisions of the assembly, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Party of the Supreme Council will focus on the merger of left-wing and central democratic forces as a means of resisting any authoritarian tendencies of the new power for the approval of the social state in Ukraine. [[united]] Promoting the interests of the labour majority of the population, preventing a reduction in the real standard of living, delaying wages, pensions, reducing funding for medicine and education, preventing attempts to reverse political reform and fostering the earliest adoption of Bill 3207-1, which will allow political reform to extend to the area of local self-government. We will oppose attempts to undermine the position of the national economy by foreign competitors, against efforts to undermine the development of the industrial regions of Ukraine, destroy the high technological potential of the country's defence and industrial complex and domestic agriculture. To fulfill the pre-election fundamental promises and, in particular, the distinction between business and power. To prevent pressure on the media, to intervene in their activities by politicians and officials from power, and to appeal to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other international institutions in the absence of a response, because the promises of power given abroad, in particular, and reality, are completely different things. The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine will continue to stand in favour of a legislative solution to the language issue in accordance with the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. [[united]] Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party is intensifying its work towards strengthening relations with Russia and other SND countries through a strategic partnership. [[united]] With regard to Ukraine's accession to NATO, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine insists on taking social sentiments into account and resolving the issue through a nationwide referendum. [[united]] In defending and defending the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens and states, while respecting the rule of law, the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and its faction reserves the right to choose and apply forms and methods of reaction, acting exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Bondarenko is invited from our Ukrainian faction to prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u10	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of the National Union of Ukraine. In recent times, Ukraine’s legal field has witnessed a series of events that testify to the resurgence in Ukraine of the basic positions of the rule of law and the restoration of the true role of the court. This is the notable decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the President's second round of elections, a recent ruling by the court, according to which the Odessa terrier registered Edward Gurveitz as mayor of South Palmyra, this decision by the local court of the Dalia region in Kiev, which reviewed such own decision on the groundless withdrawal from the registration of a candidate from the Yuschenk Block by Peter Golovatenko for the agreement of a candidate from the Kiev authorities, Mr. Muchovkov. These rebirths have become possible, thanks to the fact that society no longer sees pressure and threats, and judges would not want to return until they have been hanged for various parts of the body. But today we still have to overcome the fierce opposition to administrative resources, attempts to force the court to snuggle the necessary results. All these atheisms of the Bushmism era should go into oblivion. In doing so, we must learn an important lesson from trying to bring back the shameful past. This must be fought and fought seriously. The past doesn't seem and is ready for rematch using any methods. From here on out, this crazy administration that we've been talking about is from here and the intimidation of the terrarians in Odessa. Three of the members were forced to retire under this pressure. Hence the crippled bakeries near the Oedesh court, hence the facts that we talked about giving land per hectare and more land to members of the Central Election Commission of the Kiwalov elections held by the city of Kiev. It was a direct bribe from members of the CLTC. And we think that in court, we're going to look at the motives that led the people who gave these areas, what they were given not to the Kyiv people who were involved in the Central Electoral Commission. But if Bodelan’s methods were difficult to expect, the position of Kiev’s city authorities and facilities, which he did not bury, is surprising. Bodelan got rid of his position. However, the question of the responsibility of those who allow dissipation in the 60th district of Kiev remains open for the time being. I want to tell you that after our candidate, Peter Golovatenko, won the election in this district, a few days later, new complaints that had never been brought before us came forward, and the territorial election committee in Kiev made a completely unfounded decision to cancel the results of the election that is in court today. I am confident that the court of the Shevchenkov district, which deals with this issue, will act in accordance with the law and principles of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinsky of the National Party of Ukraine has the floor. Next is Michaela Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u12	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. It is clear to all in this room that in the background of political strife, strife, hostility, hatred are things that need to be at the centre of attention, to be found and to be resolved regardless of political sympathy and antipathy, regardless of what meetings are going through, when they end, and what ideology they choose. Not long ago there was a government day in this session hall dedicated to implementing legislation on veterans of the Great Homeland War. I'm fine. But the problem remained. And the key problem is that recognition of the personal merit of veterans before the country requires a weighty, much-weighted social equivalent. It's important not only because it raises the next generation, but also because it's, if you want, one of the basic indicators of humanity and eventually just the civilization of one state or another. As a result of our communication with the local council, district councils, in order to take urgent action on a vital issue for every veteran, in order to ensure a comprehensive study of veterans’ problems with a view to their full implementation, the faction of the People’s Party carries out a continuous analysis of the information received as a result of our communication with the local council’s regional, district councils. And today it's not just a rise and differentiation of pensions, but today it's an increase in the cost of treatment and nutrition for veterans in preventive care. Today it's a free hearing aid solution for veterans, eyeglasses, dental prosthetics. Today it is the provision of all of the veterans, at least 80 years old, by car. We can't just let ourselves, my dear fellows, move one car at least by the same relatives from abroad, the relatives of a veteran who has this possibility. I want us to remember that the frontists have a slightly different dimension of time, but they tend to be courageous in their own struggles to overcome difficult and often unsettled old age. But here are the realities that are addressed to our faction -- the People's Party -- by relatives who care for the disabled of war. It is also a request to increase the humiliation of six bracelets of social pay in care of a paralyzed veteran for over 15 years. [[citizen of Vrodij from the village of Tishkovka Dobroveleckiv district of Kirovograd region]] It's also a deceiving draw to pay for the military rewards of a legless frontal soldier. This is explained by a citizen named Stecenko, a widow from the village of Novodmitrovka in the Zoloni district, and many other injustices. The National Party faction is proposing to the government to develop mechanisms for the implementation of the veteran social escort system, close to the door-to-door system, and to create as much as possible conditions for those people who may not be there tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u13	Yes, Mikhailo Melniczuk of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has a word. Next up will be Yuri Kostenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is concerned about the situation in the agro-industrial complex of the state and the food market. We've already proposed to define the years 2005-2015 as a period of priority national support for the village. The total amount of funding for government targeted agrarian production programmes and rural social problems would be at least a tenth of the total expenditure of the State budget. And only two percent are foreseen for this year. We supported a socially oriented budget in 2005, but the State’s policies can be social only because of the availability of its own production, with the employment of people, including those who tied their fate to the village. The Socialist faction will support the adoption of a bill to amend the Ukrainian Customs Tariff if imports are regulated in such a way as to improve the provision of meat for the population, and domestic producers would be protected from unfair competition. The calculations show that the quota for imports into the country of meat should not exceed 300 - 400 tons; the cost of the quota per tonne of production should be at least 480 euros, 300 beef, 450 pigs. Import duty rates are 160, 100, and 150 euros per tonne respectively. Cats derived from the sale of quotas of some 900 million dollars should be directed towards supporting animal production and poultry production. Under such conditions, it is only possible to stabilize the market and reduce the price of meat and meat. We do not agree with the government’s intention to import more than 1 million tons of meat at a 10% rate of duty and 20 percent of VAT. This creates the most favourable conditions for those who introduce meat products into Ukraine and for foreign producers. However, such a step is profoundly wrong, for as a result, the animal life of Ukraine as a branch will be destroyed. If we use a budget to supply a foreign producer, would it not be better to use the appropriate funds to reduce fuel prices, fertilizers, combustibles, and other components of production to lower the price of credit? We propose to approve the use of State budget funds to support domestic meat producers, livestock, pigs, and birds. We need to consult with bank managers, oil traders, manufacturers' directors immediately to implement the terms of the agreement between the government and them. Solve the issue of the allocation of funds for the purchase of grain and sugar into the agrarian fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u15	Jury Kostenko of the Ukrainian People’s Party, from the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party, is invited to the presentation. Oleg Belarus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u16	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the Ukrainian government to the critical state of Ukrainian language in an independent state. Despite the constitutional protection of the language rights of ethnic Ukrainians, which is almost 78 percent of the population of Ukraine, the use of national language from year to year is rapidly reduced, in Ukraine for days or weeks, and not only in Donetsk or Crimea. Get on a train going east or west of Ukraine, take a chair in a comfortable plane of international airlines, turn on the button of any Ukrainian FM station or television channel, or buy a ticket to the National Palace of Ukraine -- and 80 out of 100 percent will be heard instead of Ukrainian low-quality Russian-speaking production. During the years of independence, Ukrainian language has not become a full national language, because in the corridors of power, including the capitals, self-government, judiciary, prosecutorial supervision in international institutions, in science, education, culture and other areas of political, economic and social life instead of national language, you will mostly hear a "comprehensible" cutter. The Ukrainian language in an independent Ukraine has become the object of not State care, but of the most dirty political speculations and political trades, which all bear witness to, without exception, parliamentary and presidential campaigns. And this happens when the language law and the European Charter, ratified by the Supreme Council, fully protects the language rights of all without the exception of Ukrainian citizens of any nationality. Dear colleagues, it is known that language is the soul of the nation. And those who fight against the Ukrainian language actually fight against the people who formed the Ukrainian State. The faction of the Ukrainian People’s Party claims to defend national language by all political means. We regard attempts to change the status of Ukrainian as the greatest threat to national security. We call on President Viktor Yushchenk to convene the National Security Council urgently and to develop a set of measures to protect the Ukrainian language. We are addressing all the national MPs, the authors of the bill to change the status of the Ukrainian language, to recall them and to put an end to the shameful war against the Ukrainian nation forever. We believe that only the full use of Ukrainian national language opens the way to linguistic harmony in democratic Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u17	Oleg Belarus, a faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Michael Nightingale.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Finally, the first post - revolutionary spring of our hopes and expectations came to Ukraine. But the problems and difficulties that agriculture and the village face today say that the revolution must continue in the form of an agrarian green revolution. There is no doubt that the democratic revolution and democratic power will produce their fruits in every home, in every family. For this, every national MP, politician and citizen must do everything possible to protect and realize the conquests of the people. The citizens of Ukraine generally appreciate the great social work of the new government of Yushchenka, Timoshenko. This support was demonstrated in the Supreme Council by 377 votes of the national deputies who supported the new social budget. It gives hope for a better life the government's work on customs and tax administrations, but, like everyone else, the Ukrainian People's Revolution has its own drama, and it's a drama of citizens' unfulfilled expectations. In the early days, it must be believed that the revolution ended on the ground, that it should continue in the great national organization work to combat corruption, that it should be brought to justice by all those who committed crimes during the term of bush democracy, and today it is wicked to speak of persecution. The oligarhams, the clans of corrupt bureaucracy, would like to lower the national revolution on the brakes, or under the oatmeal. Such a threat really exists in Ukraine. In the state apparatus, in the center and in places, there's actually old compromised footage, they rule, they pressure the 2004 movement activists. The democratic elite, starting with the President to reward themselves early with the Orders of the Peacekeepers of the Revolution, is just beginning. Citizens see blackmail, sabotage, silent opposition on the ground, and sometimes an intratrical struggle against the government of Tymoshenko. Citizens are asking the President and the authorities why they are not penalized in the order of the separatists in the east of Ukraine. Why the Chief Organizers of Crime in the President’s Elections Are Not Involved
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u19	Thank you. Mikola Noshchenko, from the Democratic Ukraine Group, has the floor, Leonid Kadenuk, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u20	Mikola Nightshenko, Democratic Ukraine, 160th constituency, Deaf. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, in today's speech, I would like to draw your attention and express our position on some issues that we think are relevant. Well, first of all, I've come from the district with the most important questions, or most of all, it's the civil liability of land transport owners. Ours supports the need for transport insurance as a civilized means of communication. But given the transfer of insurance rights exclusively to commercial entities, not state-owned, certain doubts as to the ability of economic-based calculation of insurance premiums that do not correspond to the income of most citizens today. My colleagues and I will vote in favour of transferring the deadlines for the introduction of this Act and reducing the amount of the social-vulnerable contributions to the population. Secondly, we supported the government's budget calculations in 2005, but for today we want to warn the government of the practice that has existed and continues to exist with regard to their distribution and use. In particular, according to the previous 2005 budget schedule, general fund expenditure is planned in such a way that in the first quarter it was 20%, in the fourth quarter it was 32. It's a similar picture of how to plan a special fund. The first quarter is 14%, the fourth quarter is 31. For example, lending to farmers is only starting in July of this year. There are other examples. Real funding comes late and cannot always be used effectively. For example, the most pressing issue today is the use of APC funds. For example, 689 million is the support of a producer of animal plant origin when the village receives these costs, by which the scheme should be faster to accept normative documents on these issues. The State Budget provides funding for dozens of government programs each year, but they usually stop at the level of the area. In areas where no one has any idea, if it does, it is like a great good thing from above. The next question is the reaction of the heads of the government of ministries, the central authorities to our parliamentary appeals. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you need your intervention. My colleagues and I receive constant receipts. What is more, we are now sending a direct transmission from the Cabinet of Ministers, and we are sending a prepared document to the Ministry. Where is the government’s opinion and conclusion? Where the decision is made by the government’s responsible leaders. I'd very much like to ask you to step in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u21	Leonid Kadenuk, prepare Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear friends, I have been repeatedly approached by my 205th district voters, especially the Hotinsky district. In recent years, in the Hottin region, construction of underground and street gas stations in the region has intensified. Taking into account the inability of the state and local budgets to finance the above - mentioned work, local executive authorities are taking appropriate measures in the local communities to co-ordinate citizens’ own costs of gasification of the area’s villages. In this way, last year, seven villages in the area were gassed, covering 35 kilometers [35 km] of underwater and 148 street gastropods with an estimated cost of 3.8 million dollars. In the coming years, 15 more locations are planned to be gassed and 73 kilometers [73 km] of underwater gas pipelines will be used, involving some 8 million citizens. The issue of the adoption of appropriate legislative acts to compensate members of cooperatives for the costs incurred, the reduction in wages for the use of natural gas and its transport or other forms of compensation is rightly raised by the members of the lawn-building cooperatives — almost all residents of the region. The solution will be able to partially compensate the residents for the costs they have incurred in the construction of gas stations in most cases, spending their last savings or loans in the bank. The electorate also asks for a mechanism to address the problem by adopting appropriate legislation and legislation to further the gasification of the district’s population at the expense of its citizens. Dear friends, this problem concerns not one region or region, it applies to all of Ukraine. By building a gas network at their own expense and putting it on balance with the state, government, or other structures, people justly demand a refund. That's why I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to consider a mechanism to compensate our citizens for such expenses. I understand how difficult this is. But in the interests of justice, it is necessary to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u23	Valérie Konovaluk has the right to speak. Valery Konovaluku's right to speak is handed over by the faction of the political party "Industries and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine". Please, Valery Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u24	Thank you. And I want to thank them for it. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. We just got back, a group of national deputies, where they were in the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital. I was approached by a working group. I want you to listen, please consider the situation that has arisen and preserve the national acquisition of Ukraine, our hospital. In a tough fight, the hospital’s administration, along with the labor force, again stood down to state property from the State Property Fund. The hospital authorities are now forced to give away the premises of the commercial structure. [[more than 500 sq m, which is an essential hospital]] In support of someone's interests, not the interests of the hospital, there are different people in their activities every day, from criminal structures to national MPs. Yes, the Ministry of Health has a proposal from the National Deputy to separate the hospital from the genetic center. In fact, last year, respected colleagues, somewhere in November, when it was not yet determined what the results of the presidential elections were, I intervened and stopped the decision of the State Property Fund to alienate 186 square feet [186 sq m] of the hospital’s premises, which was assigned to a commercial structure. This decision was overturned. But the new power, it's already alienating 500 sqm from the other structure and one hectare of land from this hospital. You know, I'm surprised that there's actually a situation around the hospital, and I, as the first deputy head of the budget committee, have been influencing funding to be provided and secured, first of all, the development of this children's institution. You know that in this hospital are the most sick children of Ukraine. And that's 11,000. kilometre Japan finds the opportunity to provide both equipment and financial, material assistance, but officials and officials of the Ministry of Health do the opposite. With this letter, Hanenko, the first Deputy Minister of Health, demands that urgent action be taken to halt the use of the designated land area — one hectare [1 ha] of land. This is the land that goes out on the streets of Chernobyl, this is the center of Kiev. For some forgetfulness. There is no playground in this hospital. We visited some of the cancer wards where there was a really terrible situation. There is no conscience, however, that this situation, which has to do with the most important child health care facility, should be directed solely as a state of policy that protects these interests. This letter, which refers to the genetic center, which is, unfortunately, signed by the national deputy Semenyuk. We will be considering this candidate for the head of the State Property Fund tomorrow. So I would like to stress once again, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I have prepared a request for the name of the President, Prime Minister, General.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u25	Yes, the honourable colleagues, the speeches by the MPs and factions have been completed. We have two petitions in connection with the dissatisfaction of the answer. All documents are required. This is Alexander Masenko, three minutes please, and Vladimir Leschenko. All applications are made in accordance with the requirements of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u26	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners and Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I address you first. On March 16, I was asked by the President of Ukraine, who was supported by the Supreme Council and submitted to the President. The point of this question is that the judge of the local district court of the Orzic Poltava district of Yuhimovich twice was unconfirmed by the Supreme Council of Judges. And on January 15, 2005, at the end of his term, X-President Kuchma signed a decree on the release of this judge as well. in a state of health that is unable to perform its functions. In this connection, it follows that Judge Yuhimovich retains the right to receive without payment of the benefit without paying the monthly income tax for a full year, a five-year-old insurance amounting to more than 160,000 dollars, and so on, all the benefits that are estimated to amount to more than 160,000 dollars. Think about it! The Supreme Council does not approve this judge twice, and the President exempts him on such grounds and leaves him with such benefits and rights. An answer has already been received from the secretariat of the President of Ukraine, signed by the first Deputy Secretary of State of Ukraine, Vasjunik. I don't know, maybe this Vasjunik for someone and a significant figure, for me he's nothing, let him forgive me, not as a human, but as the first Deputy Secretary of State of Ukraine. Like the Secretary of State, Vasjunik is no authority to me. I was addressing the President of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council supported my request to the President of Ukraine, not to the first Deputy Secretary of State of Ukraine. And I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to insist on this, because today there have been many requests to the President of Ukraine, and they have passed. And if the first or the Deputy Secretary of State will consider these questions and answer them, how does the new national authority differ from the previous Kuchmian authorities? Nothing, it's even worse! So that I don't suspect that Yushchenko is like Kuchma, I'm asking him to take a personal look at my request and give me an answer after his personal signature. I'm also politically comfortable, and I'm saying what, because it's what people who believed in Justin and said that we're going to have to stick to it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u28	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which took place on March 2, 2005, announced my parliamentary request to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Lucenka for the findings of the road traffic accident investigation, which took place in the village of Red Montenegro in the autumn of 2004, with the participation of the current head of Montenegro's district administration, Atroshenka. I received a reply from a minister who said that the criminal case was closed because of the fact that the crash was actually closed. The Ministry's response to the MP's request cannot satisfy me because there are no answers to the following questions: why the submission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 19 November 2004 of the call to criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Atroshenka, who was prepared on the basis of the findings of the investigation and agreed with the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, was suddenly inequitable only a month later and was recalled only on 21 December 2004. Are IMF coworkers involved in investigating and preparing for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for gross job errors if they were present? What was the reason for the withdrawal? Who initiated the commission’s additional technical expertise long after the investigation was completed? What documents and witnesses have shown that when allowing the speed of traffic at the designated location on the Kiev-Chernigue Highway is 90 kilometers per hour, "600-hundred Mercedes" was moving on a different stretch of road at 70 kilometers per hour? Could it possibly have happened that when a person collided with a car that was moving, as the minister assures us, at a speed of 70 kilometers per hour, the victim’s brain was smeared on the forehead glass and the victim’s own asphalt in the direction of a section about 50 meters long and his leg was torn off?Oh, my God! The following questions also arise. What is happening now in the souls of the responsible officers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, led by the former prime minister and chief of the DAI, who immediately arrived at the DPT and were struck by the unprecedented consequences of the tragedy after the alleged criminal case was brought down by the Ministry "on the brakes". Is that not why Atroshenko, contrary to the law, stubbornly does not constitute a parliamentary authority? Or do other associates have similar sins? Following the insistence of the voters of Montenegro, I demand that the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoun and Minister of the Interior of Lucenka personally verify the appropriateness of the latest findings of the investigation to the actual circumstances of the DPT and take steps to comply with the law. To inform me and the people in the Chernigian region about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, statements from MPs and factions have been completed, and all parliamentary requests have been read out. I ask the secretary in connection with repeated appeals by national MPs who do not respond at the right time, and the main question is not answered by those who have to answer the question. I ask you to examine the secretariat and submit proposals to the regulatory committee as to how motivated the answers were, whether they were given within the prescribed time limit and at the signature of the person to whom we addressed these parliamentary requests. And after that, I think we'll take the time and listen to this question with the invitation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's about Ohmadit. Dear colleagues! I've also been working on this issue, trying to reflect so that they won't take this baby institution. And, literally, yesterday he sent a letter to the President of Ukraine at the address of the Ohmatdit team. We obviously need to do everything we can to keep this for the children, even if there is something left for the children. And on that request, I think it's appropriate to have control from the secretariat. Dear colleagues! That's the thing, let's consult. The two factions call for breaks according to the Rules, these are factions of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and the Region of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd suggest they make a statement, but they don't agree. What is more, it is required that the Conciliation Council be convened during a recess to discuss issues that are likely to be reported to the Conciliation Board. So maybe this is how I'd like you, your honor colleagues, to listen now to information from the head of the National Security and Defence Committee that we have planned, Georgia Korniyovich Kruczkov, and then we'll announce a recess and hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. [[It's 5 minutes.]] Please. The committee head is asking for seven minutes. I don't think we're going to deny that we agreed on this issue at the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! A delegation in the Republic of Iraq was tasked with March 30-31. First. Discuss and, where possible, resolve practical issues related to the implementation of the political decision to withdraw our military contingent and to change the form of further involvement in Iraq’s affairs, the export of military equipment, and the calculation of military property that could not be returned to Ukraine and could be passed on to Iraqis. Understanding of the command of the coalition forces and the Iraqi authorities was found. The expenses will be reimbursed by the Americans, the property will be paid. Second, to explore the possibilities of Ukraine's participation in the postwar reconstruction of Iraq, the prospects for cooperation, in the economic, humanitarian, military, military and technical spheres. He must say that the situation in Iraq remains complex. The elections brought no relief, Baghdad front city. In 14 of the 18 provinces there is a guerrilla war. And in wartime, from December 27th of last year to March 20th of this year -- in 82 days, more than 150 cars were blown up with explosives, there are numerous casualties. Fortunately, in the province of Vásit, where we carry out a peacekeeping mission, our military environment is relatively calm. Since January 9, there have been no incidents of attacks on our military personnel. In this, the undeniable merit of commanding our individual mechanized brigade, which skillfully builds relations with the local population and the Shia, and the Sunni, the Sheikhs, the provincial authorities. Unlike the military of other nations, Iraqi interlocutors called one of these countries by name, our peacekeepers are not viewed as invaders. By the way, in just last year, they implemented 79 civilian projects worth over $3.6 million, providing medical care to more than 5,000 Iraqis. It is important, in my opinion, to note also that the decision to withdraw our contingent from Iraq did not raise any objections to whether any questions were raised by Iraqi officials or by coalition forces or by American representatives. Today, on the turn of the day, the transition from military format to large - scale participation in the resurgence of this suffering country. During the delegation, a memorandum of military and technical cooperation was signed between our States. This is a framework document for the preparation of our instructors of Iraqi military personnel, border guards, police officers, who have already translated a large part of our military functions. Transfer to pay for some weapons and combat equipment, spare parts, etc. It has been agreed that after the formation in Iraq of the authorities, the election of the President, the formation of the government according to the reports just received, the main forces of Shiite, Sunite, Kurds have reached an understanding of these issues. The already elected speaker of the Sunite Parliament, the president of the Kurds, is the prime minister of what is likely to be the Shia. A high representative delegation of the Republic of Iraq will arrive in Ukraine and the agreements will be implemented in concrete ways, as will the forms of the participation of Ukrainian experts in the reconstruction of the oil-gas complex, including transport of Iraqi oil to Odessa, energy, metallurgy, construction and transportation, processing enterprises, and the development of an agro-complex in infrastructure reconstruction. In the near future, a delegation of the province of Vasid will arrive to establish regional cooperation in Odessa, which is a very promising option. Of course, there is no need to entertain the hope that things will be simple. It is known who is now a real master in Iraq, and he is reluctant to share even with his closest partners. We need a sustained initiative, if you want, to work on government lines, foreign policy, external economics and entrepreneurial structures to defend Ukraine's interests. Some specific questions. First. In connection with the restoration of the work of the joint Ukrainian-Iraq Commission, it is important that someone in the government personally be responsible for this direction, have proper authority and direct the efforts of all organizations in the interests of the State. The other one. It is necessary to make an official decision as soon as possible on the scope of the change in the format of our military contingent from Iraq, in order to remove the various interpretations on this matter. Because right now, President Yushchenko is calling some lines, some government officials are calling others. Third. The Ministry of Defense needs to take care of the use of military personnel who went to a military school in Iraq, and they need to become the foundation of a professional army. Sadly, many peacemakers are released from the army after returning to Ukraine. And the last. There are issues that need a legislative solution, such as the recognition of peacekeepers as participants in hostilities. After all, there was a military or civilian presence one day in the area where our peacekeepers were operating. He arrived by plane in the morning, returned to Ukraine in the evening, and was already involved in the fighting. The draft bill amending the Act on Ukraine’s participation in international peace operations takes into account these circumstances, comments by national deputies, the government, the Ministry of Defence, and scientific experts. It is agreed that he will bring him to the Supreme Council for consideration as soon as possible. It is desirable that the project be reviewed expeditiously. The Peacekeepers are waiting for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u31	Thank you, Georgi Korniovich. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Leap Kseniya Mikhailovna into the "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules and at the request of two factions -- the "Ukraine Region" and the "Ukraine's Social Democratic Party" -- are being declared a break of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In ten minutes, please. In ten minutes. Break until 12 o'clock 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u32	Please take your seats. Sorry I'm late. The Conciliation Board closed the meeting. I'm talking to the initiators of the break announcement, do they have to speak? You don't? Then let me inform you and those who listen to us about the problem. Is it? Kirichenko, do you have a wish? Then let me tell you what the problem was. The two factions called for a recess and a meeting of the Conciliation Council in connection with the events that have taken place in the last days in the city of Odessa's hero city. The point was that, well, an unprecedented phenomenon, as the vast majority of the members of the Conciliation Council said, was that there was a situation that could turn against each of us tomorrow, for example, that any of us could be a judge in deciding whether the elections were in the Majority District, or whether it was in a State-wide district, it was a violation of the rights of that. Whoever's chosen isn't just admitting he's not chosen, he's taking second, third or tenth, or 15th. or any place to confess to the chosen ones. And so on and so forth. So there are nuances. They also spoke at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, for example, the idea that yes, this is the Supreme Court that showed this example, but the Supreme Court did not decide that it would admit elections that had not taken place, or had occurred with violations, to admit to the chosen one. The Supreme Court has decided to hold additional elections. And this is probably the first time in the history of our state, there I don't know what laws there in others that elections are invalid, but that one is chosen. And so on and so forth, so there's almost an hour we've been talking about it, we've come to the idea that there's going to be a draft decision that we're going to make with you, essentially. The project they proposed is the same as the court's decision. Read what it says about what was being prepared in the project. I mean, we agreed that a draft decision would be prepared, legally balanced, so that we could go where we could look at this situation. Here's what was called a break. We're continuing the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u33	Well, that's good, that's one-sided information, but I'm informing you about the Conciliation Council. You weren't in the meeting, so you might think she's one-sided. As Head, I am obliged to report on what was being discussed at the Conciliation Council. That's the first one. Two, one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u34	I repeat that for those screamers from Ivano-Frankish, who here, without knowing the Rules, wave their hands and voices. Please listen to the draft Act on the sole social contribution and administration of the single social contribution, registration number 5750. Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please, how many minutes? 3-5?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u35	I think five, because I'm both the author and the committee. Dear colleagues, today we are considering a very important issue, and I would like to draw attention to it. It is not a secret that the current system of compulsory State pension and social insurance is imperfect, especially with regard to the administration of contributions. To date, more than 38 per cent of contributions to the Labour Fund have been made to four different funds, namely, the Pension Fund, 32 per cent, the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund, 1.9 per cent, the Temporary Employment Insurance Fund, 2.9 per cent, and the Accident Social Insurance Fund, 1.9 per cent. In addition, the existing system of collection and accounting of these contributions separately for each fund greatly complicates the activities of enterprises. That is why, in the bill on a single social contribution and administration of the collection and accounting of a single social contribution, we create conditions for simplifying the collection and accounting of social insurance contributions. The bill provides for the following. First, the pooling of contributions from social insurance funds into a single social contribution. In doing so, there are functions related to the collection and recovery of debt for the payment of a single social contribution. The main discussions in previous versions of the law revolved around the amount of a single social contribution, and it was difficult for us to find agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the economy on the rate of this single social contribution. We have not begun to write any rate in the bill, but have invited the Supreme Council to submit to the Cabinet of Ministers, more specifically, the Cabinet of Ministers submits to the Supreme Council for each year a single social contribution to employers for the following year, so that the Cabinet of Ministers, when establishing the budget for the following year, can objectively calculate how much the contribution could be, which would be stronger both to the employer and would take into account the interests of all the funds. Secondly, the authorized authority must ensure the registration and maintenance of a single register of payers of a single social contribution for the purpose of modern income of insurance. Information on the collection of insurance and data on the personalized accounting system of insured persons will be made available to all funds and to the authorized authority. This will allow greater coverage of Ukrainian citizens through social insurance and secure social protection, as well as increased income from insurance funds. Thirdly, the bill establishes a transparent system of payment and the continued use of a single social contribution. All income-accounting operations and calculated transactions relating to the distribution of these incomes by types of State social insurance will be carried out by a specialized accounting institution in central accounts. This will allow for a clear monitoring of all financial transactions and appropriate monitoring of the receipt and use of a single social contribution. Dear colleagues! The adoption of the law would ensure an effective system of collection and administration of funds from different funds, ensure additional income from insurance through the expansion of the insurance contribution base and, above all, make it possible to get wages out of the shadows. I would like to recall that we have made the first step sufficiently positive, which has also already yielded results when the income tax has been reduced to 13 per cent. But we did not take the next step; we did not adopt the law that is now in question in order to allow the maximum amount of pay paid in envelopes to be removed from the shadows. And I know there's a contradiction to this law, and it's repeatedly failed in the hall because the lobby, the separate lobby of the funds, is high enough and strong enough and it feels that way. I propose the same as the committee's proposal to adopt the law on first reading and further refinement, along with the funds, along with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and with all stakeholders in the process. I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers has given a positive conclusion on first reading. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, both the former Minister and the current Minister, are also positive for the adoption of the Covenant in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u36	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u37	In principle, I have finished, I have just finished the last sentence, that the Committee has decided to recommend that the room should adopt the law on first reading and be further prepared for second reading and adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u38	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Please show me on the monitors. Three minutes. A duck.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u39	I think that the adoption of such a bill is supported by all of our entrepreneurs, because first of all, we're significantly reducing the number of checks that come into the enterprise each by its own fund. But I have a question in your report. You're predicting the creation of a separate organ that's going to make this split. You know, we have this split between local and state budgets right now, it happens automatically in banks. So the bank is given information on what proportions there should be fragmentation, and there's no need for an organ, just you automatically get each fund's payments in the amount that's determined at the political level, what's the proportion of those payments. I have an offer that, in fact, we should refuse to create an additional organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u40	We have discussed this issue with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and have decided precisely in the process of finalizing the second reading to decide whether such an authorized body in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is needed, or whether they will do so by their means. Here, we will fully rely on the opinion of the Ministry, because they will have to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u41	Please, Yeshchenko Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u42	Fucking Communist faction. Please hand over Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u43	Please, Zibank's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u44	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear reporter! You know, in introducing your bill, you've diplomatically gone away or gone through the most acute problem behind this law. That is, creating a new structure. And the fact that this structure is going to be sitting on the shoulders of a human worker to be kept at the bottom. And if the previous version of this law provided that an administrative function was passed on to one of the funds, more than that, an experiment had been conducted in the Luhansk and Zaporez areas in this regard, today it was about creating an additional structure that would be supported by workers, workers. So our faction will not support this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u45	So I'm going to repeat to you again, maybe to convince your faction that that's why we have one of the key issues that requires further development and harmonization. In the first sentence, we proposed to the pension fund to make those commitments, but the Law did not obtain a certain number of votes because it was said that it was wrong to put the pension fund on the table. And it failed, in fact, on first reading a year ago. We now propose something else, what happened at the time, and together we worked on an authorized body within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, where there should be absolutely no additional funding. That is, if the authorized authority were to do so, it would be within the Ministry of Field Affairs of those staff members who are already doing so. But once again, I'm telling you, this is a question that we're more likely to take it down to second reading. Therefore, please: support the first reading and work together on the draft law, in the process of further reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u46	Yes. Thank you, sit down, please. Let's start the discussion. 15 minutes, please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Getting ready for Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, as we consider the bill on the only social contribution and administration of the congregation and the only general social contribution that we are considering today, we understand what it is about. Today, the point is that there are such funds operating in Ukraine, such as the Pension Insurance Fund, the Immunity Insurance Fund, and the cost of being buried and born when a person temporarily loses his or her disability, industrial accident insurance, and occupational diseases that cause a person to lose his or her employment, unemployment insurance, and so on. And these funds that are operating in Ukraine today have both positive and negative. And when you look at this law, you would like to get answers about how industrial entrepreneurs today or state-owned enterprises react to it so that we can bring together all these insurance funds, as the trade committees today refer to. We understand that the trade committees that were in control today have intervened and held some of these funds under their control, and today they are not satisfied with what is proposed in this bill. We are again today wondering if we need this body to run all these funds under the Ministry of Social Policy and so forth. And to answer all these questions, we need to agree on this bill with the trade committees today. But in general, when we're looking at this bill, there's a need today that the idea in this law is very important, and it benefits our citizens and our Ukraine. Because the control of these funds that they've given birth to will be in one hand. And then the state can influence the cost. But again, there is a problem. The control of the trade committees, the trade unions that had all these funds, it has to be discussed and supported by the trade unions. Today this bill is being discussed, it is suggested that it be sent for further work or accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u48	Thank you. I can't see Yuri Solomatin. Please, Vladimir Masterskin, People's Party faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u49	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. You know, I'd just like to talk about what we're doing today in tax legislation. In my view, it was the right position to consider this law in relation to the wedge’s view of all laws that affect taxation. And what I'd like to say here is that if we don't track down any bill that either affects or affects this kind of thing. So I think that this bill actually affects us to get our wages out of the shadows as soon as possible. In what way? See, when we passed the Tax Reduction Act on the Employee 13 percent, we should talk about reducing the tax burden on employers. If so, the position of the author of the bill is clear and understandable. So let's say again that, aside from reducing the load, it has to be our ideology, we have to think again about how much the entrepreneur today is suffering from something that's not easy coming to him, he's going to have to do dozens of payment orders, he's going to have a lot of checking that comes from different funds today. And that's why it's absolutely fair, let's say, the ideology of this law that I accept is to create conditions where we're going to have, as entrepreneurs, communication with just one tester. And that would be the right thing to do. But I also remember how we passed the 4,000-1 law. Remember, this law was just included in the bill's package. Sadly, then the law was broken into small parts, and it was not adopted in the Supreme Council. Now I'm literally going to say a few words about the faction's position. The People's Party faction supports this legislative proposal in essence, as its implementation creates the conditions for substantially streamlining the procedural issues of registration and payment of fees, reducing administrative costs to ensure the operation of the funds and contributing to the purpose of channelling its funds. At the same time, the draft Law contains many shortcomings, after which it will become a worthy component of the legal system and social insurance. It also deserves to be suggested that the Government, along with the draft State Budget Act 2006, should make observations, i.e. proposals to reduce taxes on social contributions and distribution ratios between them. Perhaps it would be better to write these comments in separate articles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u51	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! First of all, I would like to address those who are now sitting to representatives of authorized factions and to you, Sir Adam Ivanovich. I would advise you to read the ruling of the Primorski Court first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u52	Please turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyevich, you will speak on the subject of the law, on the subject of the law. I've informed you of a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I'm entitled to it, I'm entitled to it. How do you know? You weren't there. Are you going to speak by law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u53	I'm in law and I'm speaking, and you're commenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u54	Please turn on the microphone. But by law, because I'll turn it off again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u55	Please put out a timer, Adam Ivanovich, or you'll be wasting my time. I'm asking you to give the team a timer, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u56	Please, I'm counting. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u57	No, you're counting! That's where the timer counts. Ladies and gentlemen, I've come to you by no chance on what people need to know, what they're discussing, and including this project, 5750. I want everyone to understand these things: so far the state has not implemented the pension reform completely the government is just trying to do it because it's been devastated. So far, a public health insurance obligation has not been implemented, an experiment has not been completed in Zaporozhye’s Lugansk, Lviv region, to improve the efficiency of the State’s trust funds in the execution of the only social insurance funds for all. So far, it's too early to talk about what needs to be created, in fact, a new ministry. That's where the dog is. Open article 14 of the mandate of the authorized body. You create an authorized body and territorial units in places, and not just such an organ, but, honourable national deputies, it will replace you. 1411 develops and approves legislation that is required for the execution by the central and local executive authorities, local self-government bodies, single social contributions and insured persons, and controls their implementation. Otherwise than a lobbyist project in the worst possible way, I can't say. I don't know why the unions keep quiet. Why are you silent? Don't you see that there's an attempt under democratic slogans to violate the brutal rights of all -- both trade unions and entrepreneurs, and citizens of Ukraine, and the government, and to seize the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Can't you see that? And I turn to those who spoke to me: please read the projects when you give them an evaluation. Thank you for your attention. I urge you to vote against this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u58	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction. Get ready for Gunnery Eugene. Please, Vernigora.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u59	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Thank you, Mikhailo Vasilovich, although I am also written down by the fifth. Seven. Here, Mr. Carmazin made a very correct warning, and why they are silent or silent with the trade unions. Don't shut up. Olga Hinzburg also said that, or asked the trade unions. They didn't. I would like to make this request to the project’s authors: Study nature first of all the general government social insurance funds listed by the Constitution and defined as sovereign funds. You know, today we're being asked to lead some state commissions, committees or, someone says, ministries to control the work of these funds. You and I have in vain agreed that in the 2005 financial constitution, the State Budget, it is already stated that the Cabinet of Ministers will hear the reports of these funds every quarter. This is interference with the activities of state-of-the-art social insurance funds. All the funds are self-sustaining, and according to the Act on the Basic Principles of Compulsory State Social Insurance, they are managed by three parties: the State, employers, and employed workers for whom the unions speak. So before we write a bill like this, we have to go to the basics with you first. If we can change the Constitution with you, if we can change the Basic Principles of Social Insurance Funds Act, then we can go through these kinds of bills. That's the first one. And the second. The nature of all five funds differs greatly from one another. For example, pension insurance is a pension insurance, for example, the unemployment insurance fund is quite different, the State's obligation to provide jobs. And only the Fund from temporary loss of employment and the Fund from accidents, and there is still medical insurance in the project, can be combined. That's two. And the third. As a member of the Minpraci College, I declare to you that the Ministry of Labour has never once acted for the merger of these funds and has never once advocated for any single body to control their work. We may still have the effects of the old government and, in agreement with it, a bill has been passed, but the new composition of the Ministry of Labour does not agree with this unification. So I'd like you and I to understand that the law is prepared to cut down the basic legislation on social insurance, and it can't be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, Eugene Gorenik, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u61	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Deputies! Not only half of Ukraine’s economy is in the shadows, but unfortunately, things are created by the State to perform certain functions and, in particular, so-called foundations. Vitali Juryovich said that such attempts to control them through the budget or in other forms, always faced opposition and always covered the rights of the workers. Thus, in time, the Budget Committee tried to conduct the Pension Fund through the budget, and it resisted. Now we see that without budget support, the existence of the Pension Fund is virtually impossible, and I'm just surprised to hear that these funds have no government control, but they're created by the state and run by government authorities. So to agree with such a concept that those funds are self-governing and the state has absolutely no bearing on them. On the contrary, in principle, such an attempt, such as putting pressure on workers, including public and private ones, is worth the attention and respect of this legislative initiative of these authors. The other thing is that it is imperfect and in such a way, it is obvious that it cannot be completely acceptable either by the Ministry or by the Supreme Council. But we're still not going anywhere to put at least a fraction of these funds, particularly pension funds, especially employment, especially in the future health insurance, under the sole government control. Therefore, the committee’s first reading proposal is totally acceptable and can be voted on today. Other provisions of the bill, particularly the deadline for its implementation, are already foreseen this year, of course it can't be implemented. It needs to be translated into a bill that really takes into account the introduction of future health insurance, as well as the state of insurance for agricultural producers and other things. But these things can be settled in the process of second reading. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Yes. Dear colleagues, the issue is over. Yes. For reasons, please, Shurma. Only those who are written down. Shurma's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u63	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Discussing the issue of a single social contribution makes us think about some things. The president of Ukraine, traveling in the countries of the European Union and yesterday during an interview in the United States, said that there were some Western values in Ukraine. In fact, in the countries of the European Union: Belgium, Britain, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, and Poland, the issue of the sole social tax is relevant, and I don't know what our president is talking about and what his one-party support is. Because he's saying one thing and they're going against the social tax. This social tax could also be discussed as positively as it is, but there is one question that worries me. It will be applied to four types of insurance provided for by law, and the issue of compulsory social health insurance is not included here. If that's the case, we're the law on health insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u64	Yes. Please, Mikola Nightshenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u65	Thank you. I ask you to pass the word to Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u66	That's right and wrong, because it's not a performance, it's a vote, and I won't. Please, Dry Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u67	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm impressed by your principles. The point is, I have to take it for granted because we have not heard a speech from the Committee on Social Policy and Work today, and unfortunately we have not heard the opinion of our committee. I want to remind you all that issues such as putting the finances of all state-owned funds under the roof are being done repeatedly. Once upon a time. In general, it's the State Budget. You may recall that just recently, up to a thousand miners were wearing helmets, demanding a regressive refund. That's the first one. The other one. The problem of infanticide is completely premeditated. There's childization and taxes, and pressure on industry or entrepreneurs, that's absolutely it. And the third. Dear friends, we have only just begun to introduce a very complex one. The system of compulsory state social insurance, we've just started to set up a pension insurance, we don't have yet, which should be in accordance with the basic law. I propose to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to announce the official position of the faction "Our Ukraine." We support this bill right on the first reading. We're perfectly aware of that. The law needs to be finalized, but I want to stress that our position is next. The self - control of the funds will by no means be violated. And this is about centralization of administration. the mandatory government pension insurance, not all other functions of the fund, and these functions are far more than they are. And I want to emphasize that we are convinced that today. extremely burdensome for employers, especially for small and medium-sized employers. And today it's a social problem. And there is also the problem of wage tinning. And it exists because of this burdensome administration and because of the large size of the congregations. So we're convinced that we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u70	Please, Olena Vasilovna Hot from the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u71	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this is the second option of a bill for a single social contribution. And, of course, he had settled very many of the comments that had been made earlier by the people’s deputies. But one question remains, as the discussion has shown, is the creation of an additional two organs -- the central authority with its territorial organs and the creation of an additional committee of thought, an accounting institution. Today, the Social Policy Committee has expressed its position on non-supporting this bill. The MP factions have also expressed this position. We have a parliamentary hearing in May on this very issue. Today's discussion, the thoughts that will be at the parliamentary hearings, will allow us to work on and remove this issue. And then from this social issue, the opinion of the people's deputies will be consolidated. And it's very important to find support from social partners, from trade unions and employers, to find a mutually agreed solution with them. So, if you please, we're going to work on this bill to re-read it, taking into account your comments, and then we're going to support most of the people's deputies. With regard to the publicity of fund reports, the government has always supported any proposal made by the national MPs. We're paying you for our social insurance. And we have to have information from the foundations about how they spend it in our interests. So I don't think you'll object to the public reporting of the funds. But they didn't, these costs, are part of those organs that aren't self-government. I thank you for your attention and ask for your support in considering the government's position to finalize the bill and then to adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u72	Thank you, Helen Vasilovna. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on the sole social contribution and administration of the congregation and the calculation of the only social contribution. Registration number 5750. [[13:17:48]] For-152. Not accepted. There's an offer for re-reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u73	On the re-first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u74	Please vote for re-reading. [[13:18:17]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. The factions? Please. For: "Our Ukraine" - 50, communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 34, "The People's Party - 6, "Socialist - 2, "Timoshenko - 4, "The Ukrainian People's Party - 16, "Social Democrats - 21, "One Ukraine" - 10, "Democrat Ukraine" - 16, "Industry - 11, "Dem. Initiatives" - 12, "Soyuz" - 7, "Democrat Ukraine" - 6. [[United]] Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and consider issues that we have not talked about once before. Will you not deny that we will include all these projects in the agenda? Will we individually vote? All together? Okay. Is there no objection? Okay. There's a denial, so we'll look at each project separately. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners. [[on expiration dates]] Bill number 6406. [[13:20:18]] For 201 Bill number 6406-1, by Bill Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, is on the vote, please vote. [[13:20:46]] For-143 It's a bill by number. Wait, please. Bill number 6406-3, author of the Alexander Alexander Moroz bill, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:21:21]] For-68 Dear colleagues, calm down. We'll go through the vote, then we'll talk. Puts the vote to the vote. No, the next bill, number 6406-4, the author is the National MP, Vitaly Homutinnik, he takes it off the table. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Ground Transport Owners is put to the vote. [[on the size of the basic insurance payment]] The author of Anatoly Seminoga's bill. Bill number 7040: inclusion in the agenda. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:22:24]] For-80 The vote is on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. [[on mandatory insurance types]] Registration number 7097. The bill's author is national deputy Bogdan Hubski. [[13:23:00]] For-37 I just don't understand the applause for what's on or off. The vote is on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters. [[on the extension of insurance premiums]] The author of the bill is Alexander Morozov. Bill number 7287. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:52]] For 232 It's on. Dear colleagues, there were suggestions for motives. Please sign up. Let me see it on the monitor. Please, three minutes. A miner. After him, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In principle, all these bills were on the same subject and simply looked at the issue of the introduction of civil liability of transport owners. We've got a bill under consideration right now and, in principle, it's perfectly normal, and I suggest we look at it on a full-time basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u76	Yes, please, Alla Alexandrovska. Get the Bronnicks ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u77	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Adam Ivanovich and respected colleagues! These bills, which have now been put to the vote for the agenda, are all about the same issue, and unfortunately each bill solves the problem in part, although the problem requires a solution in the complex. There's really a system that needs to be created here in this room. Therefore, I simply ask Adam Ivanovich to return and vote in the package on the introduction of all the bills for the session. To some extent, they relate to the same issue. None of them resolve the issue as a whole. I'd like to ask you very much. I signed up for one of them. If we discuss only one question now, many MPs who want to make their proposals, who have the voter comments, who have the electoral orders, will in fact be deprived of the opportunity to make their proposals when considering the bill. I ask you to vote in the package on all the laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u78	Well, no one is denying you the right to make proposals, because we haven't passed the law yet, so we'll just be the first to accept it. Please, Bronnikov. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! No way, since we have decided to move to Europe, we must. Adopt a civilized law. But in discussing this law, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, according to the Ministry of the Economy alone, we have a rich people. In fact, the people do not have much money. Second. I would like to draw attention to the discussion so that we do not allow this law to spin as it breathes. Every power of law, proven in Odessa, rotates like a breath. We must adopt such a law that it will certainly be fulfilled and benefit our people, taking into account their real incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u80	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues! My bill won 201 votes, but not paradoxically, I don't miss it. [[for inclusion in the agenda]] I'll explain why. I have information that by now about a million of our citizens have already fulfilled the law and have purchased some poles or other. Will we not put the law - abiding part of our society back in unequal conditions compared to those who expect it to be one day? And with regard to the proposals for repealing this law at all, I would like to point out that on July 1st, those who today think it's a re-election piece voted in the name of the faction leaders for this law that they want to repeal today. I understand that this was July 1st, 2004, and that less than a year before the election, but let's not limit this to general questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u82	Thank you, Your Honor. We're done with the motives. There was an offer, please listen, I'm going to put it to the vote right now, so that all the bills that are proposed for consideration should be included in the agenda and considered. Please vote. [[13:28:52]] For 132 Dear colleagues! 132, the decision is not supported. Once again, I emphasize to those who are yelling that this is illegal. Absolutely legal, there was an offer, and the session, the national deputies decided not to. So we put it into the agenda and we're going to be looking at Bill No. 7287, this is the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Civil and Legal Liability Insurance of Ground Transport Owners, on the Extension of Income Insurance. Author of the Morozov Bill, Alexander Valerijovich, 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u83	Here you can see that under this slogan, under this poster, the pre-election campaign of 2006 has already begun. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u84	I'm asking you to add it to me. The thesis on the populism of this Law and these bills, which are presented, is very simply proving that the conversation is only about the tariff and no one at all is saying that we are giving people the opportunity if they're in an accident to get over 75,000 dollars. And that could apply to anyone. Everyone knows that a car is an object of increased security. On our roads, but when there's not enough money to fix it, it could be a weapon at all. And this is confirmed by statistics. Over the past 10 years, more than 100,000 people were killed in accidents, and not more than a million were injured, and many became disabled. Who cares about these people? I don't understand. We have a letter to the Supreme Council from the Prime Minister. And I just want to read one paragraph here. I know what to say. "The government does not support these bills because they are aimed at destroying the mechanism of protection of the rights and interests of persons affected by transport accidents, contrary to declared integration processes, slowing down the development of insurance. Negatively, this decision can affect the appeal of our nation. Ukraine’s membership in the international auto-sustainment system will be lost. This is the only bill that corresponds to the official position of the government. First of all, the unjustly forgotten participants in combat and the disabled in war are subject to mass appeals by citizens to the benefits categories. They used to be just veterans. Secondly, the bill includes a rule according to which the insurance company had the right to refuse payment of compensation. After this adoption, it will make it much easier for citizens to receive adequate compensation. The committee supported the bill. And it was suggested on the committee, and I would like this to be included in the minutes of the meeting, the transfer of fines to the first September of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, a question to the reporter, please? Sign up, please, for as long as we can, three minutes. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, released from the occupation of Odessa Your Honor, I fully agree with you in your assessments, in your approach to the government, and in your personal response to this law. I'd like you to explain, maybe not everyone understands that today, what are the benefits, what are the downsides of what the law is doing today, first. And secondly, how the participants in combat and disability and the other people who manage the proper means of transport, as they will, improve their condition once you adopt yours, just your draft changes to the legislation mentioned above. And how can we protect their interests if they drive not their own car, but, say, their children, their children?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u87	They can get this insurance policy for themselves. And this bill, as I said before, adds to the categories that were previously forgotten. So even those veterans who have the Volgs and the Wins, they can get the insurance policy for free.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u88	Nosenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u89	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u90	Alla Alexandrovska, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u91	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Please tell me if you, as a national MP, do not understand that any bill must meet the needs of society and respond to the realities of that society. Today, the vast number of people living in Ukraine are impoverished. Any law taken out of their pocket by a cop is immoral today. You propose to introduce certain benefits. The previous colleague has already asked you: how do you suppose that a fighter who is now 80 years of age should be personally driving this vehicle, and that only he gets this benefit. Do you not realize that it is immoral to talk about benefits today, even though you realize that they will not be able to benefit from them? Why did you pass such a bill? Why do you object to the repeal of the Act today at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u92	First, the cancellation will result in us taking four steps back from the European Union. I understand the communists are fine with that. But we have a government that supports it, first of all. Let me answer that. You want to scream, scream. I'm informing you that you're taking care of the drivers and the drivers are 10 million.Oh, my God! And pedestrians, 38! And that's when they say and when there's an argument about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u93	I ask you, Your Honor, allow me to express the view of the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u94	You'll understand, if a man sits behind a wheel and he only has gas money, and he's in an accident, and God forbid he kills someone, and that's a breadwinner, that man will never be able to keep a family alive. And that's the only way we can protect it. That's the only way we can protect him. I think they understand what they're talking about. How can we not? Of course, 75,000 are paid in the event of an accident and plus 25,000 for compensation. You read the law. You're against the law and you haven't read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u95	Alexander Valeriyovich, thank you, time is up. Thank you, sit down, please. He'll be speaking from the Homutinnick Committee, won't he? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! The Committee has considered all the bills that have been put to the vote today and the final decision, I would like to say immediately that it was in the first reading to support the author Morozov's Act 7287, which he had just reported. Why this bill? First, the draft law increases the benefits for those categories of people who need insurance policies to be cheaper today. Benefits amounting to 100 per cent for persons with disabilities of war, participants in the Chernobyl disaster, are being introduced. Benefits for warring parties are also being introduced. On referrals, many appeals have been made to the Committee by persons who have retired. In fact, they benefit 50 percent. But there is a restriction in the law that the benefits can be extended only if the engine is up to 1,600 cubic centimetres. This law corrects this first such gap, and it is proposed that up to two and a half thousand cubic centimetres of cars be raised so that pensioners on the old Volga, “winning” can also benefit. Therefore, the treatments that have been received are practically taken into account and reflected in this bill. It is also proposed that article 43 be introduced, which implies the establishment of a Preventive Action Fund at the Motor Vehicle Insurance Office. And one per cent of insurance premiums for insurance companies should be paid to the fund, and the Motor Transport Office should, at its discretion, carry out those activities that would ensure road safety and provide a social explanation of the project, as well as assistance to the auto-inspectors. The Committee also considered the extension of the time limit for the imposition of fines. And the preliminary committee agreed to this rule in order to transfer the fines to the first September. However, this rule can only be considered in the second reading process. Therefore, what was heard by Deputy Morozov is the opinion of a member of the Committee. And if such amendments are for second reading, we are prepared to consider them in the Committee. In general, the Committee's decision is to adopt the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u97	Questions. Please sign up for three minutes. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Eugene Gorenik, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u98	Dear Vitaly Yuriovich, I do not really understand why second reading is necessary. There are specific proposals, and if they are voted today, what will they transfer to the second reading? That's the first question. And the second question is, why did your colleagues, who were both in June last year and July last year, vote in favour, including with the president's amendments, where there was a question of the possibility of creating financial pyramids, as if it had already been removed, and today so against the adoption of this law? Explain to me whether there are financial pyramids or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u99	As far as the so-called financial pyramid is concerned, the draft law provides for such a system, that if insurance. First, no insurance company can participate in this type of insurance. The insurance company should contribute a certain fund of 100,000 euros there and a certain graduation of up to 500,000 euros to the motorized transport office fund. And if the insurance company does not pay according to its obligations to the person who was injured in the accident, then the motorized transport office from its funds, which have been set up so far, is obliged to compensate for these expenses and then to deal with the insurance company. I mean, the mechanism is that, of course, the issues will be from insurance companies, but we have tried through the ICTY to include such a guarantee that the person who gets into a traffic accident is immediately there. All costs are compensated. With regard to the vote, who voted, I think this is not a matter for the Committee, but more for the factions that have decided. Yes, and by the first reading, there may be amendments and not such a simple law, and we would like to recommend in the first reading that, including those who have submitted bills today and who have not passed them for any reason, they should be able to submit a second reading proposal and the committee could consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u100	Valentin Josephovich Matthew. Vladimir. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u101	Vladimir Matveyev, Communist faction. Please pass the word to the Communist faction Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u102	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u103	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vitalia Yuriovich! The main mass of auto-lovers is poor people, they actually drive rarely, and the insurance contribution should be paid in full. According to the committee, why should the poor compensate for the consequences of drunken drunk - minded rich people who walk the highways and streets and kill people? And the second. In your opinion, how are road users protected from the consequences of road traffic accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u104	I would like to immediately try to answer this question in such a way that the introduction of this law not only frightens the person who rides a car and is a potential risk subject, but also insures the person who crosses the road and who is also able to commit an accident on some fault. And compensation, damage, both physical and property, must be done immediately, not through courts or payroll payments, as is the case today, but through a civilized mechanism that operates, in principle, throughout the world. This bill provides for this. With regard to people who are unable to pay, let's say, the cost of the policy, for that reason we are proposing this law, 7287, the Committee recommends that the benefits for those categories that I have already listed be supported. It will also be possible on second reading to strengthen the social dimension of this law in order to protect those who do not have the financial capacity to pay even those tariffs that are in force in the law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to talk. Let's take more time to discuss, we're talking. I'll take care of it at our place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u106	Yes, for reasons of what? We don't vote. For reasons of vote then, please. Cowchenko Mikola, Communist faction. Before the vote, Alexander Alexandrovich. Before the vote. Getting ready for Carmazin is 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u107	Dear radio listeners, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I can congratulate you on the fact that corruption has taken place in the walls of Parliament and the Committees. And I personally accuse you of this as Chairman, and I accuse the Committee, which has allowed 8 laws to commit fraud. Act 7287, registered on condition of 4 numbers, 4 April, was considered by fire yesterday and Burak signed it as a national MP, as the drafter of the bill and today everything has been done to avoid the inclusion of the previous bills on the agenda. In this case, there are differences in this Act, the Explanatory Note refers to September 1st, and the table does not say a word on this issue at all. Second, the bill, which was drafted by other people's deputies, was intended to clarify, calmly amend and adopt a normal, European, indeed law. To date, the Government is about to put 700 million dollars into the budget by this bill. Insurance companies that collect three billion dollars and don't pay insurance premiums will form and run. He'll ask no one. What are the consequences? So, as President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the protection of the rights of drivers, we will address all areas to block the implementation of this Act for one reason. There is no legal right for the GAI to require policies today. This is the second time, if either by decree, the Minister returns, or by order of the Minister, is going to answer that question, so he will answer. The GAI has no right today, I'm talking to the drivers, the GAI has no right to demand a policy from you, so build your relationship, send it to the prosecutor. Yeah, send them to the D.A.'s office to consult. This is today a conspiracy in such a vital law for three-quarters of the population, today a conspiracy has taken place at the level of the Government, the Committee of the Supreme Council, headed by Burjak and insurance companies, which will run exactly three weeks after the money is collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u108	All I want to do is categorically drop the charges of corruption and I would ask you, when you speak, to speak with argument rather than to make public accusations. Please, Karmazin. I wasn't in the hall when I asked a question, I wanted my position, and don't put your views on others. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Respectable national MPs, respected citizens. More than one million citizens have already met the requirements of the mandatory civil liability insurance law for land transport owners. We are with you a country that has adopted this law the last of the European countries. And only after January 1st and after six years of transition did Ukraine become a full member of the international auto-terrorist Green Map. Today, our autolovers can go to both the Russian Federation and Belarus, and there is no abuse at the border when a person has this policy. But I was absolutely against it and voted against all the changes and additions that are now, and against the way that we're all set. We have a plan when we approve it with you, legislative work. Why do we keep breaking it? Why does one or another force allow this to happen? We spent almost all our time with you today. For what? At the meetings. And it took time to push beyond those questions right now. If we are even accepting an additional question, why are we considering it? This issue was to be considered after the questions that had already been approved in the order of the day. Keep going. I am absolutely in solidarity with my colleague Kravchenk about the clarifications that occasionally go to the press that the police will check. It's not her duty, it's not the police to test the responsibility. DAI has no right to demand the police, even if the DAI were the head of a non - Russian semiliterate citizen, rather than a Ukrainian citizen who was in the office of the chief of the DAI of the Republic for two weeks. It's a national disgrace at all. But it was in our history, in the modern history of an independent Ukraine, after 14 years of independence. It's done. But I want to ask you, Your Honor, where is the Code of Road Traffic Laws that we've been working on? Why isn't he in the hall? Why is no one interested in stopping the situation today? When 60,000 people are injured in the country today. The damage from these accidents is two billion dollars a year that people are doing. So, your honor, there I saw, looked at, and I asked in vain the question: where are the additional guarantees to the participants of the fighting, the disabled of the first group? Earlier, 50 percent of the additional grants were provided in the law. I'm sorry, I didn't see it in this project. I won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u110	Vladimir Kafarsky, faction of the People’s Party. The next one's going to be Fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u111	Vladimir Kafarsky, faction of the People’s Party. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the allegations of corruption by the Chief of the Supreme Council are unfounded. The Supreme Council voted on this document today. Moreover, as the Head stated today, he was absent from consideration of the matter. Because I think you need to be more correct on these issues. On the other side. We have an increase in the number of cars, an increase in the number of accidents. In fact, cars are owned by people who today are not able to compensate materially for the damage. Another question about that. If you are going abroad, you will see that today our drivers are buying insurance green cards, not in Ukraine, but in Poland and other countries, because they believe that they will be provided there, they will be compensated. In this way, the whole system is not regulated today and politically speaking in any way necessary, it needs to be settled. My position in this respect is that it's worth reducing the amount of insurance contributions that we're making today, for example, up to 100 dollars. If you put this amount down to 100 dollars, you're going to have to pay back, you're going to have to make 127 dollars 80 dollars to 191 70. According to the calculations made in Kyiv’s example, on the condition that the effective rate of basic insurance is equal to 291 bracelets, the result of insurance companies will be 220 million. The establishment of a basic insurance rate of 100 dollars, as the calculations showed, will not only cost the insurance company, but also contribute to keeping its income of 32 million. That's right. And this amount is not final. So we have to introduce disability insurance, pensioners, reduce the amount we spend on insurance, and at the same time we have to develop insurance because it costs people their lives and their social status. I think we need to put this project up and vote for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u112	Vitaly Šibko passes on the right to speak to Alexander Frost. Please. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would like to speak now not so much about the substance of the law as about the procedure, how to proceed further in this situation. Everyone understands that the law adopted by the Supreme Council, yes, it meets European requirements in some basic parameters. But it is not designed to protect the interests of pedestrians or to protect the interests of transporters. It's focused on the interests of insurance companies, and everyone understands that. Therefore, it would be necessary today to consider draft amendments to this law, considering projects that are not supported by the session hall today in order to include them in the order of the day. And in order to get out of this coalition, you would have to, because these documents are registered, and they're registered a lot earlier than this law that we're considering right now, all of these proposals are passed on for second reading and considered as proposals by national deputies for that. So you can take all the shades into account. Because we're talking about European experience right now, not taking into account just one thing: the insurance company, the insurance company's representative, will be right next to the police on the spot, and you'll be waiting for us. And by law, if it wasn't there, you don't have to count on other, let's say, the benefits or the risks of the insurance campaign. Another factor to consider is that in Europe, in Russia, in particular, insurance contributions are compulsory, but the amount of the premium is determined by the insurer himself, the citizen himself, the subject himself, because he is counting on what he has in his car, whether he will have anything to do with it, and so on, whether he has the ability to have the income to make those contributions. Well, let's just say that today the vast majority of our citizens use cars up to 1,000 cubes, they're small cars, he's. With a motor with one, with a small one, can he make an insurance contribution today? That's an extra, essentially, taxation of a vehicle that, by the way, doesn't provide any guarantees. I am convinced that the second reading should be referred to, because what Alexander Morozov proposed, it is more positive than the law in force, should be voted in the first reading, but to the second reading add to all the proposals of all the draft laws that were being considered today in order to include them or not to include them in today's session. I think it will then be the answer to what people today are demanding. Owners of vehicles from illegal, or more faithfully, based on the law of battles for the benefit of insurance companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u114	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare. Dear colleagues, we continue to work for 15 minutes, our morning meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u115	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. I support this bill, but only to open up an opportunity for the Supreme Council to solve the issue of compulsory civil liability insurance for land transport owners radically, once and for all. There were, in fact, two conflicting views in Parliament. A group of national MPs are acting, on the one hand, in favour of fully abolishing the mandatory civil liability insurance of land transport owners, and another group of national deputies lobbying for insurance companies are eager to implement the applicable law at all costs. The bill that we're currently discussing, I'm pursuing, most likely, this second objective. The expansion of the circle of people who are subject to the tax regime is not the main novelty of this bill. The main novelty of this bill is the creation of conditions for the foundation itself, which is the main one. So the truth lies somewhere in the middle. And if we, the Supreme Council, want to solve this problem, we should not reject the bill. And the fact that we didn't vote in favour of hearing the six or seven bills that were before is a big mistake. We have to say today that the base contribution today needs to be changed and changed from 291 to 100 bracelets. It's going to be a normal profit for our insurance companies, but it's going to be a new mechanism for our citizens. You see how many accidents are going, how many disabilities, how many car crashes, and, in fact, no one can pay for anything. We close our eyes like there's no problem, and we don't want to solve this problem. So my proposal is to adopt this bill in the first reading, and all the ideas of those bills that we haven't considered so far, put it on the second reading of this bill and look at this problem in the complex. You saw the Russian situation yesterday, and it said that a lot of insurance companies collected the money, and then they waved the handle. What does that mean? This means that we, the honourable people's deputies, if we stand for the very interests of the people, the very interests of the citizens, we must look at this issue from the position of state guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens, of those who are today. He's scared. Do we have enough mechanisms in this bill or not? I think it's not enough. But on the other hand, we have to understand that we have three sources of investment, that's the Pension Fund, that's that kind of insurance and that's, for example, citizens' investments. So all we have is a citizen's investment mechanism, and other mechanisms don't work. We must follow a civilized path, so the insurance should be, but it should be unburdened.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. There is a motion to put it to a vote. With motive? Please sign up, three minutes. Three minutes, please sign in. For reasons of vote. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u117	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. I support the proposal made by the representative of the Hare to vote in the first reading, but in one detail. After all, we have a coalition that only Mr. Lucenka's good will to the Minister of the Interior does not allow the road and post office to fine our citizens who did not carry out insurance by April 1st. I mean, in the first reading, but with introduction. transferring the introduction of this article on fines until at least 1 September or even 1 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u118	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u119	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the word to a colleague of Kravchenk Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u120	Mikola Kravchenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u121	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, although on 17 December my draft law on this issue, which I think would have been arranged, ignored, and not allowed to consider, I still ask you to give the secretariat a protocol mandate to give us some time, to supplement the second reading and to immediately put it into consideration so that we can influence the situation in some way. Or, if colleague Frost agrees, this is what was deleted by the Committee "by September 1st" to postpone, so to speak, the liability for non-refoulement sanctions. Thus, we will come out of this legal conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u122	Basil Potapov, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u123	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to give the floor to my colleague Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I would like to reiterate once again that all the laws that have not been passed today can be amended as amendments after the first reading of Law 7287. That is why I would like to propose that we go to the vote and adopt this law because it does indeed extend social guarantees and benefits to those who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u125	The Sadducee faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u126	I'd like a word with Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u127	Alexander Frost, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! I repeat my offer. We need to support the project that Alexander Morozov reported on in the first reading, and we need to anticipate it immediately when we prepare for the second reading, including all the proposals that were provided for in the draft laws, and to list them there.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-04-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The speeches are over. Seminoga, Assadchev, other recorded people, but time is running out. Dear colleagues! Just before the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Transporters is put to the vote, this is registration number 7287. [[on the extension of insurance premiums]] Let me put it this way: when we adopt the law as a basis, there is a established practice that the authors of other bills can then submit proposals to these laws and the committees will consider them and determine them. If he doesn't, and the author insists, we'll be voting on these proposals on the second reading. And to write that now to take these positions into account, I don't think there's any reason, obviously, that they'll still be counted, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, as additions and proposals. So, dear fellows, let's see it this way that we are now voting as a basis when the decision is made, then for the next plenary week we will have to take it as a law. Yeah, protocol assignment. Therefore, a motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters, on the Extension of the Income Conditions of Insurance, Registration No. 7287, please vote. [[14:07:52]] For 340. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, let's do it. You don't know what this is about. Let's give a protocol commission: consider it on the second reading, April 19th. No warning? It's Tuesday, plenary day. Well, yeah, we've got time, one minute, respectable colleagues, one minute, respectable colleagues, we've got five minutes left, there's such an offer, one minute. At the Conciliation Council, we considered a request from the Cabinet of Ministers to return to the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement, a project to develop a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We've been looking at this bill, and the Supreme Council has canceled it, but... No, respectable colleagues, one minute. At the Conciliation Council, we discussed the issue, concluded that we would put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then we'll take it out of the agenda. So in order to determine myself, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Loan Agreement, a project for the development of a system of state statistics for monitoring socio-economic transformations between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number 0218]] About the turn-on. [[14:09:53]] For 215 Questions. One minute, one question. Dear colleagues, questions are not included in the agenda. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock. Well, appropriately, but first, let's put the second reading and draft decisions on government days and parliamentary hearings, organizational issues and personnel. And then.
