ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:22]] The 390 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today it is the birthday of the national deputy Anisimov Viacheslav Aleksandrovitch, who was 50 years old. Let us welcome him at noon and wish him success. [[Applause]] Please listen to the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on March 3. Twenty-eight issues of the agenda have been considered. Nine laws were adopted as a result of the consideration, and one bill was adopted on the first reading as a basis. Two bills have been rejected. An examination of a question has been carried over. 17 rulings were passed, five draft rulings were rejected, and one was withdrawn. As a result of the President's consideration of Ukraine, three laws have been passed in a new edition, and one law has been repealed. And now, dear colleagues, the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchuk, Sergey Volodymyrovic, from the composition of the National Party of Ukraine and the faction of the National Party of Ukraine. Similarly, I am informing you of the entry into the Julia Block of Timoshenko Gladia Mikhail Vasilovich and Borzich Alexandr Ivanovich. Let's say hello to the worthy faction. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Abdullah Rahkatovitch, from the composition of the MP's Faction of the SDPU(o). Dear colleagues, allow me to make the questions that have come, while I am asking the Ukrainian national deputies to sign up for the speech. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the funding to complete the construction of the historical museum in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:38]] Z-87 Request not supported. Don't you understand? Once again, dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the President of Ukraine for the funding to complete the construction of the historical museum in the city of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki Kyiv region. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:06:20]] For-191 Request supported. I would like to vote on the motion to the President of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:06:44]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 21, Communists -53, "Regions of Ukraine" -42, People's Party - 3, SPI - 22, SDPU - 6, "One Ukraine" - 16, Block Timoshenko - 7, "Democratic Ukraine" - 14, "Will of the People" - 1, "Democratic Initiatives - 9, "Union" - 9, Center - 0, NDP, Republic - 2, non-fractional - 9. Mr. CATHERINCHUKA lo President of Ukraine, on the award of individual citizens by the President of Ukraine's marks and honours for a significant personal contribution, the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens during the electoral process. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:07:44]] For-79 Request not supported. Victor TURMANOVA to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the sharp tightening of the current wage pay situation for coal workers in 2005. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE Prime Minister on the allocation of gasification funds for the military town in the village of Berezovka, in the area of Zitomir. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Head of the State Property Fund to respond to the appeal of residents of the town-type village of the Upper Christian Region of Cherkas for the illegal privatization of the Verkhneki sugar plant and for its permanent financial failure. [[CARMASINE, SAKRIKO, TRUTH]] Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for the implementation of the State Programme for the Protection and Conservation of Immaterial Cultural Heritage in 2005. Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister on the suspension of article 45 and paragraph 40 of article 73 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. Anatolia KZŁOVSKI to the Prime Minister for the financing of the construction of the Taslic Hydroaccumulative Power Station of the Mikolai region. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI TO THE Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on inadequate financing of construction needs and housing for military personnel in 2005. Mr. Vladimir NOVACA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the gasification of the Letician region. Vassila NADRAVIA to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work to eliminate the submergment of the Kamyanobrid district of Lugansk. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister for the financing of the work after the completion of the construction of the Techiev-Bedevla-Tereswa gas pipeline and the search and development of the design of the high-pressure gas pipeline Bedevla-Solotvino in the Zakarpatsky region. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney-General on the criminal offence of the Odessa City Head for corruption, abuse of power, excess of authority expressed in the adoption of one-person illegal decisions and the signing of orders to assign individual citizens to apartments in contravention of the rule of law. [[CARMASINE, HORNIK, WORKER, AND OTHERS]] Tamara Proscurata and Efima FIXA to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration, on the basis of the current legislation proposed to reprivatise its scale and implementation criteria. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the state of implementation of the budget for the depressed city of the Shakhtar region of Donetsk. Anatolia KOSLOVSKI to the Prime Minister for financing preparatory work for the construction of a bridge crossing across the South Bug River in the city of Mikolayev. Mr Olga HINZBURG to the Prime Minister on the procedure for the numbering of pensioners who worked in harmful and dangerous conditions under list number 2. Mr. Alexander GOLUBA to the Prime Minister for strengthening Ukraine’s cooperation with UNESCO in the fields of education, science and preservation of Ukrainian cultural monuments. Vladimir NOVAK to the Prime Minister on the situation that took place in the work of the Hesed Best Regional Charity Foundation. Vassila NARAVIA to the Prime Minister on the critical situation with the provision of drinking water in Lugansk. Anatolya MATVIENKA to the Prime Minister on bringing the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 22 January 2005 No89 and Decree of the National Energy Regulatory Commission of 29 December 2004 No1264, which contravenes the laws of Ukraine on “Electrification” and “On the Government Budget of Ukraine for 2005”. Vladimir ÍŠENKA and Omelyan PARUBKA to the Prime Minister for the violation of the constitutional rights of workers of the Orlovetske Agricultural Society of the City of Cherka district. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, on the allocation of the Tavria to the people with disabilities of the Great Homeland War before the 60th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, Attorney General on xenophobic statements by Vice Prime Minister of Humanities Mikli Tomenka. [[FIX, PRIVATE, SHUFRIC, OWESH]] Mr. Alexander Feldman to the Prime Minister on issues of national policy. Vladimir ZUBANOVA to the Prime Minister for the gas shut-off and the cessation of the heating season in the city of Zugres Donetsk. Vladimir DEMOCHIN to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, on the situation at the Herson Shipbuilding Plant. Valery GORBATOVA to the Prime Minister on the resurgence of hydrometeorological processes on the basis of the Crimean Armed Services. Sergia GMIRI to the Prime Minister on removal from the only state mine register of the “Zamkowska” city of Branka Lugansk region and the preservation of existing mines. Istwana HYDOSHA and Anton KISSE to the Prime Minister for not allowing the liquidation of the State Committee in matters of nationality and migration. Gennady ASTROV-ŠUMILOVA to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide clarifications on the provision of fuel to citizens' pension categories. Anatolia GREZYEVA to the Prime Minister on the appeal of the Jankoj Regional Department of the Council of Entrepreneurs and Employers of Crimea regarding the reduction of the fixed size of insurance contributions to the general government insurance of small and medium-sized enterprises. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service on the situation that took place in the open stock company Čerkasigaz. [[MUSIC, CARMAZIN, NON-CHIMPERS AND OTHERS]] Mikhail RODIONOVA to the Prime Minister regarding the implementation of article 57 of the Education Act in the area of free use of heating and lighting housing for teachers working in rural areas and urban villages. Mr. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of additional funding for institutions and institutions of culture in the Volin region. Igora STAYA to the Prime Minister for the maintenance of the Strý Street Road Hospital. Anatoly of ORJAKOVSKI to the Prime Minister on the financing of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of a multi-story building in the city of Skadovian Hersson, which was damaged by the explosion of natural gas. Vladimir LECHENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister on the repayment of the debt on the payroll of employees of the former shareholders association “Ripkiné Lénozad” in the Chernigiv region. Hennady RUDENKA to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office on the facts of the gross violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium for the conduct of solid sections on the mountain slopes in the Barley and Bouquet Forests of the Carpathian Region, in the Stražinetsk district of Cherniewec. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to the Cabinet of Ministers for the payment of compensation for unused sanatorium trips to pensioners in the District of Rivezni. Paul KACHAURA to the Attorney General on the illegal transfer of the Truskavetski City Council of the water supply and water supply branch to the statutory fund of the Society with limited liability “Truskavetski Vodkanal” and the transfer of more than 135 hectares of water and forest funds to a limited liability company “Alpha-Plus”. Jaroslav KENDZYORA to the Attorney General on the verification of the activities of the former management of the Open Shareholders Association, “Livium Homebuilding Unit No.2”. Vladimir ANISHUKA to the Attorney-General for the violation of legislation in the area of land ownership, located in the village of the town type of Bay of Bilgorod-Dnistrovska Odessa. MICHELLE REDOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, in connection with the investigation of the illegal actions of the Ninja City Head. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Justice for the Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Investigation. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, for the enforcement of the lawfulness of energy companies. Kirila POLIŠČUKA to the Attorney General for violating the liquidation procedure for the bankruptcy of a closed-circuit company, and a closed-circuit company, Sugar Company Cochoobej No1, in the village of the city type Kyiv Region. John MIHOVIĆA to the Attorney General, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, regarding the deterioration of environmental safety and the need to strengthen its legal protection. Vladimir ANISTUKA to the Attorney General for the protection of the land rights of citizens of the village of Paliyov of the district of Odessa. A group of national deputies to the Attorney General on human rights abuses and attempts to organize a large-scale campaign of political persecution and intimidation against citizens. [[SHUFRIC, FIX, PRIVATE, SURMA]] Mr. Michael BAUER to the Attorney General for a formal examination of a citizen's petitions by the Prosecutor's Office in the Chernivets region. Mikli RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Head of the General Audit and Audit Office, for the conduct of a review of the management of the National Architectural and Historical Reserve “Chernigs of the Ancient”. Mr. Mikoli NOSENKA to the Attorney General regarding the delay in the investigation by the authorities of the Kozelec District Attorney’s Office in the case of trauma with the death toll of the Berlog resident. Alexia MALINOVSKI to the Attorney-General on financial and economic irregularities by the management of the Open Shareholders Association Chercasioblenergo. Igor Schurmi and Tamara Proscurator-General on the political persecution of Ukrainian Socialist Party activists in Lviv. [[united]] GREGORY BONDARENKA to the Attorney General regarding the illegal criminal offence and the detention of a citizen. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney-General for the formal examination of parliamentary appeals to the Attorney-General on the violation of legislation in the granting of land to the closed association “Soyuz Auto” in Zaporozhye. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General for the delay in the investigation of the criminal case in the election of the Mukatov City Head of the Zakarpat district on April 18, 2004. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General for artificial braking by the leadership of the Dniprodjinski Dniprodjinski District Department of Internal Affairs Department for the discovery of a criminal case for the assault of a national deputy and his assistant consultant. Vladimir ZAIZJA to the Attorney General regarding the concealment of the crime by the Prosecutor of the High Town District of Kyiv. Jury CARMAZINA to the Attorney General, Ministry of Internal Affairs, on the improper investigation of a criminal case, violated by the Investigations Department of the Office for Combating Organised Crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev concerning the so-called “bands of coups” and the cessation of the illegal persecution of members of the task force in the investigation of the crime in question. Eugene HIRNIKA to the Attorney General for the illegal transfer to the Ministry of Defence of the administrative premises, the military hospital, the Garrison Building of Officers and other property owned by the private firm “Prikarpatska financiska company”. Mr. Nestor SHUFRIĆ to the Attorney General for hiding the crime from the Public Prosecutor’s Office of the city of Mukachev Zacarpatsk. MIKO MARTINENKA and Anatolia MATVIENKA to the Attorney General for systematic violations of the rule of law in Ukraine’s energy supply companies. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on the non-target expenditure of the budget in the National Reserve “Sofia Kyivska”. LEFT MIRIME to the Attorney General, Ministry of Environmental Protection, on the verification of violations by a limited-liability “Crim TexasNafta” of environmental legislation in the exploitation of Akta and Priezer oil and gas fields. Nestor SHUFFRICH to the Attorney General on the legality of making a lease with the subsequent redemption of property between the Regional Office of the Reserve Fund in the Zakarpatsk Region and the limited liability society “The Thought Club of Kreminka”. Vladimir WOJŠA and Valerija BORZOVA to the Attorney-General on the legal evaluation of the actions of former security guard President Melnick of the Ukrainian office of the President of Ukraine and the distribution of the records received and the course of the investigation in this case. Jaroslav KENJORA to the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, on the legality of obtaining land for the construction of the “Integralbud” company in Lviv. Stepan HMARA to the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the verification of the legality and justification of the criminal offence in relation to the Chief of Criminal Investigation of the Corsun-Shevchenkov District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Cherkas region. Andria POLIETA to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the requirements of the legislation by members of the tax police of the Kirovograd United State Tax Inspectorate. MIKOLI ONISTUKA to the Attorney-General for the conduct of the inspection and invocation of the responsibility of officials of the Open Shareholders Association of the “Romanian Glass Plant” for the violations they have committed during the course of the business bankruptcy procedure. Bogdan KOSTINJUKA to the Attorney-General on the grounds of dissatisfaction of the reply to the parliamentary request for biased treatment of officials of executive authorities and local self-government, obstacles to the free exercise of the right to choose by way of bribery with the involvement of shadow funds at the local level, the costs of the central and district electoral headquarters of one of the candidates for the post of President of Ukraine in Bilgorod-Dnistrovska constituency No.144 of Odessa. Leonidas SERGEANTA to the Attorney General for the purpose of carrying out an examination of the arbitrary destruction of the plantations of the logging system and of bringing to justice the responsibility of the officials of the association with a limited responsibility of the “Dibrivsk” District of the Dnipropetrov region for causing damage to the State. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney-General on the events surrounding the closed stockholders' association “The Football Club “Dinamo” of the Kiev”. [[BABURIN, CHICHANOV, ALEXIEVE, AND OTHERS]] Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Attorney General concerning violations of legislation by individual officials of the regional tax authorities of the Hersonian region. LUKYANENKA to the Secretary of State of Ukraine for the activities of the Coordinating Council with the President of Ukraine on social and legal protection of military personnel. Ms. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Politics regarding the situation in the village of Ravne Novokrajina. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the shortcomings in the Ministry’s work on the healing of sleepers. Mr Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Minister of Industrial Policy, Minister of Agriculture Policy, on the implementation of the sanctions of the Orikh Open Shareholder Society, Orsilmash. LUKYANENKA’S left to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the unsatisfying state of pensions of citizens who are victims of political repression in Ukraine. VITALIA OLUYKA to the Ministry of Finance regarding the financing of housing for disabled persons. Viacheslav ANISIMOVA to the Ministry of Internal Affairs regarding the failure of the authorities of the Belgian District Department of the Dniprodj yin administration to carry out their internal duties. GREGORY BONDARENCA to the Ministry of Culture on the inclusion of the National League of Ukrainian Composers in the list of government-funded objects. Mr. Leonida SERGEANT to the Minister of Education and Science regarding the scientific internship of the citizen of Orikhov Vladimir BRONNIKOVA to the Minister of Defence on the gravity of the execution of the judgement and the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. Eugene KYRILČUKA to the Ministry of Transport and Liaison regarding the restoration of the work of the Kivertske Mechanic Plant in the Volinsk Region and the subordination of its “Straightways”. GEORGIA PONOMARENKA to the Ministry of Finance on the legality of the removal of funds from the budget of the Gavril Rural Council of the High Town District of Kiev. Igor ŠURMI to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the cause of non-remuneration to persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster under the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. PAUL YETCHANA to the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding the illegal construction of a gas condensate plant in the town of Gádác Poltavsk. Michael DOBKIN to the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the State Treasury, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Family Affairs, and young people in connection with the financing of food in the schools and preschools of the Comintern district of Kharkiv. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the violation of the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Military Workers. Anatholic of RACHANS to the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the failure of the Ministry of the Cabinet of Ministers to deliver a computer complex for the Stolbow School of Education of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vitalia OLUYKA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for the Financing of State Acts on Private Land Rights in the Isiaslav Region of Hmelnitsk Region. To the Minister of Agriculture’s policy regarding the mechanism for partial compensation for the value of the mineral goods of domestic production. Mr. Alexander PECLUŠENKA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy on the Problems of Organizing the Spring and Field Work in 2005. Groups of National Deputies to the Minister of Justice for the purpose of clarifying the possibility of the “delegation” of Melnicka by the People's Deputy by decision of the European Court of Human Rights. [[MAZURENKO, BORZOV, SHURMA]] Eugene KYRILČUKA to the minister of internal affairs on the gravity and unfair distribution of housing to the employees of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Volin region. Igor KALICKEN to the Minister of Agriculture's policy on the critical situation in the vineyard's agro-industrial complex during the spring-field work period. Paul KACHAURA to the minister of finance for the examination of the misappropriation of funds, the abuse of the service to build the mother’s private residence as the former minister of the interior of Bilocon. Leonida KADENJUKA to the Minister of Transport and the link between the extension of the road to the Sokirian station “Kamiyanec Podilski-Larga”. Váchaslav KOVALJA to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, regarding the appointment of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Hersonian region. Mr. Alexander CERNOVOLEN — Minister of Health, Minister of Internal Affairs — to examine the facts of the illegal beatings of patients at the Herson County Hospital through the Yurchenka Foundation. Gennady ASTROV-SUMILOVA to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, the Attorney-General, for the provision of coal for the construction of pensioners and former mine workers who are in a state of liquidation. Andrija POLIETA to the Minister of Health for assisting the inhabitants of Kirovograd in receiving insurance payments for work under underground conditions. Bogdan Kostinjuk to the minister of health for the restoration of the work of the hospital’s hospital headquarters in the village of Kasputnica in the district of Lipovodlin in the district of Suma. Mr Vladimir Lještenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the investigation of a criminal case involving a traffic accident that took place in the village of Sosnica Chernigiv district. Leonidas KADENJUKA to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the simplified regime of crossing the Ukrainian-Moldov border by residents of the Cherniewec Region from Sokiriana station to the Černivci station. Stanislawa PCHIDENKA to the Ministry of Health regarding the provision of a magnetic resonance tomograph to the Volin County Clinic. To the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Prevention of Repetitive Repetitive Personnel Policy of the former Ministry of Internal Affairs. Jury KARMAZIN to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, the Attorney-General, on the verification of the State's authority, the threat to Ukraine's national security due to the systematic violation of the constitutional rights of citizens, the abuse of office by individual officials of the Simferopol District State Administration of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikoli Shershun and Valerija Samoplavski to the State Customs Office to prevent the customs processing of goods at low cost by misappropriating them under other codes. Igora TARASJUKA to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the payment of monetary compensation to victims in a car accident in Germany. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Security Service for the Abuse of the Service and Corruption of the Authorities of the Vinick region. [[CHILD, ASKIRCO, SKOMAROVSKI]] Oleg BILORUS to the Head of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the violation of the rights of the labour community with limited responsibility for the “Versenjna” Ltd. Production and Trade Company” during the use of the main consumer's technological electricity networks and the conclusion of electricity supply contracts. Larissa POLACO to the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration for the implementation of the capital repair of the district clinical preventive treatment facility “Ftyziatria”. Sergey CHELNOKOVA to the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, Head of the State Inspectorate for Price Control for Electricity Tariffs for Consumers of the Open Association of Kyivoblanergo. Victor PINCHUKA to the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Authority for the creation of adequate housing conditions for the inhabitants of the Yellow Housing Massive “Chaple” Dnipropetrovska District. Gennady RUDENKA to the Head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the improper sanitary status of the territory and infrastructure of the Osocorca tax and tax array of the Darnitsky administrative district of Kiev. LUKYANENKA’S lion to the Head of the Kiev City State Administration for the cessation of violations of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding language in an outside advertisement on the street of Bogdan Hmeljnickéh city of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Herson District Administration, Prosecutor of the Hersson Region for the delay in implementing the decision of the Hersson District Council on the establishment of the “Hersono-blformation” regional communal pharmaceutical company. [[COWLEY, COWL, MILK, AND OTHERS. Total 9 deputies]] Alexia YAROSLAVSKI to the Head of the State Committee on Forestry for violations of the legitimate first-time users of hunting grounds in the Kharkiv region. Mikoli KULČINSKI to the Head of the Security Service for Fraud Methods of Seizure of the collective enterprise Poltavska Masirbasa, the director of the Polish Fishery Commercial Society, and the absence of an objective investigation by the relevant judicial and law enforcement structures of the Poltava region. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Herson District State Administration for the appointment of new heads of the Humanitarian Offices of the District State Administration. [[BILORUS, BLACKWILL, COST, AND OTHERS. Total 6 deputies]] MICHAYLA VOLINZA to the Head of the Supreme Court on the examination of the complaint of the Third Information Court. Alexia BABURIN to the Supreme Court on the irresponsible attitude of individual members of the Civil Court toward their duties. TO THE city head of Kiev for the destruction of the historical natural monument — the festivities of Honchari - Kojumjaki in Kiev. VICTOR OF THE DIVORCE TO THE JITOMY MEN’S HEAD FOR THE APPROACH TO THE END OF THE REFERENCE OF THE PRE-school INSTITUTIONS. Jaroslav SUCHI to the director of the state-owned nuclear power plant Chernobyl on potential abuses by officials and the management of the state-owned nuclear power plant Chernobyl in the course of purchases of goods, jobs and services at the expense of international technical assistance. ZARI KATUSHI to the Director-General of the Open Shareholders Association “Krimenergo” on the energy supply of the inhabitants of the Stone Massive city of Simferopol. Ernesta GALIJEVA to the Director-General of the Kharkivlis State Forestry Association for the worsening of the situation in the Kharkiv region. Igor YUCHNOVSKI to the Director of the National Nuclear Power Plant, on the provision of information on the conduct of the management of the state-owned nuclear power plant, on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of the budget. Igor ŠURMI to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures of prosecutorial response regarding the execution of the decision of the Borsztev District Court of the Ternopil Region on the collection of debt from the WAT "Ustianski" civil society of Timki Maria Mikolayovni and her family. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of continuous heat in the city of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk. Ally ALEXANDROVSKI to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure payment of the debt on salary to employees of the Kharkiv State Enterprise Malishev. Valentina Seminyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate response of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime to the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the privatisation issue of the situation surrounding the Kosovo Children's Camp of Kerch. Mikhail KOSIVA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine asked the Ukrainian Association of Fishermen about the need to create a favourable investment climate in Ukraine’s fish market. Jaroslav KENDZYOR to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the need to intervene in the detailed examination of the court decision on Antonik Ruslan Jaroslavovich. THE Battle of Jury to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tomenka, for bringing the celebration of the religious and folk festival of Olives into line with the church calendar. Yurya BOJKA to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Tomenka on the international celebration of 300 years after the birth of the founder of the Ukrainian-Georgian friendship, David Guramishvili, who lived and wrote the outstanding work "Davitiani" in Mirgorod in Poland. Thus, honourable national deputies, 141 MPs have been asked. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 29, Communists - 37, "Regions of Ukraine" - 9, SDPU - 12, "One Ukraine" - 5, "Deminiciates" - 4, People's Democratic Party, "Republic" - 2, People's Party - 8, SPU - 8, Block Timoshenko - 11, Group "Soyuz" - 3, "Will of the People" - 1, "Democratic Ukraine" - 6, "Postfraction" - 6. Now. Oh, come on.? We missed one query, let's see. Dear colleagues, I have missed one request to the President of Ukraine, Oleg TJAGNIBOK, for the publication of lists of KGB agents of the Soviet Union who are or have been in state offices in Ukraine. I would like to vote in favour of this request. [[10:36:26]] For-146 Request not supported. Dear colleagues, one clarification. If you haven't heard, please have your attention. A request from Oleg Tuggnibok to the President of Ukraine for the publication of lists of U.S.S.S.S.C.A. agents who are or were in government positions in Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:37:13]] For 282 That's not all, dear colleagues. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:34]] For-286 Request supported. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 82, communists - 54, Ukrainian regions - 22, People's Party - 15, SPU - 22, SDPU - 18, One Ukraine - 16, Block Timoshenko - 18, Democratic Ukraine - 6, Will of the People - 6, Democratic Initiatives - 1 Union - 2, Center - 6, NDP, Republic - 2, non-fractional - 16. Dear colleagues, I have made a request to Victor Turmanov for the Head of the Supreme Council. Victor Turmanov asks that this request be made to Prime Minister Timoshenko of Ukraine. I ask the secretariat to prepare the necessary materials more carefully. Dear colleagues! We spent forty minutes announcing parliamentary inquiries. Are we going to continue with the performances yet, because time is running out? I understand. I'm just asking because we're out of time. So we're doing 30 shows. Please, that table is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Basil Calinchuk, faction of the People's Party. Prepare Igor Sharov. Kalinczuk gives the right to speak to Oleg Zarubinski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear journalists! Among the many problems of the foreign policy of today’s Ukraine is one idea that has both historical and, in fact, centuries - old nature. It has long been known as the route from the swamps to Greece, not only as a kind of means of transport between the Baltic and Black Sea countries, but also as an important factor in the various connections and connections between the peoples of the two pools for joint action, especially of an external trade and humanitarian nature. Like any project, he had different dynamics, but every time he resurfaced the plans of the statesmen, on the one hand, including, by the way, Bogdan Hmelnick. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, for the first time in public about the need for Baltic-Black Sea cooperation for the active participation of Ukraine, the then President of Lithuania, Algirdas Brazauscas, spoke seriously at a summit of countries in the region in Vilnius in 1997. And a meeting under the slogan of the Baltic Sea Cooperation to an integrated Europe of the 21st century is inseparable. was held in Yalta in 1999, and the result of this meeting was that the development and integration processes in the Balto-Black Sea Basin correspond to the interests of all countries that refer to this pool. Unfortunately, we have to say with some surprise that so widely stated perspectives and positive trends in 99th year, in this regard, the intentions have collapsed in the same year. The half - official sentence, which came later, was no less firm than the declaration of a meeting. I quote: "the formalization and institutionalization of the marked sub-regional cooperation at the present stage is not in the order of the day. On the other hand, you and I have a great understanding that economic, first and foremost, is an economic heart idea. the transport component. In February of last year, combined with Belarus and Lithuania in the framework of the international transport corridor number nine, a combined Viking combined transport project was launched along the Illichevsk route. Not so recently last year, at the end of September, a steam line was activated between Ukraine and Turkey, and it opens the prospect of connecting with the Klaipede-Ilicievsk line. This means that trains from Central Europe and Scandinavia can reach railway platforms all the way to Turkey, avoiding lines in front of the Bosphorus Bridges. I realize that I don't have much time to argue this idea and this problem that exists. But I'd like to say. It is clear that Ukraine’s foreign policy today should not be limited to the East - West axis or the West - East axis. The coordinates are different, to become North - South, South - North, for the interests of Ukraine, above all economic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u3	Please, Sharov passes the word Bondarenko to Georgia. Getting ready is Alexey's.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u4	George Bondarenko, Democratic Ukraine. Dear colleagues, last Saturday, I was at a news conference of one of the civil Chernobyl organizations in Kiev. The structure of this union is made up of former AES workers, people who opposed nuclear horror. Heard from professionals, it causes them to shudder and testify: Chernobyl is still ahead. I spoke on several occasions from this rostrum about the menacing nature of Chernobyl’s problems, making appropriate suggestions, and addressing the former President, the Prime Minister. The result is insignificant. So I sent a parliamentary address to the new leaders of the state, and more than that, I tried to communicate with them. I'll be honest, it's not an optimistic feeling. And I want to talk not about Chernobyl, but about how today's leaders are doing. Victor Yushchenka was sent a parliamentary address right after the inauguration, the next day, and I was afraid to be late. But the new president, like the previous one, did not read it. As in the past, President Alexander Zinchenko, the head of the Office, now called the Secretary of State, decided on the fate of the address. He sent it to the Prime Minister. Julia Volodymyrna was addressing the minister. And the problems are not yet within the competence of the new minister. To tell the MP that's a resolution. But it's been more than a month, and there's no answer. All of these actions are not so much a red tape. This is a much greater danger, a substitute for removing the President from specific cases, with violations of legislation. As soon as it's over, we've seen it and we know it. And that, Your Honor, is not all. Having felt contempt for the MP's address, my colleague Anatoly Rahanski and I decided to meet some government officials face-to-face. Here's what came out of this. With Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko, the conversation took place on the third day of the weekend. You could say more or less normal. Only the enrollment of David Zhuaniah’s direct ministurist David Zhuaniah was possible. It's been three weeks, no goo-goo. The same record with the Prime Minister did not give anything. I want to end up being nice. Finance Minister Victor Pinzenic accepted without a previous record, and the main interested person was in the conversation. This is not about solving specific matters, but it is about hearing first and foremost about how to deal with the matter. I want to say with a sports tongue: 2:3 is not for the benefit of the leaders of the state. I'd like to address the leaders, what they said on Maidan, support, decide, meet. Promises, they should be specific in favor of our cause. Please watch my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u5	Mishur gives the word to Alexei. He will be followed by the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u6	Igor Alekseyev, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, we, the Communists, have never concealed our attitude towards the former President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchme, as a person, a public figure. They have always opposed any guarantee of his impunity. We have made it clear that, with regard to Leonid Kuchma's responsibility to the people and the State for the crime committed during his regime, there can be no two opinions. Leonid Kuchma and those who directly, whether the Government, the President's Administration or on the ground, carried out his policies by carrying out activities incompatible with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine must comply with the strictness of the law. As our party leader Peter Simonenko has repeatedly stated, the Attorney-General's Office is obliged to bring criminal proceedings against a Kuchma citizen on the facts of his crimes while serving as President of Ukraine and subject to the articles on treason. How else can it be described that crime and corruption, arms trafficking and drug trafficking, trafficking in women, children have become whole sectors of the shadow business under the patronage of the Kuchma regime? How else can it be qualified that the economic and military power of the country has been destroyed during these years, and Ukraine has become a commodity of Europe, where the cheap labour force of our compatriots is a commodity? How else can it be qualified that the assassinations of unfavorable politicians, public figures and journalists have become the norm? How else can it be qualified that there is an epidemic of tuberculosis and AIDS in Ukraine, millions of people are on the verge of physical survival? In connection with the mysterious death today of the former Minister of the Interior, Yuri Kravchenko, we request the Attorney-General to take into custody the chief criminal policy figure of the past ten years in Ukraine, Leonida Kuchmu. Against this background, the question of the legality or irregularity of the State security of Kuchma does not stand for eggs eaten. There is a need to distinguish between two aspects: legal and moral. From a legal point of view, the Cabinet of Ministers had no grounds for dealing with public money and property by providing a boarding house for Kuchme. Those who have taken such a decision must be held accountable and in accordance with the law. From a moral point of view, Leonid Kuchma, as a multibillion dollar holder, including the state of his family's criminally-acquired family, had to publicly renounce all State security, apologize to the people and hand over looted money and real estate, for example, to children's homes, nursing homes, hospitals, hospitals and veterans, who were so few today before the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u7	The word is Oliynik, and he's got to get ready for Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. To me, too, is addressed a whole stack of letters, which now refer to a new edition of part of article 43 of the Ukrainian Law, which is proposed by the Cabinet, "For the Pension Insurance of Military Servants", the persons in charge and the regular composition of internal affairs and some others, and it shows that there is a limitation on the size of the additional types of financial security provided by military personnel when calculating, recalculating pensions by threefold the amount of basic types of financial security, as well as on the related conversion to the reduction of assigned pensions, and a new edition of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, which will limit the amount of exodus assistance to military personnel. From a legal point of view, such measures contravene article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, lead to a mass appeal to the courts of all levels in relation to the reduction of already assigned pensions, significantly reduces the size of assigned pensions compared to government officials, judges, prosecutors and contravenes article 24 of the Constitution on the equality of citizens' rights. Dear colleagues, well, at least in the 60s, we would have done everything we could, on the contrary, added to these holy people, rather than sailing their banners, under which they went to victory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u9	The word has a national deputy, Tegnibok, followed by Alexandrovska, passes the word to Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u10	Oleg Tuggnibok, head of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, please don't confuse with the Hebish clone. Dear colleagues, today in the watchtowers, everyone must have been talking about the mysterious death of former Interior Minister General Kravchenk. Whether it was suicide, or whether it helped him die, but in any case it was a mistake, a huge mistake by Attorney General Piscoon. How can you be so unprofessional, so unprofessional, or so unprofessionally done, or it was a preposterous idea to blow the whole world apart, that today Kravchenko is being summoned for questioning. In doing so, encourage him to take the appropriate step, either by Kravchenk or by those who killed him. And because of that, I have a request and an appeal to the President of Ukraine, first of all, we need to get the Attorney General to resign immediately, because what he's doing is only to the detriment of the general case. The people expect to see something quite different today. The second point that has already been discussed today is that if we want real concrete changes, we need to arrest all those who were involved in the killings, the criminal political crimes that were involved in the fraud and counterfeiting of the last election. And the first must be arrested and arrested by President Kuchma. These steps must be taken immediately, for what happened to Kirpa, what happened to Kravchenk, will continue. And we understand that very well. Next, I demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately put in order of the day and listen to the results, a report from the Temporary Commission led by Gregory Omelchenko. Because the lengthening of the matter likewise results in disastrous consequences. I want us, friends, to understand the situation that has now taken place in the state. You can't expect it. It takes speed and determination not just to live up to its promises, but to isolate quickly and decisively all the criminals who have led the state to that state for 14 years, and it is necessary to give a certain response both on the part of Parliament and on the part of the President of Ukraine. And in the meantime, I wanted to focus on one topic. I'm calling the Secretary of State and the State Secretariat. The situation surrounding the Dnipro Hotel is state property. This property was transferred to the commercial structure under the Russian influence of the Dniproelite. And today our government property, our earnings go not in the Ukrainian pocket, not in the government pocket. More than that, there was little that the hotel’s manager had been released, but he was assigned to be such a benefactor as Luganova, who was released from that position in 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u11	Please have the floor of the National MP Novak. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u12	Vladimir Novak, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear colleagues, with great concern, I would like to address the Cabinet of Ministers, the President of Ukraine on a more faithful basis, the unwillingness of Ukraine's agriculture to work in the field. During the time of independence, the spring to Ukraine was unexpected for each of our former 12 governments. It seems that just like previous governments, the new government did not wait for spring. Spring and field work today is under threat of collapse. Government measures for the supply of mineral fertilizers, fuel, and credit on the part of the government, which are so widely advertised in the press and on television, are not being implemented. NPK Galicina and Watt Naftohimik The affidavits refuse to execute the 11.02 treaty. 2005 on the harmonization of actions between agricultural producers and domestic oil companies for the supply of the village between February and May 2005 of diesel fuel at stable prices of 2 000 400 dollars per tonne. In the month that has passed, no tons of fuel have been released at this price. The monthly financing of payments to rural producers for their misrepresentation of large cattle cattle and pig conditioners is not being carried out, and these costs could today go into defense. For the purchase of fuel for the sower and here the government is already a new democratic, as he likes to call itself, again deceiving the peasant. And one more thing. On January 15, 2005, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was signed between the agricultural producer and the banks on lending interest rates of not more than 17 percent of the year. But no bank is implementing this memorandum, referring to the Kabmin ruling signed by Azarov by 21 percent. No bank lends a loan below 17 percent in Hmělničina. Madam Prime Minister! You said at the highest level that all these problems had been solved. As you can see, none of them are solved. A village that has been paved by the Bushian agrarian reforms, which, among other things, have been directly involved, and some of those who hold high posts in your government today are awaiting deliverance. We've got to sow. Time's not waiting. We Communists are talking to the government, finish sharing the portfolios! Turn your face back to the peasant you promised so much in the election! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u13	Vernigore conveys the word of Frost. Follow him. He's giving it to Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! The socialists demand a public report from the head of the Commission, led by Gregory Omelchenko, a commission investigating the resonance issues, in order to see publicly what has already been revealed by these deputies. We can't go any further, we can't go any further, because the example that Communist Alexeyev and Oleg Taggedbok were talking about today tells us that we're going to stay in this situation at all, when we can't investigate the case and bring it to an end. You know that earlier the proposals for the report of this commission had been blocked by the President himself. But to our duty, it is our honor to hear this report now, so that the public court will give an assessment of everything that was in Ukraine so that it will never happen again. Remember, since September 2000, people have been stamped with protests, frozen in tents, at demonstrations, at rallies. Soon it will be the fourth anniversary of the 2001 bloody events of March 9, which was the sum total of the work in this sense of criminal authority. We've achieved the displacement of this regime. Now the question that people are waiting for is, who was the buyer of the crime against Gongada and other people who were the organizers? George's death in a public court must be the responsibility of all those who lied from here, from the Supreme Council's rostrum, that Georgia killed thugs for debts, that the remnants in Tarosha are unknown to them that Gongadze went to the Czech Republic, that the records of criminal conversations in the President's office are Gongadze and so on. The answer must be answered in court, for if there is no trial, self - justice will be created, and there will be no witness, no witness, no one who has given the commission to these witnesses. I urge you to do this to us in the next sessional week, and in the end, to show that the person of Parliament who stands, after all, stands for the truth, stands for the law. I'm convinced that all of this happened because the authorities were, the system of power was authoritarian. And so that no one would even bother to go back to the question of reviewing the changes to the Constitution. It is I who remind you in advance that the democratic system is a guarantee against the crimes that have been committed in.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u15	Please, instead of Bondarenko? Boki, get ready for Roswadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u16	Thank you. Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The village of Ukraine came into the spring with anxieties and hopes. With concern, because the previous regime has led him essentially to bankruptcy, and with hopes, because today's failure is taking action to fill the agricultural sector with financial, material resources. Yet, the increase in fertilizers, the limitation of credit resources, and the weariness of technology have created difficulties that will have to be overcome by superhuman efforts. Under these conditions, the socialist party of Ukraine, as part of the new governing coalition, considers it necessary to propose a number of additional measures to ensure that the production of grain and technical crops increases, corrects the financial situation in the countryside. First of all, the government's measures to fill the village with credit resources and repay 10% of the loans by the state. We think it's necessary for the National Bank to lower the mortgage from 2.5 to 1.5. The need for long-term loans with State compensation is urgent, at least within the percentages currently foreseen. The Socialist faction believes that there is a need to regulate the implementation of collateral transactions with grain. According to article 47 of the Ukrainian Grains and Market Act, the deadline for the repurchase of grain by its manufacturers is now over. Today, there is a low price in the grain market, the village does not have sufficient circulation costs, and spring also requires them for field work and fertilizer. Thus, a farmer may lose the funds he was to receive from the 2004 crop. We propose today, I repeat, today's legislative deadline for the purchase of grain from a government agent by manufacturers, April 1. Minority politicians need to verify the use of budgetary resources by a government agent, make proposals for such transactions with new crop grains with a clear and prior definition of minimum prices in crop cuts. The rural situation calls for effective government action to save thousands of farmers and businesses from bankruptcy who cannot pay off their loans and take new ones. The Socialist faction believes that we need to go to recredit the loans paid so that the peasant does not get hit. Viewing the honor of the new authorities as a priority for the development of the village as a nation’s policy, socialists are confident that the proposed measures will be supported by both the villagers and the entire Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u17	The word is given to the national deputy of Razwadowski. Peter will follow him instead of Kadenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The "One Ukraine" faction expresses its deep concern over the statements made by the Minister of Interior of Ukraine about the need to eliminate the state car inspection. According to official statistics in 2004, there were 45 000,593 road traffic accidents in Ukraine, which killed 6,000,966 and injured 53,638 people. The number of road accidents increased by 7.5 per cent compared to the same period in 2003 and the number of injured persons by 13. These alarming numbers, which tend to increase, strongly indicate the need for increased attention to road transport by the State. And the elimination of DAI is certainly not going to contribute to reducing road accidents on Ukrainian roads. Indeed, the structure of the car inspection and the authority of its employees need to be reformed. Obviously, such a component of the inspector’s work should be strengthened. How to help drivers and prevent and prevent accidents. But we insist on the need for a very careful approach to such reform. Because the quality of the work of DAI depends on the level of road safety, the detection of crime in transport, and thus thousands of human lives. Let's be honest. In many cases, DAI’s coworkers have managed to avoid a further increase in accidents. It is the faction of the "One Ukraine" party that strongly denies the elimination of the DAI stationary points, because these points are without exaggerating the safety islands on the road where the driver can always get help and rest. In addition, the article of the seventh Ukrainian Police Act clearly states that the State Automobile Inspection is an integral part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Thus, not just liquidation, but a simple change in the name DAI should only take place by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine through the adoption of appropriate legislative acts. The faction of the "One Ukraine" party is confident that Ukraine will have a decent place in Europe. But the necessary condition is not only to improve the standard of living of our citizens, but also to ensure that law enforcement agencies work in line with European standards. Therefore, the faction of the "One Ukraine" party calls on the government of Ukraine and the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine to focus on reforming the internal affairs bodies, primarily on improving the level of security on Ukrainian roads and protecting the interests of all without the exception of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u19	Please, Petrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I have the privilege of speaking from the highest rostrum of our country. For this, I am immensely grateful to the people, my constituents, who have supported me twice in 211 constituencies in Montenegro. Until now, I have never, I have stressed, in two terms, criticized a fellow Ukrainian national MP. They were also supported by the electorate. However, some in attendance do not use law and morals, allowing themselves to be deceived by lying slanders. In particular, he did so on the first February at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Lechchenko. In line with the numerous insistence of my constituents, I am forced to answer to this talk. First of all, I quote, "The partial privatization of the Romanian-Zadunai estate by me." In fact, there is a historical monument in Chernigovishte in the village of Viszko Korobsky, but not property, but the Rumiantsev-Zadunajsky Palace, built in 1782. From my initiative, he, as well as the Sperm Church, at the same time built next door, was placed in the register of architectural monuments, which is why they are protected by the State and are not subject to privatization. The palace needs serious investment, for during its existence it has experienced many things: there was a stable, and there was a boarding house for people with mental disorders. And the "Friendship" dormitory didn't use it at all. [[was at the Autodora, who has recently rented a palace.]] This finally won him over. On February 1, 2000, again and again, my initiative created a health education center. It has healed some 7,000 children affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Last year, there was a medical program there for the first time. Does it make it worse for children to rest and have five meals? The other one. I quote, "To privatize forest arrays around the palace." Regrettably, there has been no forest range around the village. Some have tried, such as the director of the local woodland of Malts, who illegally cut down nearly one and a half hundred hundred oaks in the Korob. He was helped by the former head of the local court, Nikolainko, to avoid punishment for this crime. It is if you, colleagues, remember that twice was not supported here in the Supreme Council. What an interesting coincidence. It was the people's deputy Lechchenko who was most active in protecting this grief judge. So I'm not going to spend a lot of our time on things. Thank you for your attention. And then the court will put everything in its place.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u21	Yes, honourable colleagues, in view of the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request, have the floor of the national deputy Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u22	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! At my previous colleague's speech, I should point out that as a national deputy of Ukraine, he never meets with his voters who have huge claims to him. And what he just said is against him. In agriculture, training is being completed, and practically, field work is already under way. In view of the deep crisis in the vast majority of farms, the cost is high. Of course, both the Supreme Council and the government are taking action. One of them, for example, was that last year partially compensated for the costs of agricultural crops and crops. Sadly, though, these funds were not available for the current accounts of many businesses. The villagers are outraged by the state’s repeated deception. Counting on the state’s money to come, they spent their meager expenses on other domestic purposes because the hole was sufficient. Now we find ourselves at the beginning of the spring-field work near the broken trough. From this point of view, I asked the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for official information on the state of implementation of this budget law in this part, and also the Government's efforts to finance it in the costs I was talking about. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach’s reply came with a general information from the Ministry of Finance. I learned from it that partial compensation for the costs of agricultural enterprises from the soaring of bright and ostrich crops in the past year is aimed at assimilation of 348.6 million dollars. In fact, the cost was paid by the producers of 247,9 million dollars, or 71 percent of the amounts allocated. And in Montenegro, out of 20.2 million dollars in farm accounts, only 7.3 million dollars, or 36 percent, were paid. There is no explanation for this state of funding for the selected program in the information. And the government's efforts to provide full funding and partial compensation for the costs of seedlings are not mentioned at all. Minfin's information only refers to the fact that this compensation is possible only if the corresponding expenditure is implemented in the Ukrainian State Budget 2005 Act. So who's going to do it? I refer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyrovna Timoshenko: if you intend to restore agricultural production, you will ensure that the above mentioned costs are included in the Ukrainian State Budget for the current year for which you are preparing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u23	Yes, please, Oleg Belarus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u24	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In these days the anniversary of the early death of our colleague, a friend, an outstanding national deputy, was fulfilled in politics by scholar Michael Antonovich Pavlovsky. A memorial, memorial, committee of Mikhailo Antonovich, a faction of Yulia Timoshenko, a national deputy, is taking part. A memorial book entitled “Memory of Michael Antonovich ” was published. The foundation of the Pavlovsky Memorial Name was created. There's a board at the Technical University. The name of the school in Hmelnick is the name of one of the streets in Kiev named Mikhail Pavlovski. His premature death was always premature, if not premature. I ask you to remember Mikhail Antonovich for a moment of silence. Thank you. Mikhailo Antonovich has come a long way for such volcanic energy, a great intellectual potential. His life is an interrupted flight. And he left behind an inheritance that would be developed and used in our country for years. He summed up in himself an outstanding scholar of theoretical mechanics and economists. Thank you for your attention. May his memory last forever.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u25	Yes, Your Honor, we've exhausted all of those possibilities, even the ones we've had in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the Declaration of Requests, the speeches of the National Deputies. The two factions -- the Social Democratic Party and the "Regions of Ukraine" -- are asking for a 30-minute recess. [[united]] Who will speak from you? You will? Yes, please, the Kings.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u26	Dear friends! Today, a lot of people are talking about democracy, and I have been told that it is necessary to bring the Attorney-General to justice for starting the political process. The political process - I never thought there would be a time when the criminals and enemies of the people would be called from the television screen. And we need to understand that this isn't the Attorney General's office, we all understand who started this, and how it was, we saw it all. And today's event - today's death of Yuri Kravchenko - is a clear indication of what cannot be done. I want to say about my friend Nestor Schuffrich, because today he's continuing, he hasn't hidden his point of view, he's defending it civilizedly, as in a democratic country, but today he's being pursued by his relatives and that. [[You know, he was the confidant of Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic.]] It's not very democratic. Now I want to say a few more words. Last night my apartment was opened up, my diplomat was discovered, nothing was lost, the diplomat was left with money - the money was left behind, I recalculated. I can't blame anyone, I can't hold anyone's hand. But I want to say that if there are any questions about me, I have not hidden my position with the former President or with today. Come, ask, I will answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u27	Another announcement, please listen. Pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2. I am informing the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Abdulin Alexander Rafatovich into the membership of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Within hours, the faction grows. Let's move on to our agenda. Dear colleagues! Please mobilize, we need to put in the agenda and make a decision today on the draft law amending Ukraine's customs tariff. [[Registration number 7114]] Please vote. [[11:19:15]] For 215 The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 60, the Communists are 0, the Ukraine is 24, the People's Party is 27, the Socialists are 20, the Social Democratic Party is 0, the One Ukraine parties are 16, the Timoshenko Block is 18, the Democratic Ukraine is 6, the will of the people is 8, the Democratic Initiative is 10, the Union is 6, the Center is 7, the NDP is Republic is 7, the Non-Frakational is 6. [[united]] Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[11:20:09]] For-286 Questions on the agenda are included. This is how we approach his consideration. Sorry, we're back. Who is in charge of including in the agenda the bill amending the customs tariff of Ukraine, registration number 7114? I'd like to make a statement. [[11:20:47]] For 287 Including the daytime schedule. So we're going to look at it now. Unfortunately, the Committee did not offer us a regulation. Let's do it this way: the reporter -- five minutes, answers to questions -- five minutes, a co-reporter from the committee -- five minutes, answers to questions -- three minutes. And for about 20 to 21 minutes, we're talking. Is there no objection? Yes, please give the floor to the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Mr. Teriochin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honourable National Deputies, Your Honor. In the context of anti-trafficking, the Government has drafted a bill that foresees a substantial reduction and elimination of excessive differentiation of import duties. Such a decision is due to the fact that today, in the customs tariff of Ukraine, goods and products imported into customs territory are subject to specific import duty rates at a virtually prohibited level. In addition, uniform goods with significant differentials allowing individual entities and customs authorities to abuse the classification of goods, lower their customs value, and avoid paying taxes in full. The bill provides for reduced import duty rates, full rates to the level of the premiums, and replacement of specific and combined rates to the specific and combined rates. I'm not going to count all the positions, you've had the opportunity to get acquainted with the table. I can tell you that all the goods, all the goods, are reflected in this project. It is envisaged to set import duty rates at the 2003-2005 level in line with Ukraine's consolidated tariff proposal, which was approved at the Customs and Tariff Board meeting. [[Protocol No. 58]] Each sub-category covered by the consolidated tariff offer was previously handled by the Departments of Commerce and Industry, harmonized with the enterprises and approved in writing. I could add a few digits from myself so that I wouldn't delay the presentation of this law. In 2004, the total imports into Ukraine amounted to about 150 billion dollars. Free trade is about 60 billion where taxes are not collected. There's a sum of 90 billion dollars in the hardware mode. If all the tariff rates that are in place today were to be in effect, we would have to raise about 12 billion dollars of taxes. We've got six. The difference of 6 billion remained in the pockets. The new law sets rates in such a way that when supplies are legalized, the budget will receive an increase of 3 billion dollars, even if it is calculated to remove the goods from the shadow by 50 percent. It will, paradoxically, actually protect the national manufacturer. One more. When the government started to order customs and started doing a hundred percent review of customs goods that came to be cleared, it turns out that after container transport, once again, I want to repeat the average cost of one container, of one container of taxes that were to be paid, with the goods of the house, would be about 12,000 dollars against 1-2 thousand dollars that are being paid legally. Of course, no one wants to get away with such bets right now, because it's economically meaningless, once. And second, this leads to a sharp rise in consumer prices. If you take the container again, I want to repeat, with electrical technology on average today you should pay at current rates of up to 100 to 120,000 bracelets from one container. Before that, they paid 10 or 20 thousand, or ten times less. We're proposing to set up 2.5 times smaller rates, which is roughly four times more taxes, compared to the real payout that went into the budget, under closed gray schemes. Thus, the government demands a decision to uphold this law. This law is just the first tray. We're going to propose to consider changing the first to twenty-fourth group in the second tranche. Then there's no engineering and no electrical engineering. That's the third one. And the fourth is all the other bets. So that we can make smart economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u29	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up, five minutes. Hunger, behind him, Chevchuk. Is there no hunger? Please, your microphone is on. Hunger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u30	I have a question for the next order. There are these calculations, how many products have been imported before these rates, and how much will we get? And the need for the country as a whole, how much do we need? And the second. Why pick up what Ukraine is doing? I believe that we voted for wine only for 10 years that the wine producers raised their production, and with one zero bet with Georgia we destroyed everything. It's the same thing now. I believe that this bill cannot be voted on and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u31	Well, your question already had the answer to your question. I'm telling you again, I'm sure they heard me. 150 billion have been imported. I.E.L.D., 150 billion. That's right. That's about 30 billion. That's what I'm talking about. Of these, about half of the customs fees went into the grey scheme or smuggling on account of the fact that the rates that are in place today are prohibitive. They cannot pay because there is no economic value to their payment. Please tell me, if we put, let's say, not 50 percent on electrical engineering, but 10 percent on negotiable taxes, on VAT, that's plus 16.7 percent. I mean, roughly speaking, it's going to be a national manufacturer with a walrus of 16.7 percent. Is that not a protection? This is a normal protection that can be administered normally and cannot lead to smuggling. So that's the ideology of this whole law.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u32	Please, Sergey Shevchuk, follow him Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, it is known that changing customs officials or adopting or not adopting any law should not undermine the stability that has long been on Ukraine’s borders. I want to tell you what my constituents told me, that on the border of Volina and the Lyublin Voivodship on that side of the border, a five-mile-long queue was formed. Some drivers live in the courtyards of rural residents of the Republic of Poland for up to three weeks simply because there is no order on the border. The Polish government, humanitarian organizations are already opening up field kitchens for Ukrainian drivers. Please tell me, when will this disgraceful period of power end? When we are ashamed of what is done on Ukrainian borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u34	Thank you. That's a very good question. There are two reasons for this situation that has arisen on the borders. The first is open sabotage of the customs authorities for two weeks. This can be said openly. I mean, let me give you an example. Suppose, on some customs crossings, the customs service worked 24 hours a day. We made a deal with banks that accept payments again for day - to - day work. So the decision of the customs officials is to make this decision, and I'm sorry that from 9 o'clock to 8 o'clock they're working, then they're going to go get some rest, even though this is, you know, their special status. And if you want to clean up at night, pay up, but not into the State Budget. Another reason why such problems are on the borders? When a 100 percent review of the customs value of goods started, it turns out there's no point in importing them into Ukraine, because there's so much to pay for tariffs that there's no point in bringing them in. That's why we're talking to you, so we can get the clots out of customs. We don't get, we lose $60-80 million in customs payments every day. In order to correct this, tariffs need to be reduced to an economically acceptable level, on the one hand, without setting zeros in order to protect the interests of the national manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u35	Please, Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u36	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to my colleague Lechchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u37	Lechchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u38	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Sergey Anatolyovich, I listened to you very carefully. Of course, order should be given on both borders, and on customs, I support it. And the government, of course, has certain weights. But you didn't convince me that the draft law in a number of positions is not what we're trying to do, we're destroying our own manufacturer. Give me an answer, then, if the government doesn't stimulate questions, problems, the interests of the smugglers, the speculators, who have brought the crap to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u39	The bill, on the other hand, supports a national producer. I'll give you an example. Last year, fewer than 50,000 televisions were legally imported into Ukraine, but 1.2 million cinemas and boxes were imported. Of course it's not for assembly. It's just that, at customs, bribes were given to form not as TVs that had 25 percent and 50 percent -- the ban rate -- but as kinescos -- 5 percent. So, please tell me, if we're putting 10 percent across and we're raising the stake twice as much as we did last year, is it increasing the protection of a national producer or reducing the protection? It's about junk and merchants. Dear friends, as Minister of Economy, I warn you once again that if we don't lower the tariff, tomorrow in the consumer market the inflation index will be 11.2 and 11.6, as we suggested, and 20 percent will be the inflation index is the price increase for every consumer, for every Ukrainian citizen. So here's the logic, the motivation for what the government is doing right now. And that's the last thing I can say. We will never deviate from strict customs control. They will no longer steal. So the only solution is to adopt such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I want to believe your promises. The committee reports to the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill that is proposed today for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the first, I stress, the first of a series of new government bills. I mean, from both economic and purely political points, I think that this bill needs to be supported by all of us. One of the directions for additional budget filling was the removal of smuggling and the removal from the shadow of market flows. In this regard, changes to Ukraine’s customs tariff for the reduction and elimination of excessive differentiation of import duties are envisaged. The main causes of the problems that have arisen in customs since the beginning of the new year and, accordingly, the introduction of this bill, are: First. Overpriced import duties for most consumer goods not produced in Ukraine or produced in insufficient quantities. The others. The actions of the State Service and other control bodies, which, on the one hand, decided to work within the framework of a welcoming law, and on the other hand, have taken steps that, even at minimum rates of import duty, through surpluses, including through the introduction of certain normative acts of the Sustainable Service, make the requirement for the customs value of goods economically unscathed. In addition, a certain blockage for the spread of goods is a 100 percent review of all goods, resulting in delays in customs procedures. An analysis of the situation at various customs offices in Ukraine, an appeal by the heads of local governments, including you have in your materials the address of Tsushka Vasil Petrovich of the Odessa government, prompts us to consider the whole set of issues listed and the first step on this path is to adopt this bill. In addition, by adopting the above-mentioned bill, our country is taking two steps to address the strategic issue of this year’s accession to the World Trade Organization. This is the first step. This is the beginning of the transition of the Ukrainian classification of external economic goods based on the codification of the harmonised system of description and coding of 1996 products into the codification of this system in 2002. Second, it is the fulfilment of the obligation to move the customs tariffs of Ukraine to an adversarial, or interest rate. In addition to the rates of excise goods that Ukraine has taken on, it is a procedure for entering the WTO. The draft law provides for reduced import duty rates, full rates to the level of the benefits, and replacement of specific and combined rates at the bar. The adoption of the law will affect the stability of the consumer market and its price situation. Illegal imports will enter legal flows, which, in turn, will be taxed to complete the government budget. I want to remind you that from the mouth of the Minister of Economics, the sum of 3 billion dollars was added. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking considered the above bill and supported the government’s proposal for urgent consideration and adoption. At the same time, in view of the fact that the laws amending the customs tariff of Ukraine have a whole nature, and therefore each of them or individual proposals to amend these bills is a separate legislative proposal that should be concluded by the Customs Tariff Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would be pleased to consider the bill at the same time and on the basis and in general. As a result, we find it appropriate to accept the above project in the first reading and in general. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u42	Sign up for questions. Please explain for three minutes. A miner, followed by Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u43	Sergey Vasilovich. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Of course, all these measures of government merit support and attention, but how thoroughly did your committee analyze all these figures? Sergey Anatolyevich gave us the total figures we lost to smuggling. But there wasn't any decryption for each group of goods. Can you not see the possibility of some step-by-step adoption of this bill, that is, on the basis of further analysis on individual product groups, because wood can be broken here. I'm taking one group: mobile phones. I agree with the old structures where prices go down, but they're driven by cool mobile phones, and they're bought by poor people. What's the zero bet for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u44	I'll be honest. We haven't had enough time to work in detail, to get deeper into this, and this bill is the first. Secondly, I understand that there are no such calculations in the Government, say, deep and long. However, we have carefully considered the bill and have taken into account the logic of the bill. The calculations also show that this first bill was introduced by the Government into the Parliamentary Hall. Let us be consistent, if we have supported the Government in this number of votes, let us support it and the policy. In this case, if this is the first bill, I think it must be supported, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u45	Please, Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u46	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. My previous colleague asked me in his question what was painful about the profit balance and the loss when the bill was passed. But I'm gradually starting to come to this during your report, and I'm starting to think that there's this bill, or there's another manila bridge from Ukraine to Europe, like the entire government of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko program, where there was only one number. It's whether it's just wish or wish, and if it's possible wish, if we lose with the adoption of this bill. How much are we gonna lose? Who Will Answer? I don't think it's possible to agree with your point of view, if we supported the government, let's do all the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u47	What's the question? I understand your caution. Indeed, we pointed out at the Committee's meeting on some industries that needed, including the prohibition of import rates. We pointed to these points. I believe that, of course, the Government should pay attention to this. I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u48	Yes. Thank you. Sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain who signed up. 21 minutes, as we agreed, for the seven speakers. Solomonine, prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u49	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, you and I are considering the first bill introduced by the new government of capitalist ministers for consideration by the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the customs and other services of the old authorities, there were bad boys. Now the new authorities, and they're kind of good guys, they're more in pain for the state and they're offering to change the customs tariff for Ukraine. After studying the bill, I realized that the main thing in it was what was not even highlighted in the reports: the adoption of the bill would be a step towards legalizing imports, improving the work of external economic operators, stabilizing the consumer market in Ukraine and demonstrating to the negotiating partners, following Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, its willingness to make commitments. [[It's, we'll talk, the entourage, and the main thing is]] And all of these commitments, they are aimed at de facto destroying Ukraine's final industry and opening Ukraine's borders to import the spread and the mess of European and American origin. First of all, it touches industrial groups like the 84th and the 85th. What is most impressive? There are no estimates of possible losses, and there will be gains, and there will be potential gains. And that's also a big question mark. What will be the balance between these losses and gains? Will this balance be positive? Is it not all a series of manila bridges from Ukraine to Europe, as is the entire program of the government of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. In connection with everything I have personally set out, I believe that these are the manila bridges that will not bring Ukraine to its well - being. That is why I personally and our faction do not consider it possible to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. And please support our patriotic position.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u50	The word is Olga Hinzburg, a faction of Communists. She'll be followed by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u51	Honourable National MPs, Communist faction, 161 electoral conotopic district. I, when I took this law into my hands, and I'm not very literate as to what the state wants economically. But in fact, when I get my head around it and consult with colleagues who are more aware of it, and especially with my countrymen, I take the example of this thing, which I approach from which side. I have a sewing factory in Konota. She used to make goods for her residents, for her own country. And school uniforms, and specialforms, and a lot of coats, and people made money. During many years of independence, materials, cloth, and clothing are now imported into the sewing factory in Canada. They pay our employees 100 bucks at the sewing factory. They don't pay for children in school, it's for themselves and the firm that orders, it saves money, it's for people to retire, it's for the state to take over, if people get sick, it's for the Ukrainian state to take over. And that country that's doing this is getting rich on account of you. It's at the expense of our country. And when you read what goods we are today, why do we open borders? You think we're opening borders? Agricultural goods have to be imported from abroad. What, they broke their cologne and didn't need their people, didn't have a job? We're looking at an easy industry. You see, only because of their persistence are factories like the Nord, the Audiocabel, the Photon, they keep their industry, and we take the other way around. You ask yourself, ‘ Do you make the advance you were given during the election? Well, from what point of view can we pass such a law today to say: Let's open the borders and take everything and we'll just sit there and drown. The bazaar did. We're still waiting for small businesses who are standing in the market, who have supported this power, to get unemployment, because they're going to open big supermarkets, and they're going to get all this stuff through them. Once again, you'll be out of a job. And you have to get a job and then talk about what you're saying right now. We just need to get it on customs. It's just a normal order, some sort of order. And then you can say it quietly and quietly. There's a lot to talk about, but there's work to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. He will be followed by Mother Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Many today expect that changes to the Customs tariff will solve all problems. No! No! This law will not solve all problems. It won't solve for one simple reason: the old machine hasn't changed yet. This is the first time. And customs included. And the circumstances that the customs office has now given twice as much may increase by another fivefold, or 10 times more. We talked about it here, from the rostrum, and only the deaf didn't hear it. I am against the many positions in this law, even though it should be adopted in the first reading. Why? Because bananas don't grow in Ukraine, oranges don't. And you have to lower the stakes because you think that oranges are inconceivable! Unconditional! They're locking down different chambers of commerce, and they say they're worth 15 cents at all. But they're not in Turkey, they're not in Greece, they're not in Egypt, they're not worth that much until you bring them here. It's all a corrupt margin, a corrupt margin. That's why we have to lower it here. But I am definitely against having some questions. I'm sorry I'm not on the subject of Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Julia Volodymyrna, you resented yourself when you considered serious matters rather than in the President's Hall. Now I'm sorry you're not in the hall. You must be here and hear us, Julia Volodymyrna. So I am definitely opposed to today's issue of destroying ours, such as the cable industry. 27 cable factories, 27,000 employees there, and we're three times down 8544 and we're three times down. We don't want to think, we don't want to think about the future of society and we write "electric showers" twice you're reducing. What, we don't know how to do peaches in Ukraine, we don't have hands in Ukrainians? The Ukrainian people should not be humiliated. We can make corrections, we can do these bras that you write here that we can't do. We can do all of this. And the grapes are fresh, in the district of Odessa they are full, and you write that three times the import bets should be reduced. What, then, should we do in the district of Odessa, in Mikolai, in Herson, in Crimea? To look at foreign grapes? Therefore, dear friends, we must.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u54	Vitaly Mother, People's Will, get ready for the Hometics.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u55	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Group of People's Will. Dear national deputies, distinguished listeners! The law that we are offered today may, in general, be needed with only one: accounting for every industry, industry department, and analysis. I can tell. I received a letter from the Association of Light Industry today. Today, the share of the light industry budget has fallen from 15 percent to 0.4 percent. According to them, once the new customs tariffs are approved, it's not going to be 0.4, it's going to be 0.04. And that's because there's no industrial development today. By lowering import tariffs, we, at the same time, do not have a zero rate for the import of materials for light industry and equipment that is imported for our light industry, which is in most countries of the world. So I think today the main reason why we don't look at the law today is to look at it in one way: the internal market, the supply of goods in the internal market of our industry. We will soon arrive at the fact that the internal market will not be left with its products. So on behalf of all industries, I want to say one thing: let's look at what it will do in the internal market of our domestic manufacturer before we adopt this law. So I want to ask you to be very careful. And don't panic about what's on the car's customs. We have power, we have a state. And if there's any customs demonstration, if we can't handle customs, what kind of state do we have? If tens of thousands of fraudsters do something and the whole state suffers. We're destroying industry. Let's put the necessary order in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u56	Please, Vitaly Hometic. Prepare the Kachuru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the main issue that is being addressed by this law, is not even a decrease in prices in the internal market, nor even a solution to the problem of the border, but rather the fulfilment of the requirements for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization. However, I would like to point out that the reduction in import duties should not only aim at harmonising legislation with the principles and norms of WTO. First of all, protect the domestic manufacturer. There are situations in this bill that cause some concern. This, for example, refers to the production of light industry. In Ukraine, there is a well - developed infrastructure for light industry. Businesses provide both indoor and outdoor clothing, shoes, and underwear. The bill proposes to significantly reduce import duty rates to the ready-made production of light industry. This will undo all the positive developments that have taken place in this field in recent years. And I would also like to pay attention to the reduction in the rate of duty on goods of groups 84 and 85, which is a state-of-the-art technique that is also being developed successfully in Ukraine. For example, refrigerators with import duties falling from 25 percent to 10 percent and some 5 times. Such a reduction in rates can be harmful for a domestic producer. The same comments apply to other products produced in Ukraine. So I think the bill might have to be adopted in the first reading, and that was the decision of the Financial and Banking Committee, but for two weeks that the drafts for the second reading will have to work out all aspects of the status and protection of the domestic producer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u58	Please, Paul Kachur. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u59	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! I think there's no need to convince anyone in this room that there's a problem and actually there's a problem that needs to be solved in the session room. First, correct your mistake, for that is so. The Supreme Council's decision approved customs tariffs that had no bearing on the economy. So if you look at the customs tariffs that are now in effect, it's an immediate scheme for corruption across the border, for illegal cross-border crossings with these bribes in the entire level of vertical power. And if we really want to make order, we really have to adopt this law. But obviously, in adopting the law, we have to think about the compromise that needs to be achieved between the manufacturer, between the consumer and the people who today, who are forced, who are purely economically engaged in trade. Is such a compromise always found, and is such a compromise proposed? Because I think the dominant in our policy should still be the support of a national producer. So I'm going to try to give you two examples just by the category of goods that each of us has a bearing on. In particular, television equipment, our usual television sets. Look, please, at the data we have in Ukraine and probably other TVs like this. It was Kiev, it was Lviv, it was Dnipropetrovsk, it was Donetsk, it was Smila, it was those factories that existed in Ukraine that worked in the television market. Yes, they don't work today. But think about it, Ukraine's market for 2005 alone, the power of the Ukrainian market, 1.5 million televisions. What should the State do in this case, and what should be our national policy? Indeed, the duty on the kits should be minimal, and the duty on the finished products should be maximum. We have a base, we have high-skilled workers, we have the ability at least at first stage to make a large collection in us. But obviously this differentiation is going to happen. And there's obviously going to be very low customs tariffs on the folding, and at least 20 percent of the customs tariff on the finished product is saved. The other one. The second category is shoes. Dear friends, who have encountered anyone who has seen their shoes declared on the border? 50-60 cents pair of shoes. What's that for? But so that no customs congregations can be paid. Again, we have an opportunity today to unite the market with
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u60	Please, Mikhail Kosov, "Our Ukraine" faction. Since you're staying for a minute, Suprun, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u61	Mikhail Kosov "Our Ukraine." Honorable colleagues are national MPs, distinguished radio listeners, the question that we are considering today is not ourselves. Its value and meaning are combined with two other problems. The first problem is, how do customs tariffs collected at customs centers in Ukraine affect or affect another problem called smuggling? And the second problem is, how much is the price policy of customs tariffs contributing to or not contributing to the domestic producer? I want to strongly deny the opinion of those of my colleagues who believe that literally everything we talk about in this matter is going to touch and interfere with national producers. Well, here's an example: we seem to have passed a law last year on customs tariffs for foreign cars. It turns out that the imports of this product have declined 11 times in the last year. Does this mean that the foreigner in our country has actually become 11 times smaller? But no, they got into the territory of our country through smuggling, and the domestic light-car manufacturer, our famous ZAZ, didn't help at all. Or another example that applies to the entire food supply. I was recently approached by the Ukrainian Association of Fishermen, and today I have sent a deputy address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. It turns out that in our native waterholes, we only catch 10 percent of this fish that our fellow countrymen consume, and 90 percent of it is imported. But here, the Department of Agriculture's veterinary service is doing everything to do and about this endless amount of material to suppress this kind of industry, this kind of transportation interests of ours. And I think in this case we have to do things in different directions. First, indeed, pricing policy, second, fostering domestic goods and customs order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u62	Please, Ludmila Suprun, faction of the NDP "Republic".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u63	Ludmila Suprun, NDP faction, budget committee. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you with such a request. I suggest we adopt this law in the first reading, because we really need to change the customs tariff. And there is no doubt about that today. But the Supreme Council and, in particular, the budgetary committee want to make this decision meaningfully, so that it is clear what losses and revenues we can have from the introduction of customs tariffs that we need to take further changes to legislation, including, for example, criminalizing the increase in the liability for smuggling, because the granting of credit reduced tariffs for importing goods into Ukraine should be accompanied by an increase in the mandatory criminal responsibility for carrying out illegal activities, for the avoidance of the payment of taxes. On the other hand, I would like us to also analyze the production of goods that can replace imported into Ukraine by imports, which are similar to the products imported into Ukraine by imports so that we don't destroy the domestic producer, so that we don't raise substantial prices for products and foodstuffs. And I can say that even a brief analysis of these customs tariffs causes some misunderstandings, because on the same level, we understand that different rates are being set by groups of goods. Different because the percentage is changing. For example, on a metal, a zero - to - twelve rate is applied to other goods. In our sense, the cost of these goods has to be bet the same rate, or, let's say, zero. True, I spoke to Teryohin on this subject, and he announced that there was a special agreement regarding Ukraine’s entry into the WTO’s WTO WTO, with regard to the zero bet on the metal. But what we need to talk about today is that we're giving maximum support to a domestic producer who manufactures apples that produce grapes that produce other types of berries, fruit-based products. Therefore, we must accept tariffs that are balanced in the interests of the Ukrainian producer, consumer and State budget. Under these conditions, I propose to uphold the law in the first reading and to accept it for consideration by our profiling committees. And it's all the profile committees. And then immediately consider the second reading and accept the final. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. It's because of Vasadze's vote. He's a master. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. You know, the law is important. But the law requires serious economic justification. And we need to build on the interests of producers in Ukraine. I want to give you one example. You know, lowering the duty is not yet an order in the country. You probably remember, especially Sergei Anatolyevich, when car duties were three percent and 80 percent of cars were smuggled in. Today, I can give you a bunch of examples where you don't pay at all, or three percent of the tax, and you even have a VAT refund. That is, if there is no order in the country, these actions will lead to nothing. That's the first one. Second. When you say that 10 per cent protects national production or any production in Ukraine. That's absolutely not true. Let me give you some examples. The value of money in our country is now higher than that of 10 per cent. And if we look at the state of national machinery or production and even in Turkey, as plastic chairs produce, we can't even produce them in Ukraine today. That's why I'm asking you all to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u66	Yes, please, Masterpiece microphone, one minute. He's behind him, Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u67	Vladimir Masterskin, People's Party. Adam Ivanovich, first of all, can't put this bill in general, because he didn't go through the budget committee, he didn't go through the Industrial Policy Committee, and the whole procedure is broken. The second question that I wanted to ask and to get an answer to. You're signing up now, in what, the government? Is it because you can't put order on the border? What is this state that cannot protect its interests abroad? Today to lower interest rates and how to fight corruption, it's not a method -- first of all. And second of all, let's look at the protection of those jobs that are declared. If we speak five million jobs today, it is primarily to protect our economic interests, including the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u68	Please, Landik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! I am really very and very upset about this by adopting such a document. I'm literally today, not today, but I came back from Europe that week. We make today's product under "BOSH", under "SIEMENS", we produce products under "CANDY" and so on. I'm not talking about what this is. And so today, we've gone out for a million things, more than a million just refrigerators. Previously, in the Soviet Union, all three factories were produced in the 85th year, in all, I repeat, 710,000. One. Same on the gas plates and so on. And most of all. Today in Russia customs duties are much higher than ours. Thus, Ukraine becomes accepted: everyone will bring all the goods here, then they will try to form a document of origin here, as it is said, to send them back to Russia. I mean, Russia will be. We'll have everything we've got. And the next question, I asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u70	Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues. Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u71	Russia. Therefore, honourable colleagues, such a law cannot be passed. It says here, essentially, today a refrigerator is being shipped to Ukraine for 30 dollars, a washing machine for 30 dollars, a TV for 25 dollars -- that's where it's supposed to be ordered, that's the order. You don't have to enter customs tariffs here. So I'm asking you very much, let's get this law back to work, or we'll eventually lose our manufacturer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Yes, the discussion is over. Please give me a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Well, let's keep our emotions down, because now let's see what kind of emotions are coming out on Ukrainian borders. I'd like to ask you a few questions, well, at least three minutes. I can't answer all the questions here in one minute. First of all, customs problems. Right, Mr. Landik said he doesn't solve the issue of taxation what he says. Mr. Landik has passed a bill prohibiting the fiscal import of any refrigerators into Ukraine. There's a bill. So what we're going to do is we're going to enter 10 percent of the negotiable tax. If we're told that we have a high cost of money, we need to know that we have a cost of labor, we have energy costs less than in Europe, let's say. So let us be careful about the factors in production. It's about textiles. I'd like -- this is the textile question -- I'd like to point out that the bet doesn't go down in the textiles: as 12 was in the payload, so it stayed. We took the full bet. So the textile that's coming from Africa is going to be taxed not 24 percent as it was, but as is now taxed on textiles from Europe, let's say 12 percent. Unification. Why is this being done? To prevent bribes from being given to customs officers, so that they do not change the origin of the goods. Regarding the idea of lowering bets at all. Everyone says: "We're lowering bets." We're not lowering the stakes by this bill! We're increasing the stakes! Because today the effective rates that are actually being paid on the border are lower because smuggling is going everywhere! A bribe bet is paid at restraining rates. That's it. We're increasing by six billion, I'll tell you again, coming in a year. And the last. You can make a decision about first reading -- I'll be grateful to you. You can make a decision about both readings. In this case, I'd like to take it down for a separate discussion of this bill, 8544 group is a cable, and we really need to look at what to do with it separately. But if you don't accept it in two readings, I'd like you to ask yourself, what are the two weeks going to do at the customs office, and what are the two weeks going to do at the price segment? What's going to happen? We, once again, no one on duty, I repeat, we don't steal. So the alternative is to pay by 50 percent, by 320 percent for each product. Let's also think about the Ukrainian consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u74	There's no conclusion from the committee. Then it will be determined. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I put it to a vote: the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff, bill number 7114, on the basis of the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:15:27]] For 309 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u75	Adam Ivanovich, let me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u76	Once again, the honourable colleagues, on the whole, were comments and, most importantly, it was a comment by a committee that had a direct bearing on what would happen to our state budget. So in general, I can't put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u77	Adam Ivanovich, is the economic relevance of this decision. Then I ask the Supreme Council to tell you how to miss the goods in Ukraine right now, what to do with these queues. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's proposed to pay bribes. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Don't get excited. I repeat, we have a rule that you keep telling us to stick to. If there is at least one national MP who denies that the law cannot be adopted in the second reading, the chairman has no right to do so. That's one thing. The other one. The State Budget Committee, to which the bill has a direct bearing, also requests that we look at this. So on the other hand, breakups, respectable colleagues. So let's do it this way, we'll do it this way, we'll do it with you, we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it the same way, and we'll do it the same way, and we'll do it the other way, and we'll do it, we'll do it the same way, we'll do it. You don't? Under the reduced procedure, the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine, Bills Nos. 5716 and 6127. Please, Bysarov Leonid Volodymyrovich. You don't? Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. I can't see either. Then from the Proscuratov Committee, Tamara Sergiyevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, these seem to be two good bills that seem to help channel money. That comes in the form of financial assistance, or donations to schools to pay wages. In general, while supporting the idea of improving the working conditions of teachers, the Committee considers that the legislative sanctioning of the remuneration of teachers at the expense of charitable contributions is contrary to the requirements of the basic laws of Ukraine, which govern the use of budgetary resources and the payment of work. That is, article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the freeness of secondary education, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, the Cabinet Decision of 04.08.2000 approving the procedure for receiving contributions and contributions from legal and physical persons by budgetary institutions and educational institutions, health care, culture, science, sports, and physical education for the purposes of financing them. And it really creates the basis for strengthening the struggles of the parents of the students. Dear colleagues, I'm here to make the teachers' salary go up, but to do that, you have to anticipate the cost of the state budget. It needs to work in Ukraine, finally, article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. In addition, the remuneration of work in budgetary institutions is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers rather than by a collective process. And the next inadequacy of the bill is that the offered payments to teachers, you can't refer at all to the category of wages. Because, according to the author of the bill, it should not be included in the calculation of wages. And I know very well, because I worked alone in school, which means that my parents get these sacrifices or, as they call it, voluntary contributions to school. And as for people who work in children's sports schools, they're still part of the educational process. Thus, according to article 29 of the Ukrainian Education Act, the secondary education system is an integral system of education. And by the way, yesterday we adopted a bill that is the author of which is similar to this bill, where sports school teachers are given the same status as a teacher. Therefore, the committee believes that bills should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Short-term procedure. Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u81	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's bloc, Our Ukraine. Dear national deputies, of course, we see with you that the approach to the introduction of laws goes on the same way as they did. A couple of weeks ago, we were looking at 9 amendments to the Education Act, and now we're looking at two changes to the same article in 61. When I read them, I want to say that Tamara Proscuratov's right is absolutely and right committee, so it's better not to make any changes. Why? Legislative sanctioning the provision of pedagogical staff to public and municipal educational institutions will create the basis for strengthening the student parental struggles, which unfortunately can no longer be tolerated. And it also violates the requirements of article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine on free secondary education. I would like to pay attention by using this high court, government officials, including the new minister of education, to the fact that even children who have paid colossal costs or their parents in higher education institutions. I'll give you an example. At the Odessa National University of Mečnikow, where I was once educated and proud of it, there are now such "conditions" for students that students are writing in gloves. Students, including those who paid seven thousand two hundred for the contract. I'm asking Mr. Nicolanek to send a commission there immediately. What is this doing? It's harassment. This was not the case with children in the war. And that's seven thousand two hundred. You have to pay people to have it that way. Now, the project proposes, one project by Bysarov proposes, and the second project by Gurova recalls, suggests that these costs that go, material values, intangible assets, could be made to carry out statutory activities in educational institutions and separately that in public and municipal institutions, additionally with pay. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what's going on. They still didn't pay taxes from there, because this is reflected in valid legislation. There is no need to make any changes. With regard to pay, I stress that the conditions of pay are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I really didn't want the situation to happen that children would be different. They said your father counted the money, and your father or mother could not count it. We've already divided these kids into different classes. You can't do that. All children are the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u82	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Behind him is Kafarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkla, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I think we've almost come together on the same page of the two bills that we've read. I just want to add to what Proscuratov said here and what Karmazin said, that's all. We have a deal to make. I mean, we people's deputies. Well, you know, at the beginning of the 21st century, power changed, so let's do something pragmatic and end up with bills that are completely popultic, empty, that carry inside. Well, it's just that voters like it, but actually voters don't like it. Well, how could it be suggested that an absolute nonsense, and a whole group of authors, a ridiculous bill? What if there are donations to school, the money will be paid to the teachers. Well, someone can imagine. What would that be, what would happen to these schools? That school is good because there are more wealthy people living in that village or in the area. Well, what we have in Ukraine is rich people, we know. I like the wise man’s phrase very much. He says: “If you want to know how God treats money, look at the villains he has given them into his hands. Because of this, you know, you have to think about something completely different. There's another problem. We've got to raise the teachers' salary because we've dropped it down below can't be. Teachers today can't subscribe to the newspaper or a professional magazine, nothing. And here someone's picking up and offering, I say again, a whole group of people. You have to throw it away, I think, just make fun. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that the bill that Gurov is proposing to add to the list of all teachers is to include sports teachers. I think it's very smart, it's normal, it's extracurricular education, and it's also these people, sports coaches, sports instructors, they're absolute participants in this process. And in closing, I want to say, here today was a very nice talk by a colleague of Tuggnibok and he said that the Sandman had warned Kravchenk, and he shot himself. But Tuggnibok himself said that Kuchma should be arrested. I mean, Oleg, you're warning Kuchma. That's why I think we need to do self-defense to protect the President from trouble. And I have the moral right to lead this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u84	Kafarsky Volodymyr, faction of the People’s Party. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u85	Dear colleagues. Why did this law come about? On the one hand, we don't pay teachers the wages that would allow them to work and prepare our children for life in conditions that we enter the twenty-first century. On the other hand, a decree was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on August 4, 2000, approving the procedure for obtaining voluntary contributions, donations, and so forth. In this regulation, paragraph one points out that this regulation sets out the order and requirements for the receipt and payment of these voluntary contributions, and paragraph two points out that the cost of charitable contributions cannot be directed towards the payment of salaries to employees of institutions and educational, health, culture, science, sports, and physical education institutions. Thus, this law was to annul this position of the Cabinet of Ministers. But today the national MPs spoke and talked about the fact that we cannot ask questions about any extra fees to teachers. Take an elite city school where they can fund and pay, and get a rural school -- who's going to give some extra money to the teacher? It's not our right to refer to civil society. All teachers have to pay and go from the State Budget to the level at which it should be. The other side is that you can create, in the local authorities, some kind of fund that will redistribute the money that the public has today into solving school issues. I want to say that in my village it's y. In the 1930s, the villagers built a school. They sold their land and bought materials in Austria and built a school. But we live in a state that should decide these things on its own today. The second question. When it comes to the law of Gurov, it basically repeats the law of the Vojs, which was passed yesterday. The difference between these two laws is that one states that the law of Gurov has been in force since January 2006 and the law of Vojsz since January 1, 2005. So I think we should join. This is a rejection, and Gurov's law to add to yesterday's law to redraft it on second reading. Thank you. Please, Solomatin Yuri, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u86	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Honorable colleagues seem to have already set out everything to understand the essence of the bill and determine its position. I'd like to add another one. Let's think about how we've repeatedly discussed, at a good pace, the question of increasing the status of education, of medicine, and transferring it, of comparing it to the status of a civil servant. And if a civil servant does, there are certain limits to receiving money from other sources. So let's take this situation into account: if you and I think that teachers, educators, doctors are state people, and we will continue to do everything to raise their status, then we should go along with raising their pay, not looking for very other highly questionable sources of money to properly support their standard of living. And last but not least, let's take into account that every employee now has an individual accrual account, and when a person retires, whether it's a civil servant or a non-state official, he's going to get a pension from that kind of money that comes into this individual accumulation account. But at the same time, here's what's proposed in the bill that's being discussed, which is against, it works against having this money counted in the average wage, and they were counted in the calculation of pensions when the educated get close to it. So I think, and the faction of Communists also think that this bill, in the way it's presented, even for good reasons, is the other side of the medal and, if we look at it, this other side is much worse than the one that was given on the basis. I'd like to ask all of you, my dear fellows, for the sake of this bill's authors, to think about it and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u87	Black with a motive, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Thank you for letting me know. Christian Liberal Party, Chernovetsk. Well, the law itself, let's show by vote zero, he's actually naive. We all studied here in 40 years abroad, studied and there were no charity funds for teachers, then the State paid teachers a normal salary, and they suffered with many of us, right? - but we've made people as decent as possible. First of all, I believe that a law on criminal liability should be introduced as an alternative to this law for any charitable contributions that the whole country has not yet achieved. That's the first one. Secondly, banning them in all areas that exist only because they exist in Kiev alone in the Kiev Mission Administration. There's nothing you can do without it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u89	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, with the Shurm's motives, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u90	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] In principle, the goal of raising the level of pay for teachers is very good, but the path to achievement is completely wrong. By directing voluntary contributions to the pay of educational workers, this is not within the scope. Those who have studied children or who continue to teach at school know what voluntary donations are. Today for the renovations, tomorrow for the festival, the day after tomorrow for the commission, and so on. And the rest, if the law were to be applied to teachers, these voluntary donations would quickly become voluntary compulsory. And in general, if these payments are not paid to pay, what are those contributions called? Finally, all of this will come under heavy burden on the parents, the disciples. Well, how will parents be able to make such contributions, if not? We're going to divide the children into different categories. We have to solve this problem in a completely different way. Not with these donations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No other warnings? Let's move on to the voting procedure. I'll put them to the vote. No matter what the committee's decision to reject these bills is, the regulation is based on the vote to adopt them as a basis. May I have your attention, Your Honor? It is on the basis of a draft Ukrainian law amending article 61 of the Education Act, author of the National Deputy of Bysarov. [[Registration number 5716]] Based on the base. There's a vote coming, please. [[12:37:00]] For-16 The decision is not taken. It is submitted to the vote, please note, for adoption on the basis of a bill amending the Education Act of Ukraine, the author of the National MP, Vadim Gurov. [[Registration number 6127]] [[on the conditions of payment of work for children's sports schools]] [[12:37:41]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The drafts were rejected, since the committee recommended them for rejection, so there is no need to vote for the re-reading. Dear colleagues, with the motives of Boris, Sergey Sobolev, I'm sorry, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u92	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a great request, we voted in the first reading in 306 votes to amend and supplement the customs tariff. It seems to me that if Parliament does not now return to this issue and make a final decision, I am convinced that there will be problems not only on customs but on the consumer market in Ukraine. That's why we're asking the Minister of Economics and European Integration: to take down those positions that are irritable to national MPs and to separate sectors and, after all, to go back to that question. make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see there's a desire to comment on this subject - three minutes, please. And then I'm going to ask the Minister of Economics and European Integration to support the Cabinet of Ministers, more specifically the proposal, the recommendation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, Gregory Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u94	George Manchulenko, 203rd District, Victor Yushchenka Block, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues, it seems to me that we should decide today. In fact. The situation is not quite simple, which we now have on state borders, including, perhaps, on account of sabotage by individuals from the former administration of the State Customs Service. We need to solve this issue and in order to really not have a certain crisis in the consumer market in the middle of Ukraine. If there are certain positions that do not determine whether they are contradictory to individual MP factions and groups, they may be contradictory in terms of the individual sectors of the Ukrainian national economy. So maybe we really have to compromise, remove them, but with the final decision taken at the customs rate, because we still have to send it to President 6 to get it to legal effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u95	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. You and I are witnessing double standards, the same double standards that we blamed the old authorities, and now those who blamed them, and when they set up their orange representatives under the so-called new authority, they are now re-imposing these double standards. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there's a Rules, I'm here, I'm here, yes, there's a Rules, and this Rules provides, if there's even one remark, and there's not one, to send for further work, including a note, was made by a very important committee on the financial provision of budgetary solutions to problems. So I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, not to give in to new authority on its double standards, but to do what you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u97	Oleg Rimaruk, if you please, the faction of Ukraine. Is there a Roman? Orestes Klimpus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u98	Thank you. I'm asking you to give the leader of our faction Bogdan to Hubski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u99	Bogdan Hubsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u100	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Indeed, it is important today to eliminate corruption that exists in our country that is an important issue. And on the other hand, let's do it this way so that the price of imported goods doesn't go up. If there are huge taxes on imports, it means that if you import officially, it's going to be high prices for these consumer goods. And if they do it off the record, they're going to pay bribes, prices are going to be low, but there's going to be corruption. To overcome corruption, which is now the main goal, and to lower consumer prices. Customs duties, or customs duties, should be reduced immediately. That's why we're asking and arguing to put the law to a vote. If there are issues that are not related to lobbying specific businesses, they may really be considered. But when it comes to specific businesses, I think we should think about Ukrainian citizens first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u101	Minister Sergey Terjohin, what do you want to do with this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u102	Yeah. Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. Indeed, if we do not make a decision today, we will face a complete stop to customs on our borders. And we're going to face a sharp rise in prices in the consumer market. So I have an offer on behalf of the government. Remove position 8544 for further discussion. [[It's cable production.]] Forty-four. All cable production. And there's an offer to gradually go to those lighthouses that are economically sound, to pick up the bribe twice in the household refrigerators. To keep it quiet. I'm asking you not to disturb me. To quietly come to normal tariff policy. So with these two remarks, I would like to support this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, let's do this now, if you don't mind. I'm going to put to the vote who wants to go back and look at the draft of this law in the second reading. And by the results of your vote, we will see if there is a good will to accept it as a law as a whole. No warning? Dear colleagues, please. You make up your mind. Please. I understand, but you have to be sure you're going to vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down. There is a vote on the return to the consideration today in the second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. Please, this is Project 7114. The MPs are defined by voting. Please. Well, there's a government turnout, you have to respond to it somehow. You don't vote and that's it. What are you doing? [[12:45:31]] For 207 The decision is not taken. All of it. I'm asking the government. Well, calm down. The government would like us to prepare for the changes and refinements, and we will consider this bill. The factions? Please. Please use fractions: "Our Ukraine" - 90, Communists - 0, "Regions" - 7, People's Party - 8, SPI - 14, SDPU - 1, "One Ukraine" - 22, "Timoshenko - 21, "Dem.Ukraine" - 0, "Will of the People" - 3, "Democratic Initiatives" - 4, "Soyuz" - 13, "Centre" - 12, "NDP, "Republic" - 1, "non-fractional - 11. Yes, dear fellows, the draft decree is being introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u104	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, can I literally have one line? One line, okay? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u105	One minute, one minute, one minute. 30 seconds, please, with your permission from the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u106	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I repeat that every day thousands of containers are added to other containers. Today, those queues that were built at western crossings reach 17 km! So we're getting a full economic foothold! I'm asking you to come back, and with these two additions, blow up the situation. We can't afford to pay for corruption again. Well, that's up to you. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u107	A draft regulation on granting approval for the release by the President of Ukraine, John Cizha, from the post of Head of the State Committee on Television, Radio. Registration number 7147. I ask you, the government and the President's representative in the government and the President's representative in Parliament and the government representative in Parliament, to consult with the MPs and factions. When we're ready, we'll be back. Reporter - Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, please. I'm very short. Prepare for the Justice Committee and then for the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'm very brief. According to the President's proposal, which has officially come to Parliament and is handed over to the National Deputies, the President requests the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release Chiju Ivan Sergiyovich from office as Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine. In fact, at this point in time, it is fully in line with the Constitution of Ukraine a norm that has not been changed, which is now in force, according to which the President of the State is making a proposal on this issue, and the decision is finally taken by the Supreme Council. That is why the President calls on the Ukrainian national deputies to make the right decision. According to the procedure, there was a committee meeting yesterday, and the procedure was followed. That's why I officially read the President's address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u109	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee Sergey Makarovich Pravdenko. What, were the questions? Please. There's no committee? Yeah, where's Sergei Makarovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, there is the submission by the President of Ukraine of the request to us to grant permission for the release of Ivan Sergiyovich Chiza from his current position, but this issue, fortunately, of the Supreme Council and Parliamentarianism, is in recognition of the final Supreme Council of Ukraine. Probably just so that things don't get in the hands of one branch of government, especially what's in the information field. Maybe that's why the committee got a little distracted, which I just have to report on. This is my function right over here. Six members of the committee to vote in favour of allowing the President to be released, I will say so, six members of the committee legally, because five active members of the committee and one member is the deputy governor of Artemenko, sixth, legally six. And four are against: three members of the Communist faction and your humble servant. To decide what to do with this arithmetic, with this position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it is the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the committee. But since most members of the committee were in favor of being released, the committee also filed a motion and a decision: To grant permission for the release of John Sergiyovich Cizha. I told you about the schedule of votes. Actually, that's all I had to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u111	Thank you. Ivan Sergiyovich Chizh, head of the committee, please. As long as you need. Excuse me, is there a question for the committee? Please, three minutes to ask. Wait, please. Beg the head of the committee for 10 minutes. Okay. Please sign up. Three minutes to ask. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up for the questions. Vladimir Bondarenko, please. Then Olga Hinsburg will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u112	I want to give the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u114	Vladimir Yavorowski, member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Dear Mr. Sergio, thank you for providing an objective picture of our discussion today. I only have a question to ask you as to my colleague, of course. You said that five for the release of John Sergiyovich and six for the governor. You know that he has not yet been appointed, and he is legally a national deputy. I mean Yuri Artemenko. Why did you emphasize that he was a governor rather than a national MP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u115	This is my personal right, if you will, to political sarcasm. I said, "The governor is a deputy." I didn't use the word "three," I said, "governor-deputy." Take it any way you want, it's my right to say what I think is necessary. I'd have filed for him a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u116	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u117	I reported from the Committee on the schedule of votes: 6 - 4. All of it. If you don't think otherwise, it's your level! And I have a right to believe that this is my level.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u118	Let's not cross. Well, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u119	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Masenku of the Communist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u120	Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u121	Thank you, Olga Petrovna. I actually have a question for the Permanent President of the Supreme Council. Well, we know that if a person is released from a position, it's in any organization, even the worst one in the world, that there's practically some motivation -- why people are expressing distrust and why they're recommended to be released from office. That's not the motivation we've heard. I would like to say this either by a permanent representative of the President, or a representative of the committee, why it was so sudden that the question of releasing John Sergiyovich Zhijah, although I may not support him at all, but there must be motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u122	Well, that's really a question for your esteemed colleague Sergey Soboljev. The committee of deputies from "Our Ukraine" said. [[I can report it.]] This was motivated by the fact that the President formed his team and motivated it by the fact that it was his right. That was the position. Perhaps a respected colleague of Soboljev will be complemented if he deems it necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u123	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u124	Dear colleague! Please tell me what will happen if the question is not voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u125	I think Ivan Sergiyovich will not resign, but I don't think he can work effectively in this situation. But this is again, and all of a sudden, it's just my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u126	Thank you, Sergey Makarovich. Have a seat, please. Ivan Sergiyovich. You asked for 10 minutes. Dear colleagues! Is there no objection? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Thank you very much for your opportunity to speak in this room and to report on what has been done, to share your thoughts about yesterday, today, and tomorrow in the Ukrainian information area. For over three years, I had to lead the State Committee on Television and Radio. This is to some extent a record, although the plank that I, as a manager, set before me was completely unsuccessful. Of course, I mean, not the term of office, but the level of results achieved. What kind of farming did I have to accept in 2002? At that time, a well - balanced, misinformed information system was already at the expense of its leaders. Established by two ministries, the committee had almost double the number of executives in doubling its functions. The work of the department was of a superficially unsystemic nature, and the committee sinned in the decision - making process. There has been a lack of proper coordination between state broadcasters and district authorities in the field of press and information. The issues of language politics and social morality were totally foreign to the committee. The book - publishing business in Ukraine was in a deep crisis. I'm not talking about the level of technical equipment even the committee itself: one computer for 10 people, the liver machines were about the same number, maybe a little bit more. In addition, it was a difficult year of parliamentary elections, and we had to learn, as it were, to ensure equality of access to public information and even to commercial television channels, because the State Information Resource was not enough to implement the People's Deputies Elections Act. In general, the entire information system of the State from the governing body to the smallest information activity was balanced. What was done in three years? First of all, there is a systematic approach to the formation and implementation of national information policies and the development of national information space. This was reflected in 30 legislative and more than 200 legal acts, the concept of national information policy, the State Journalist program, the Little Press sector programs and the Area Radio and Television. The practical result of their consistent implementation was, above all, the creation of a state-owned satellite-language television company, a global service called Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting, which is now being adopted in 82 countries in Europe and Asia and on the global Internet network. I'm proud of this project. Thanks to its implementation, Ukraine has opened a window into international information space and finally has the opportunity to speak to the world in its own language, to objectively explain the course of events in our country. Ukraine was seen, Ukraine was heard, and interest in Ukraine grew. According to international centres, our global UTR service has been in the third month in a row, confidently taking third place in the world in the rating of television companies. And there are 350 companies that speak on the global Internet, and that's where 350 companies work with this state-of-the-art technology. A company called Culture, created and increasingly confident, without which a national segment of the information space cannot be imagined today. A Shrimp Film studio that didn't burn down three years ago is on its feet, and debts from wages amounted to several hundred thousand dollars. The new life was given a program for the development of local television and radio communication, which was successfully launched in 99th year, and then put under the dress. Over the past three years, district broadcasters have increased the volume of speech, and the area of confident reception of local television companies has grown on average from 45 percent to 75 percent. Although we have a whole problem area: Kyivska, Sumska, Zacarpatska. Despite the fact that in the last three years the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio has hit 2 significant hits on local television: in 2002, it was released from the 3rd network, and in 2003 it was pushed off the 2nd National Channel, local national television is growing, and the audience's affection for it is growing. A joint project of all television companies, the information and analysis program "Ukraine: Day after Day" is recognised as better at the 5th International Yaltic Television Forum, the Golden Tavrida. For three years now, we have been clearly implementing Parliament’s decrees to highlight the work of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will remind the distinguished National Deputies that when I came to the State Committee, the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the radio had not been broadcast for five years. Implementation of the State Journalist Program. The Little Press industry program has been allowed to halt the decline in the local press and to fill in the specific content of the situation of domestic legislation that regulates media activity. The stereotypes of the relationships between creative groups of periodical editions and their founders are broken. We've made 90 percent of the district administrations, the districts, make deals with newspapers to explain their activities and pay for it. And it's very important that editors get some support from local budgets, that's over 5 million. In most areas, computer sets and presses are introduced, and editorials connect to the Internet, offset printing in printery areas, and so on. We went to places, studied the situation. We have a whole system of visiting colleges. We taught people, we strengthened Ukrateleradio. The institute is a branch, and it's gradually becoming a more and more powerful frame-making center. We've activated the activities of the industry's research institutes. Within three years, a stable system of interaction was established between the committee and the public organizations, especially with the national community of journalists. Last year, the first prize winners were established by the government of the name John Frank, the Forest of Ukraine. Viacheslava Crnovola We've introduced a sectoral credit card for the development of the information field. In particular, I would like to emphasize that we were involved in a serious national book study. Thanks to you, honourable national deputies, our project on State support for the book - publishing work of Ukraine has been supported as a law. This law has been in force since July. And what I want to tell you is that statistics are stubborn, and they're absolutely illustrating where we're going. If we had 0.4 books per capita in 1999, 0.4 with a total of 6282. So I can report with pride that in 2004, Ukraine received over 15,000 titles of books, which is the largest ever absolute result by name. And we went over the edge of a book. We got 54 million total sales. In better times, the Soviets had three books per capita, and we're actively moving there. I'd only like to warn you that you can't destroy a system that's built, including a bookstore, and that's what these ideas are. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to outline the issues and I very much hope that you will not leave them out of your sight. First. A lassy piece for some willing - public and communal speech. We didn't just support the idea of creating public public broadcasting, we did a lot of things to make sense of it. District state broadcasters today are the best basis for local citizens to have their own television and radio. I think we need to take it under control and under the auspices of the Supreme Council to give the territorial communities a powerful national channel with their constituents in the territories. To this day, no one — local or higher — will swallow the oligarchs. It won't work again. Because property complexes and broadcasting systems have a mixed form of ownership. We've chosen this line of behavior in many regions of the network of radio programs -- the property of the territorial community. Social-national speech, too, needs to be thought about. But this is also the subject of very serious discussions. The other one. Convinced that the policy of total media dissipation is far from in line with national interests. Whoever says or does not say, but in many democratic countries, the authorities act as the biggest producers of the information product. That's 60 percent of the data, for example. I want to ask you, from what point on is the state's position a disgrace and a disgrace. In the meantime, that is the kind of government position that shames me. In three years, I have not created a channel under me or for myself. We've saved everything for society. Who and whose interests are now lobbying? What do we care about? About establishing national interests or ignoring them. Finally, Ukraine is in danger of losing information sovereignty if we do not respond accordingly. Today, 83 foreign speakers in the territory are called Bukovina, more than 40. And that, unfortunately, was outside the jurisdiction of the State Committee. Thank you very much to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its fruitful cooperation, thank you for having put up with me for three years, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I also want to thank from the Supreme Council rostrum all those who work in the state television and radio system, all those who work on the ground, our colleagues on the State Committee itself, my deputies, department heads, all the employees. We've created a good team, we've protected the nation's information interests, the nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u128	Give me 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u129	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I also want to say that with or without a position I have been, I am and will be a patriot of Ukraine, I will work for the people, I will fight for a just Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u130	Thank you. Questions? Please, three minutes. Please sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u131	Ivan Sergiyevich, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u132	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u133	Ivan Sergiyovich, while you were doing your duties, working with you, some questions were settled. Now you've said a lot of positive things about what you've done, about your grades, about your intelligence. At the same time, the realities of Ukrainian life are such, Ivan Sergiyyovich, that we cannot fully separate both politics and the things we do. You had a political position a year ago that you chose, you went to her. Please tell me, Ivan Sergiyovich, why are we not talking today about what vacchanalia was in the public media, especially in the regions, about bringing into society thesets that almost broke Ukraine? One clip with Cobzon on fascism! Where were we all?Oh, my God! And the ones who were supposed to say that? Why aren't we talking about this today? Why aren't we talking about district government newspapers that brought all these topics into society? Why are we silent about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u134	Thank you. I really thank you for your cooperation, we have had such contacts. As for the ratings, well, since the President claims and, in fact, that is how we should live and act, that we are in the rule of law and that we need to learn to live rightly, every such fact, if it is unconstitutional, illegal, must be resolved in court. I'll tell you frankly that the abuse on the screens, we've done this evaluation, a lot, for a few orders, was more in commercial than in nationals. I even gave a special order, with which the leaders were severely warned. What if it's to someone? Well, by the first, it's already been concluded. So to say that the State Committee has condoned this or contributed to it, or created any preconditions, there are no grounds, no facts, because that is not the case. And in general, there is definitely a problem. But I'm afraid that it can happen again under new power, and in a new situation, if you go through the "foreigners are enemies, they have everything." Well, for strangers, it's the law, for their own, as you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u135	Yuri Solomatin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Please pass the word to Peter Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u137	Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Ivan Sergiyovich! Well, first of all, I'd like to confirm that information that you issued from the rostrum that the broadcast of the sessions of the Supreme Council was renewed right during the time of committee management, first of all. Secondly, I would like to confirm that, twice at a committee meeting, the committee you led reported on their work. She didn't do all the work for me, but within the resources you had, she used it. And my question is: Dear Ivan Sergiyovich, please answer this question: today in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was the President of Ukraine and the presence of a standard here -- too much for that confirmation. Why do you think he didn't want his presentation on your release to sound from the Supreme Council's rostrum and give you arguments about your release as chairman of the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u139	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. I don't think the President of Ukraine has any reason to file such a release personally from the rostrum. It's a constitutional norm, it's fulfilled, it's submitted through a representative -- it's all right. There was obviously a second reason for the president to appear here. As for cooperation, I really agree with you. And we need to consider these circumstances. Some criticise me that there is a committee in the Constitution. It's hard to deal with because it's a constitutional committee. So you and I, your colleagues, back in 1996, when we adopted the Constitution, we specifically introduced such an organ that the Supreme Council, well, was subordinated, both to the Supreme Council and to the other system of authority, so that there would be less administration. Today, I am also accused of not being able to deal with people because I am not expelling them. I've never done it, and I'm not gonna do it now. But if that total system didn't have a command to release everyone, by the means of information it wasn't -- there might have been some kind of dipping, I was fighting it, I wasn't fighting it, I wasn't six, as I promised here from the rostrum -- they're going through the radio now, through the television crew: everyone under the knife. And since it interferes with Chiji, the first one, of course, is Chihuahua. My point is, not on the job, but on the position. I have it, I have it, and I will keep it, with or without a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u140	Thank you, Ivan Sergiyovich, sit down. Time's up. Dear colleagues, what are we going to do before making a decision? For reasons, please write it down. Three minutes, 'cause I think it's gonna be a long time. Sign up, three minutes. George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u141	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Viktor Yushchenka Block, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head, dear colleagues! We heard that we already had a very good time in the information space, in the television and in the radio. But if you think about the past presidential election campaign, it was just a vachanalia that was created in the media for the benefit of a successful candidate. Even more deeply: Parliamentary elections in 2002, the situation was not much better than in the past in 2004. And to speak the Ukrainian book, the situation is extremely lamentable today in the publication of Ukrainian - speaking products. And in general, it's normal when a new team comes in, and people from the old team resign. This is normal practice, world practice. And when they hold the chair with both hands, it's sad to look, it's not masculine, it's not appropriate. In this situation, I think it would be normal for me to write my own resignation application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u142	Michael Loboda, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u143	May I have the floor to Kravchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u144	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u145	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, it is clear that a decision must be taken, I draw your attention to the fact that we have already gone beyond the Rules, that we have "Razne" on the same basis, under the Rules. And the second. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there are walkers coming to see you now. I understand they want to sell the law on today. at the customs rate. I'm asking you not to do this. You don't need to suspect that you somehow have something to do with the money laid down in this law. Absolutely not. I ask you to abide by the procedure and to proceed under the Rules. I have amendments to this law, I'm going to put them on the committee, and when there is another readout, we'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u146	Yes, Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u147	Ukrainian Republic Party, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Lukyanenko Levko We have listened to a report that really tells us that a lot has been done, and I believe that John Chi has really done a great deal in his office. But there's still a huge problem for me as a citizen. TV has been turned into a screen, turned into a school of murder, violence, drug use, fornication, and so forth. And that's what we've been seeing for 10 years or more. What has been done to turn the screen into a school of good and justice rather than a screen of bad and bad, all that takes away the younger generation from the older generation? The other one. During the pre-election campaign, television and radio were really playing at the same gate, praising Yanukovich and humiliating the opposition candidate! Finally, the third problem is language.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u148	Dashutin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u149	Please give the word to Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u150	Leonid Chernewicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u151	Dear People's Deputies! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I know Chiya, our former colleague, and I can tell you with full responsibility, he's a moral person, he was the best manager in President Kuchma's Administration. What does Kuchma’s design and environment have to do with this? He did what he could. Just so you know, it was his Morals Act that went down here in the high hall. As far as I'm concerned, it's a man who doesn't take bribes. And I think it's a big mistake if we go about our emotions today, because he's a decent person, and let's just give our respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! The question and discussion of the question, the more precise discussion of the question, is over. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant approval for the release by the President of Ukraine, John Cizha, from the post of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine is being tabled. [[Registration number 7147]] [[13:16:33]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The faction, please. Our Ukraine - 79, communist - 0, Ukraine - 0, National Party - 8, SPI-21, SDPU - 0, Ukraine - 2, Block Timoshenko - 21, Democratic Ukraine - 0, will of the people - 0, Democratic initiatives - 0, Union -13, Center - 12, NDP, Republic - 0, non-fractional - 6. Let's do some more consultations on this, realizing how difficult it's going to be for the committee's head to work. Under such circumstances. Let's have a consultation. Yes. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for something different. Here comes the recording. Yes. Please put everyone on board so that the national MPs can be informed. Yes. Yes. Yes. Let's go, let's go. A total of 54 national deputies signed up for the performance. Let's go to. ? Yeah? It's going to be the next time we're going to propose such an innovation. We're taking an hour. Yeah, I'd like to ask the national MPs to focus -- that's 20 speakers. Well, we spent an hour, we agreed, we had different things. Anatoly Frost, non-fractional, please, George Manchulenko will speak next. Who? And he gives Boris Illlich the right to speak to Anatoly Frost, to prepare for the Manchulenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u153	Yes. Dear colleagues. On February 4th, with my press reprimand, I refuted the public in this room, gay people would exclude me from the comfaction, and once again I testify that I filed an application for an exit from the faction, so the latter could only satisfy or not satisfy my claim. So to rule out someone who's already gone out is at least a nonsence, and in this case a small-scale rear-gauge shift. I went on to explain the reasons for my decision, which was published in the press, and I'm sending you to the Village News and Literary Ukraine. The point is that since most of our center is required not to vote for the Prime Minister, and so that my exclusive vote does not violate fractional discipline, I do so in a nonfractional way. And as a Ukrainian communist, to the extent of my modest strength and capabilities, I will continue to work to promote the ideas of social justice and real, not decorative, people in the country. On that, it would seem. Don't freak out. It would seem that the incident would be exhausting. But this, as I was told, is what the same subordinate publishes about a month later. One day Nietzsche noticed, and I quote in Russian, "Trusts are always smart." Not always, and not all of them, twice the fake was published in my absence. This is the second time I've broken the text, and I don't call it names, so I don't want to cause unnecessary vibrations that would not benefit from party lava unity. However, when similar movements on the part of anyone, and first of all on the part of individuals affected by the Bonaparte complex, do not stop, I will have to use an analytical response to a much broader format regarding the causes of the variance. In the end, I'm going to say that the above-mentioned fakes don't work on me. As for the Communists of Moroz and Sinchenko, men of principle and dignity, who are not in the cabinets, but in the trenches of their electorate, similar landslides appear to be petty malice of the cheap.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u154	George Manchulenko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u155	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Ukrainian People's Party, Victor Yushchenka Block. Dear Head, dear colleagues. Now one of the current issues for our country's life is the development of a new draft Act amending the National Budget Act of Ukraine. As a member of a single-member district, I especially feel the problems that my district is now and generally Cherniewec region, and I think the country in view of the fact that the previous budget has been forced, and it has been very imperfect. I hope that now the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is drafting the Amendments to the 2005 State Budget Act, will be very responsible for how the country should live decently under the new budget, I hope that it will be accepted. And first of all, by defending the interests of my district, of my constituents, I would like to sharpen the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the problems that concern my constituency. It's half mountain. These are also mountain settlements and areas that are mountainous, and they suffer a lot of problems, primarily from underfunding. This is both the Putilsky and the Visinetsky, and partly the Watchtower. Both from unemployment, from low wages, and from underfunding to the budget. This applies to all budgeters without exception. I want to believe that the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will take these problems into account, not only of my constituency, but of the Chernivite region, because it is also a grant. And we're not going to have the problems that we've had, unfortunately, in the past. I also hope for sufficient State budget subsidies for investment projects and subsidies to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters and prejudices. Without this money, my constituency of 203, and in general the Chernivite region, it's going to be very difficult to run a normal farm. I also refer to this rostrum and to the President of Ukraine, because if the changes to the State Budget Act are adopted, he will sign this law. And I'd like those expenses first of all to be included in this draft Act amending the State Budget Act. This is true of many other areas, including the financing of national defence, and I am already speaking as the secretary of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence, because without it we will also have a sad picture in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I believe that such changes will be adequate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u156	Please. John the Rabbit, get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u157	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to environmental issues. You know, the degradation of the natural environment is going on, it's already become such a long process. And today we need to be very careful about every aspect of life. And so I want to draw your attention to a particular problem. Today, there are rumors, rumors, that the Regional Landscape Park of Granite Steps of Pobužya is on the northwest end of the Mikolai region, which is once again threatened with destruction. The point is, for 25 years now, the entire population of Ukraine has been fighting to submerge this South Bug area. We have to get out of the great historical value of this park, because there was a Garden Palace of Cossacks. We have to assume that this landscape park has great geological value. There they rise to the surface of the rock of still archaic times. And this is about billions, billions of years. There is a unique fauna and flora. And that's what they want to do in order to kind of put six or twelve blocks of the hydroaccumulation station into operation. Because, you see, the hydroaccumulating station has to take off the peak load for our energy. But they can be photographed in other ways: we can also light up our cities and villages at night, which is not done, and we can build other systems. However, someone stubbornly wants to destroy this historical and cultural and natural value for the Ukrainian people. We have to get out of the fact that 40 million years of this area has not been flooded with water, even though there have been floods. And now we want to water. So we're going to send our story, we're going to send our geology, we're going to send our nature. I'd like your support, distinguished national MPs, so that we can work to raise the status of this regional landscape park to the national level. Without such a promotion, we will not be able to preserve this unique natural area of history and so forth. So I ask you very, very much, when this question is more acute, to stand up for the public, to defend our nature. Let us not be distracted by the last few living parts of our nature. Remember, if we sink that area of Bug, we will lose the opportunity to provide ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u158	Please, Basil Nadrag, prepare Simonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u159	Respectable colleagues, respected TV players, respected fellow citizens! I would like to highlight some issues, including the problem of Russian-Ukrainian relations. In this context, consider how the fifth meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation took place. This meeting took place here in Kiev. And I have to tell you that there are, in any case, two trends on our part: one trend tells us that we must continue to develop our relations with the Russian Federation, and another point of view that tells us that we should go anywhere, but just say so, apart from Russia. I have to tell you that we can treat this as anything, but that we have historically been together for a very long time, that we have a very close economy: 30 per cent of Ukraine's external economic turnover is Russia, that, in fact, the question is that the balance of our positions should be more stable and therefore we should be more careful about these things. What has been considered on this Commission. Well, let me put it this way: I was a proponent of talking about the development of productive cooperation, so that we can talk about how bilateral cooperation will develop on various issues: economic, humanitarian, cultural, personal, because today a lot of people have family relations, and unfortunately the border has gone through the ban that was not needed. On the other hand, we have been very actively discussing and what we will consider at the future meeting, because by this point we have set the task of two Governments to report and, accordingly, tell us how the rights of our labour migrants in Russia and those from Russia are being ensured today. And here I have insisted that we put on the agenda the labour security of our migrants, that is, our citizens who have gone to Russia, the issue of the report of the Governments of both countries on how they are going and what they have come to the retirement of Ukrainian citizens who in due course worked in the regions of the Far North of the Russian Federation and their respective territories. That question was raised quite often. Regrettably, as the discussion at the last meeting of the inter-parliamentary commission showed, the Government, both on the one hand and on the other, has done nothing to secure the pension of our citizens who worked in Russia. The question depends. I therefore hope that, as part of the meeting to be held in May this year in Moscow, the Government and Russia, and Ukraine will provide us with an answer as to how the pensions of our citizens who have worked under difficult and difficult conditions will be resolved. I hope that our commission will speak in addressing this very important and, in my view, a fundamental issue if we are to speak about the protection of the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u160	Please, Simon Vladimir, the Communist faction. Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u161	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Vladimir Simonov, Western Ukraine, Ternopil, Communist faction We, the deputies of the Supreme Council, are asked by voters on various issues, to solve their problems, to help them in court cases, and so forth. But there may also be cases where you are approached by working groups for help, which already means that there is a labor conflict between manufacturers and owners. It is almost impossible to find a suitable job in my Ternopolska right now. In individual areas, between 40 and 141 people are employed in one job. It's Galician and Austria, and Poland has never been known. They get sick, young people move around the world for a better destiny. And it's not tens anymore, it's hundreds of thousands of hardworking people. And in Soviet times, there were many, enough, factories, factories, and new equipment, technology. Earnings were decent, social spheres, kindergartens, vacation homes at sea. The main pain of the productive life of the land is the Ternopil Combin factory, which was a highly organized flagman of agricultural machinery for a short time. After his criminal privatization, he was stretched out, stolen, he was in debt. The government lied to people about the wonderful future of the market economy, and it came out of the sand. I'll remind the radios that in Soviet time, 160 to 170 bereavement complexes per month came down from the conveyors of the combine factory, and during the present state of mindless power, 18 grand per year. Employee debt is over a million dollars. There's a conflict. Now for the news again. Sometime in the cabinets of the new nation’s team, there is the idea of buying vans abroad for more than 2,000 pieces, and of throwing away their combustible factories. And that, in my opinion, is where you can make money. We're not going to buy our own, we're going to overpay our own. Is that right? At the State Department? Is this concern for the people? I have been told by Ternopil’s meat - and - meat workers that since July 2004, they have not been paid their wages, and since October of that year the company has not been operating. He owns the concert combination. is in Kiev, the head of government. I've decided to sell the van one more time. I remember the numbers. The meatcombinate produced 100 tons of ready - to - produce meat during the Soviet period, and now workers are being thrown into a permissive, bankrupt enterprise. Wherever they didn't go, which authority they didn't go to, the result is zero. It's to advise me to answer these compatriots. Don't look for understanding in wealth owners, these enterprises were built by the whole Soviet people, and for the money of the execution of the state, that's national property. You have crafty businesses that have stolen these factories, you have to fight for their rights by all available methods, this right is given to our Constitution, to organize and maintain the right to work and a decent salary. Do not believe that someone will come, a good uncle, and correct and judge, and there will be money, and there will be earnings. It won't happen. The owner won't do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u162	Bunny, NDP faction, Republic. He'll be followed by Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u163	Victor Rabbit, town of Sevastopol. Respectable colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Many petitions from Sebastopols to us MPs force me to address you today, the distinguished people's deputies, to the President of Ukraine, the Government to speed up the consideration of an issue that is very important to my countrymen, to the Sebastopols, is today the issue of the Law on the City of Sevastopol. We all know that, more than nine months ago in this room, we decided to review in our first reading this law, which gives us the confidence that today gives us the right to self-determination and confidence in Sebastopols to live, to work and to work for ourselves and for the benefit of the State. And I would like to ask the faction leaders again today to support and expedite the consideration of this bill in our Parliament. And I can't help but stop at the numerous treatments of the veterans of the town of Sevastopol. Over 18 years in the town of Sevastopol, the construction of a museum complex of defence defenders and the liberation of the city of Sevastopol in 1941-1942 began. I don't want to remind you today of that glory, that feat, but it's relevant. Two months from now, Ukraine, together with all our Slav States, will mark a landmark date that is of worldwide historical significance - victory in the Great Homeland War. And it is very relevant that perhaps many years and 10 years later, this facility has been suspended. Our repeated appeals to the President of Ukraine, to the Government, have not been carried out to date. You have witnessed that in the first reading of the budget for the current year, a separate line has been introduced: the allocation of funds to complete this memorial complex, the only one in all the post-Soviet space. To ensure that this respect for the feat is restored to the defenders of our peoples. And I am addressing today from this high rostrum: to support that this anniversary year, there is no one left in our country, including this memorial of the humiliated, insulted, unattainable. Let's pay tribute to the heroism and courage of the older generation, the hero city.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u164	Thank you, Oleg Belarus, the faction of the Tymoshenko block, behind him the Headmaster. I can't see the head. Freedom to prepare. Please, Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u165	Mikhailo Wolintz, block of Julia Timoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen, recently at the parliamentary hearings, we discussed an extremely important subject: the situation of national cinematography, which is a painful part of our cultural and spiritual development. What we watch from television screens, in other words, leaves us with a desire for the best. Serials, so-called soap operas, murder, violence, drug addiction from foreign art films, are attacking our consciousness. As we look at all of this, the question is, Where are our domestic art films? For kids, for adults, for cartoons, documentaries? Is there no history in Ukraine, no outstanding personalities, and no stories for movies? No, the film industry is suffering, not from a crisis of design, but from the weak support of the state and the self - esteem of officials in the field of cinematography. Today, I'd like to make a statement to the Free Trade Union of the People's National Film Studio, about the situation in the film studio. We call on you to draw the attention of the whole society to what is happening in the National Film Studio for a long time. There is no such thing as a state cinema. This is the father of the acting CEO of Pridjsko and the film producer of Rodnjanski. Almost 80 percent of the film area has been leased, most of the underrated expert estimates have disappeared a unique historical library, destroyed film processing site, combined film clubs, machete shop, photos, makeup store, filmmaking workshop, music department, destroyed film studios, burned-down expensive decorations. In addition, structures that are monumental to architecture and are placed in the State Register are being destroyed. These management actions have led to the destruction of the entire production process. There is a gas station and a coffee house with billiards on the studio floor. Three floors of the hotel are rented. The salary of a film studio worker has not been paid for months. Brutally put on the streets by hundreds of experienced professionals. In fact, the current director of Advent was retraining the film studio to produce TV shows and New Year’s Moscow soap operas because they paid for it. A similar situation took place on the Yaltine Film Studio. You don't know who it belongs to, how it was sold, who gets dividends. This letter was accepted and signed at the general meetings of the February 13, this year. And so, dear friends, on the National Film Studio, the situation has been extremely difficult as a result of the abuse of the studio’s responsibilities, namely, the complete embezzlement of cinematography’s assets, the thoughtless destruction of the Ukrainian cinematography. Everything that has been created over the years by people to improve the quality of Ukrainian cinema has been stolen, destroyed, and the remains continue to be destroyed. As can be seen from the above, the actions of the film management are aimed at depreciating and further privatizing property and land known to the entire world of the National Film Studio. No less difficult situation with another Odessa film studio, which was closed by a decision of the government committee signed by then Prime Minister Mikli Azarov and privatized. So today it is up to us to see what kind of movies our offspring will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u166	Thank you. Loboda Mikhailo, Communist faction. To whom do you give the word? Please, Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u167	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Ukraine is going to the glorious anniversary of the 60th anniversary of our great victory. And of course, the entire people of Ukraine are waiting for the Government, from the Supreme Council, to do everything they can to improve the lives of the people. The only means of survival in these difficult conditions for older people is the pension for veterans. The people of Ukraine are waiting for the Supreme Council to adopt relevant laws aimed at improving the lives of these people. Indeed, the Supreme Council has taken a number of measures to meet this requirement of the people. In March last year, Ukraine's Money Income Index Act was adopted, which provided for the indexation of wages, pensions and scholarships, depending on price increases in the consumer market. If any of you have been on the market, you know that the prices go up every day, all the products. And on those pensions that our veterans get, the seniors get, they can't buy everything they need to live. I guess we should think about that. There is no implementation of the Law “On general government pension insurance”, on the increase in pensions due to wage increases. The salary is increasing and the pension remains at the same level. The question is: Why is there a Law and it is not being fulfilled? Similarly, the Law on Amendments of the Universal State Pension Insurance Act, which provides for additional pensions for years of service, which is more than 25 years for men and 20 years for women, is not implemented. Is there a law? And it's not being implemented. The people of Ukraine are waiting for the laws adopted by the Supreme Council to be implemented? In this regard, the well-respected Adam Ivanovich, it is appropriate to draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the fact that we need to strengthen our monitoring of the implementation of our laws, otherwise the work we do, is simply becoming declarative. I think that's what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u168	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. She'll be followed by Chubarov. He's handing it over to Culchinski. Who? Please, Alexander Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, radio listeners! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukrainian citizens should have the right not only to elect the President but also to demand him to serve his people unconditionally and unselfishly, to comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The December 1991 referendum confirmed the position of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine, as well as the position on our State’s non-block status. People are said to have made their choice. Why, then, does the President have the right to decide for himself where to join Ukraine? Something about a single economic space the President doesn't want to talk about. As for NATO and the EU, there are only conversations at all levels. And what will give the Ukrainian people that connection, nobody's talking about it. We've all come to the conclusion, dear friends, that in the past the people of Ukraine have made a bad choice about the presidents: both the first and the second President and the second and the second half have acted and made decisions not in the interests of the Ukrainian people. And what guarantee is that today's President, and now there's no mistake, and the President is acting and making the right decision. With regard to joining the EU and NATO, the people of Ukraine will feel a little later, and with regard to some of the President's actions, we can speak now. Today, there have been repeated accusations from this rostrum to the address of Attorney General Piscoon that he had sounded the investigation material prematurely. I certainly don't want to protect Piscoon, but for justice's sake, you have to say that President Yushchenko did it first. What the purpose of his actions is to show time, but the fact is true, and there are certain consequences. He's going to play by the president and a member of his team, Tajnibok, who was today speaking out of this rostrum with his proposals to arrest former President Kuchma. Well, wake up tomorrow and shoot Kuchma, what do we have? And that's what's left of it, covered in mystery. So I want to conclude by reminding President Yushchenk once again: we need to listen to people not only on the field when the Gringoles are singing, but also when they are speaking in substance and in the interests of the simple man of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, Chubarov gives the word to Kulchinski. He'll be followed by Chickanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I am forced to defend the peasants of Poltavščina, who have been exploited by the criminal authorities or simply plundered in broad daylight, taking either property pies or pies of land. This is what happened in the village of Suprunovka in the Poltava region. As a result of the criminal fraud of workers and pensioners of the Kondratenko Radhos, now the "Jerela" agro-company has actually been stolen from the pies. What's the "Jerela" agro-firm today? This multi-branch farm, which provides 400 jobs, has a branched network of animals, a processing base, and produces crops over 4,000 hectares [four thousand ha]. Only about 20 percent of cattle are cattle. And here's all that property today was in the hands of the Privatbank District Authority, whose principal is the citizen of Ciss, and the co-chairman of the government of VAT, Ukranafta, of agriculture. Crohnafta is a state-owned enterprise, and Jarello's agribusiness is a structural unit, because the state-owned company Skrnafta is a co-founder of "Jerella" agribusiness. So it's not clear how state property was in the hands of the director of the private bank of Cisia. It is necessary at the national level to consider the legality of the privatisation of the former council of the name Kondratenka, to return people to the property of the pies and allow the privatization of the labour community. [[Now the "Jerela" agro-firms.]] Today, "Jerelo" is a profitable enterprise and gives work, as I said earlier, to 400 employees. But the new illegal owners don't care. According to the Jerela Administration, the manager of the Privatbank has already warned the Jarrell workers about the release and elimination of the animal sector in the activities of the Jerell. The tragedy is that the entire land of the Jerela agro-firm is owned by peasants, it's scattered, and the property on this land, created by the peasants, belongs to the Privatbank. So again, "on our land, not on our land." And tragedy and farce. At the request of the villagers of the village of Suprunjka, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, who insists on giving appropriate instructions to clarify the situation of the privatisation of the property of "Jerela" and the return of the property to the workers of the village. It is also indignant that just after the victory of popular President Yushchenka, illegal owners began to free workers from their jobs in order to discredit the new authority. It's understandable, because it's the Privatbank district office that organized and financed criminals for illegal acts against peasants who voted for Yashchenka in all the villages. I hope that the new authorities will restore justice and allow the peasants to work on their land and manage their own good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u172	Sergey Chickanov, please, the Communist faction. Drachewski gives the word. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u173	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! The most interesting developments that have taken place in our State, in particular the interaction between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, which have been proclaimed by the new Government in terms of cooperation, have prompted me to come to this rostrum. At a time when the media are all promoting the unity of action of the new power team, the fight against corruption has spread and we are all looking forward to it. That the rich would start sharing with the poor, and I had to deal with the amazing facts of illiteracy and irresponsibility, all the way from the top officials. On 4 February, I sent a request to Prime Minister Vladimirovne Timoshenko for the illegal actions of the former Cabinet of Ministers, which he carried out as early as December 2003 in connection with the allocation without the decision of the Sevastopol City Council of 12 hectares of hunting ground on the Saric Cape in favour of the Ukrinvestbud State Enterprise, which was referred to as the “State Administration of Affairs” in the DUS Pro-nationality. [[There is such regulation number 1926.]] Articles 149, 150 and 151 of the Earth Code, as well as the Local Self-Government Act, were violated. The will and rights of voters in the town of Sevastopol were suddenly denied, and repeated appeals by the city council to the Cabinet of Ministers were ignored and unanswered. In an attempt to conceal illegal acts, the Cabinet of Ministers of the previous 8 October, by its Decree No. 716-R, repealed the previous order and handed over the same land to a limited society under “Real”.", as it is said, by noting its tracks. [[These 12 hectares]] After my treatment, justice would seem to prevail. The Cabinet of Ministers repealed the previous decision on 12 February this year and the land was returned to the Sevastopol City Council, the inhabitants of the town of Sevastopol. At the same time, Prime Minister Timoshenko made a public statement. And here's my answer for the signature of First Deputy Prime Minister Anatoly Kirilovich Kinaha, who says there's nothing going to happen to Deputy Chichanov because the ruling before that was passed without any rules of law and will therefore not be repealed. I mean, come on, you guys are! Who's setting whom up? I would like to protect Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, in advance of March 8th, from such a focus of her deputy, Deputy Prime Minister Kinaha. In truth, the left hand does not know what the right hand does. And I could forgive all of this to the First Vice Prime Minister if he were the first. But he was already the vice-premier and prime minister, and now he's the first vice-premier. How much can a fool do, respectable? What will be the attitude of the people? And in prison, I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u174	Yes, instead of Drachewski - Bondarenko, please prepare Sussi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u175	Gregory Bondarenko, Democratic Ukraine." MP's request, Prime Minister. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have received more than 10 references. About what? On this point, the management of the Kiev City Administration on 7 February 2000 of the Kyiv Shipping Company, with the aim of conducting travel on Dniper and the Black Sea, has transferred the steamboats Russia, Vatchenko, Rielski, Dobrolovov, Vučetić, Lesia Ukraine and Marshall Ribalko. Most steamboats were transferred to charters and each steamer’s rent each year received a measor of $250,000. At the same time, for incomprehensible reasons, the State Property Fund's order of 5 September 2003 confirmed the establishment of the Ukrainian State Property Fund in the Close Stock Exchange Company of the Volzko-Dinprovska Shipbuilding Company. A partner of the Ukrainian side in the company was VAT "Moscow River steaming", whose leadership is negative. The Ukrainian party to the Society’s statutory fund, given the name of the steamboats, without carrying out a proper valuation of their value. The market value of each of the seven steamboats ranges from $4.5 million to $6 million. And in the statutory capital of society, they're from $400 to $800. A nightmare and a mess, you might say. In the subsequent government share of 48.2 percent, VAT was sold to Moscow River Sailing for about seven million dollars. In November 2004, this river steamer sold only one Russian steamer to an American company for about seven million dollars. One. In accordance with article 86 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I ask that the reasons and legality of the Ukrainian party's participation in the "Wolz-Dniprovska Shipbuilding Company" be determined without delay. The other one. Set the equivalent of the statutory share of the Ukrainian side of the market value of the seven steamboats transferred. In the event of a confirmation of illegal actions concerning State property, take steps to return it to state property and initiate the responsibility of officials to the law enforcement authorities for violating the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u176	Please, Aunt Drought. He will go after her, and Boki will pass on the word to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u177	Aunt Zasuha, 94th constituency. I want to start my speech with a short anecdote that's very relevant to the situation I'm in. An officer approaches the sergeant and gives him a delicious slap. When a sergeant asks, "Why?" He says, "If I knew why, I'd kill you." Today, law enforcement and some newly appointed officials, without any reason or evidence of my involvement in any wrongdoing, are trying to put pressure on me, my assistants and the environment. At the beginning of February 17, 2005, about 50 UBZ employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the special unit "Berkut" entered my private property rights in the village of Kovalivuka without any legal reason, and they cheated and removed documents. Then, after a parliamentary inquiry, my statement at the press conference came from February 18 to 19, 2005, about 23 minutes later, unknown persons who had been represented by the colleagues of the U.K.O.P.O. in Kiev tried to enter a residential building in the village of Kovalivka, where I and my family, who belonged to us on property rights, were trying to speak to me in person for the purpose of urgent need. Which led these people to my private residence at midnight and who gave them the right to try to get into my apartment, to this day is a mystery to me. After these attempts to put pressure on me, the law enforcement officers began to pressure my consulting assistant, first using his crude physical strength during the search in the proper house, and soon thereafter he was summoned to the Vynitsa B.S.A. for the purpose of testing information about his possible involvement in the terrorist attacks in a taxi two years ago. Such a coincidence does not seem to me to be an accident. I also find it hard to understand why the newly appointed governor of the Kyiv region of Jętjak, who, by the way, has not yet obtained parliamentary powers, is allowing himself to be interviewed in the press, in which he openly accuses me of being involved in the drug business. In Ukraine 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] of land is sown annually with oil poppy, but somehow Mr. Yultak is confident that it is the agro-firm "The Dawn", which I am the founder of, that he is engaged in the illicit cultivation and distribution of poppy straw. Before spreading these gossips that have been distributed to the designated official for six months, I ask the law enforcement authorities to finally place all the dots above and above. I insist on a full-blown investigation into this provocation, this screaming militia saviour. This is also what agribusiness workers demand, threatening to resort to mass protests against the harsh interference of law enforcement agencies in their lives. In this regard, I would like to address you, honourable deputies, to support me in my desire to put the right point in this matter and to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u178	Thank you. Please have Mikola Melnik, prepare for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u179	Honorable colleagues, speaking the language of a chess player, are now in a difficult situation. The country seems to want to help the village, and because of the situation, it seems that it cannot receive the assistance offered. The collapse is so wide and deep that it does not reach out and reach out to the government or to the government. I'm asking some problems because of this failure of question, if so. Yushchenko and Timoshenko will hear. First. Banks that decide to lend to a rural producer are based on a decree issued by the National Bank of Ukraine at 279 of July 6, 2000 to approve the formation and use of mortgage assets from possible losses in bank credit operations. According to this decree, which the current head of the National Bank considers to be premeditated and illegal, banks are mortgaged 3-4 times. With a new, unconventional market situation and not an inadequate price for fuel, oil, and grain, socialists ask questions to banks to be reduced twice. This will enable hundreds of jobs to be created, land to be worked, and Ukraine’s budget to be filled. The other one. The state of collateral transactions with grain in the DAC of "The Bread of Ukraine" is of great concern. Today, according to article 47 of the Ukrainian Grains and Market Act, the term for repurchase by agricultural producers of grain ends. Taking into account the low price situation in the grain market, the lack of circulation costs in the peasants, and the increased need for them to carry out the whole harvest work package, the Socialists propose to introduce changes to the law as an exception and to set the deadline for the repurchase of grain in 2005 for agricultural producers by May 1, 2005. Third. The state owed traders billions of dollars for non-payment of VAT. If the government is going to pay off the debt to these traders, we're going to offer the money to buy the grain from the peasants who are going to have the trades, and the peasants are going to have the opportunity to run the sowing campaign. And the last. It's time for the Minister's office to end the rhetoric about the wish demonstration. These sweet words of hope now begin to sound upon the souls of peasants, as if to lose hope for good. Low prices in the grain market, at which today are two or three times lower than self-sustainability, and from here the lack of wages for peasants is capable of espousing public depression, which has a very large effect. Therefore, it is not good for Yushchenko to take delight in her victory in the orange revolution, but it is time for her to descend to the sinful earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u180	Thank you. Mikhailo Kosov. Get ready for Sith.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u181	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine." Dear voters, last year's presidential election, I have had to go to many areas of Ukraine, including mining. The impressions of these meetings were very painful and even frightening. I had to go to areas where mines were closed, and they are very often like a complete ruin. To this day I have received your petitions, especially I would like to say, if you listen to me, to the miners of Novomirgost of Kirovograd region, which I have sent the Prime Minister of Ukraine a question of the MP's question that your New York mine has indeed been shut down without any technological conditions, and it could still work today. And your demand to rebuild this mine, as explained by the experts, is absolutely justified. The State program for the restructuring of the coal industry, which was adopted under the leadership of Leonid Kuchma, proved to be absolutely destructive because workers were released in large numbers at the time of the closure of the mines, and the many millions of state aids for the creation of new jobs flowed into the pockets of the authorities. Likewise, I received an invitation from a limited East Resources Society from the city of Torres, a mining town in the Donetsk region. They have already registered their business, and they have repeatedly returned to the State Committee of Natural Resources to obtain licences for the mining of coal in those mines that are now closed. They can guarantee the emergence of new jobs, they can provide the raw materials needed for the state. But as they say, they were refused, "because we couldn't afford a license for a certain fee." So, I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Prime Minister: look at this problem, it's a very important problem, and if you solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u182	Yes, thank you. See, I can't see. Then it's the miner. Get ready for him instead of Mihowich Simonka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u183	Eugene Gornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Tomorrow, March 5, the fifth anniversary is fulfilled in the village of Bilogorst under Lvivov: In a battle with the special division of the NKVS, UPA commander Roman Suhević was killed. bitterly, but in the fourteenth year of the new Ukrainian state, neither this army nor its commander remain unrecognizable by this state, remain in the role of its exorcisms: "Guydamaks are not warriors. Thieves, thieves." But when Shevchenka said, "Bresh, O people," he said, "There will be no robber for the holy cause." Historians with a world name have long proved that UPA fought in the years of World War II, and ten years after it ended, it fought in Ukrainian territory against German, Russian, Polish, and other invaders of Ukraine, while exhibiting outstanding heroism and self - sacrifice. The army Charles de Gaulle said would not be occupied with such an army. But despite all that, our convening of the Supreme Council does not solve this issue, and the order of the day of this session is not one of the bills on this subject: neither Slava Stecko, nor Kendzior Kostinuk, nor Yvchenka - Gournik - is included. But I want to remind even the biggest Ukrainianophobics that you have become members of the Supreme Council of Independent Ukraine, thanks to the UPA. After the stormy events of the orange revolution, the problem was somewhat forgotten, but it did not become less relevant. Because there wouldn't be an UPA fight -- there wouldn't be this orange revolution. And I am responsible for saying that without such recognition, the modern Ukrainian State will never happen, in a Ukrainian society without it will never be consolidated. What's more, our army, the police, the BSS and other power structures without such recognition will never become Ukrainian. I would like to remind both the President of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine: by going to Parliament, you promised to solve this problem. I also remind the Head of the Supreme Council of Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina: while in Johno-Frankivsky, you also promised this in 2002. I remind the leader of the parliamentary faction of SDPU: you have also promised this in our countries. Therefore, I propose that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister Tomenka, reinstate the work of the relevant commission so that it can finally come to the right conclusions. I propose that Volodymyr Lithuania, all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, include this issue in the session and make a positive decision by restoring historical justice. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. And please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, instead of Mihovich Simonenko, the Communist faction. After him, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u185	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I learned from the information sources that some of the forces that operate in the interests of a foreign state, in particular the United States, are working among former and current colleagues of Ukrainian intelligence personnel and agencies, with the participation of civil society activists, who were an active participant in the so-called, orange revolution. In addition, the recruitment of Ukrainian citizens is in fact under way and work is being done among the Ukrainian intelligence and the Ukrainian diaspora in Russia with the aim of disrupting the opposition in Russia and increasing the opposition between the Slovenian peoples. The real patriots of the people of Ukraine reported that it is the pro-American lobby that is behind this semi-spy activity, the tactical goal of which is to use agents to influence social and political life in the Russian Federation and Belarus. Ukraine's de facto after Poland is transformed into a fort-post to promote the interests of the Pacific in the Eurasian region, in a way that's much more cynical than the most filthy cold-war receptions. These games of the pro-American lobby clearly see the strategic plan of the American ideologist of the Cold War of Zbigniew Bzezhinski -- to oppose Ukraine, to sow dissension in the Slavic community at any cost. Ukrainian citizens try to use it shamefully for other people’s purposes. The consequences can be most tragic. Russia and Belarus are on fire. Only suicides use their hands to set fire to the house of a historic neighbor with a torch that was put into their hands by a Zaccan uncle. Clearly, a Ukrainian house can also be set on fire. Ukrainians are not suicidal. In view of the foregoing, we ask the President and head of the Ukrainian Security Service to take steps to end the foreign illegal impact on Ukrainian citizens in the framework of the above-mentioned public campaign. A person who, in the interests of a foreign state, violates Ukrainian and international legislation must be established and held accountable by a society formed in Ukraine that should be Ukrainian and not American. It should be peaceful and civilian, not part of the CIA's wars. To guarantee this is the responsibility of the President of Ukraine, and we can see how those who have come to power today are capable of serving the interests of the hands of the Pacific.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Korsakov gives the word to Komar. Please. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u187	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! This week, citizens of Ukraine are facing up to normal human concepts of morality, a spectacle called “the completion of the investigation of the Georgia Gongadze case”. It is of particular concern that the top officials of States, in particular the President, who is a person of our country, as well as the Attorney-General, have acted in this regard to ensure that the rule of law is not violated. On Tuesday, Yushchenko, the next day, Piscun reported a “sensation” report on the completion of the criminal investigation into the death of Georgia Gongadze and the arrest of alleged journalist killers. [[& Tiles]] However, did those who initiated the President's statement not realize that he had made such a categorical statement in his mouth, thereby effectively substantiating him by placing the leader of the country as dependent on developments during the investigation of the case? And if the consequence comes to a different conclusion than the ones that are sounded, what then? Following the intervention of the President and the Chief Prosecutor's Office, there were more questions from society than answers. First of all, is it possible in the rule of law to declare a successful conclusion of an investigation at a time when the case has not yet been brought before a court. Is it not the rush to uncover a loud case that the current authorities wish to justify the trust of foreign partners and at any cost to fulfil the West promise? Finally, by morally using human misery for political, career purposes. People demand honest answers to these questions from the new authorities, who promised to be honest and transparent. I will remind those who speculate on the tragedy of the Gongadze family that the international reputation of our country depends largely on the legal integrity of the investigation of the case, as well as other resonant cases, and on the impartial treatment of them in court. Only a professional investigation will answer the concerns of society. If the names of the perpetrators of the crime are to be named, the court must decide, regardless of the persons. And sentences without a trial are in itself a crime. Thank you for your attention. And I'd like a minute to pass on to Korsak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u188	Yes, please, a minute of Korsakov. The microphone, or the rostrum, see how. Talk to me, it's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u189	Korsakov, 50th constituency, city of Enakievo. On 16 September 79th, an underground nuclear explosion of 0.33 kiloton was carried out at the Juny Communar Mine of the Ordjonikidze Coal Production Association at a depth of 903 metres. The experiment was called "Clevar". The purpose of the experiment is to degass coal layers and reduce the probability of sudden carbon and gas emissions. Since 2002, the Young Communicator mine has been on dry hold, i.e. the draining of water from the mine has been fully produced, but a change in the conservation method is planned for the so-called, wet-water mine through the "Beautiful October" mine. Through a comprehensive study of the study, the city's leadership is categorically opposed to wet conservation, which can lead to an irreversible process of environmental degradation in the city and the region. I understand it's a rather expensive method.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u190	Yes, please, Shurma, the faction of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u191	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Mr. President of Ukraine, I appeal to you as the guarantor of the Constitution with the urgent request to ensure that your appointed officials meet the high-level requirements of the 78th article of the Constitution on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. Sad to say, today, many petitions to Dustenk and Zinchenko about the need to follow the letter of the law and to impose parliamentary powers do not produce any results. Neither does your personal example, nor the Prime Minister's example, nor the order of the orange court regarding equality before the law, nor their own promises of honest service to the law and to the Ukrainian people. As for Zinchenko and Dustenka, they don't take pleasure in social democrats. In fact, Zinchenko was expelled from the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine for violating the requirements of the Zinchenko Charter and Dusty was expelled from the SDPU (o). [[united]] Today, we have once again made sure that our actions are correct. The offender is always a violator. If they had not respected the statute before, the Constitution is unwritten for them today. And then, Mr. President, please, make these gentlemen say yes to the Constitution. Because slogans are only worthwhile when they are put into life. It takes at least three minutes to write the application, but your leaders will be able to stretch those three minutes a month. Perhaps they lack authority rather than positions. The same Zinchenko today and the Secretary of State, and Vice Speaker, are not just enough to serve as Vice President. Although, as Secretary General of the National Security and Defence Council, this post is de facto secured for Prashenko, Zinchenko will be second again. Mr. President, it is insane when the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine manages the budgetary process, retaining the headship of the budget committee. Even the friendship with you cannot justify such a position. This is not normal when the secretary of state, requiring the heads of the district authorities to comply with the law, rudely and cynically violates it. Are you, Mr. President, comfortable on your frequent trips to Europe accompanied by these violators of the Constitution of Ukraine, speaking there from the high court about the establishment in Ukraine of the rule of law. I would also like to remind you of the declared fight against corruption. Refusing to meet the constitutional requirement to impose parliamentary powers on my conviction does not give the authorities the right to speak about their virtues. Both Xinchenko and Dustenko are paid in two cases at once. Why should they have a salary in organs where they don’t work? And is this not an example of corruption? Mr. President, I'm asking you to put an end to this commotion. Let Zinchenko, the Duster, be sure to determine the place of work, not the extension of powers that will always be few for them. Mr. President, at least say 78 articles of the Constitution, yes. For your fellow workers, judging by all, simply lack the power of will, spirit, and desire to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u192	In connection with the decision of the Pecher District Court, I give the floor to a member of the Cologne.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On September 24, 2004, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from this rostrum, I made some comments to the address of the then leader of the "Our Ukraine" faction, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, and the faction of "Our Ukraine". Who were viewed by them as mistrustful and as having insults and slanders. In this regard, Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko applied to the Pecher District Court of Kiev for the protection of honor, dignity and business reputation, the recognition of popular information and its reproof. The decision of the Pecher District Court of Kiev on January 21, 2005 satisfied the lawsuit. In this regard, I offer my apologies to Victor Andrievich Yashchenka and to the faction "Our Ukraine". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-03-04-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The following week, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. On March 15th, the plenary session of the government of Ukraine will be held to discuss "The state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social, medical and pension security of war veterans and the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945." And since you and I will not be meeting properly until March 8th, allow me, dear colleagues, on your behalf, to welcome everyone with the feast of spring, with the celebration of the woman-mother, the woman-loving and the woman-daughter. May the Heat of Happiness, in the spring of spring, your destiny, the dear womanhood of Ukraine! At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
