ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:04:06]] There are 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, two words in order of information. A meeting of the Conciliation Board of factions and groups was started at 2:15 with the participation of the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. The sitting continues. It's going on, I'd say, constructive conversation, looking for ways out of the situation that we've been talking about in the last few days. We'll continue the discussion with you now. I can't see, you can see it better than I can. I don't see him at all, so read. I think you all went to school, you can read. Let us continue our consideration of matters of the order of the day. You and I have a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code, registration number 1038-1. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Works, Hara Vasil Georgievic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today we are considering a unique bill, which was written by three parties to the social partnership - trade unions, the State, employers under the auspices of the International Labour Organization. It is unique and the procedure for consideration. On 11 December 2003, the Labour Code was adopted on first reading. A working group with the participation of the three sides of the social partnership was immediately established in our committees, and the first meeting was held on 18 December. The working group met three times a week and four times a week at the end of the working group. Contrary to the Rules, while understanding the importance and complexity of working on the Labour Code, the Committee extended the adoption of proposals not only from legislative actors but also from social partners for up to three months. In fact, proposals were made from the people's deputies until the meeting of the last Committee on 23 June 2004. The table has been reviewed and, frankly, what they are doing to date. Upon completion of the work on harmonization with the representatives of the social partners, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the Labour Code in second reading, except for Book No. 6, which is transferred to third reading. A table of amendments on page 821, with 2899 proposals by actors of the law of the legislative initiative, was presented to the people's deputies. The Committee was then requested by the All-Ukrainian Trade Unions and Trade Unions to transfer the book to the third reading. The third book, chapter three, of the fourth codex. Following that request, the Committee considered 3 November 2004, and it was decided to grant the request of the trade union party. In mid-November, the Committee received a decision from the Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise, proposing that the first, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh chapters of the Third Book be included in the third reading. The same proposals were made by all, without exception, the All-Ukrainian Employers' Associations. The Committee again, but at its meeting on 12 January 2005, considered these issues and decided to accept the decision and to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the Labour Code on second reading, referring to the third reading of chapters one, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and fourth books in general. Given that all contentious issues relating to the bill between the parties to the social partnership are transferred to the third reading, ILO experts confirm full compliance with the Labour Code, the Convention of the International Labour Organization. The Committee requests support for the adoption of the Labour Code on second reading and third reading of what I have already said. I want to point out two more moments. Since the adoption of the table to the Supreme Council, which was already in 2004, the Labour Code has been almost completed, some legislative changes have been made, in particular with regard to victims of Nazi repression and so forth. They will all be taken into account in the technical finalization of the Labour Code. In addition, there was one technical error that, and I want to tell you, both for the record and for you to know. The Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council made a comment on the recognition of the employment book as a non-binding instrument. I have made a legislative proposal to part two, article 62 in this sense, by providing for the documents submitted when accepting a workbook, excluding part three and parts four and five, respectively, to be considered parts three and four, articles 62. Also in Part 1 delete, article 63 deletes the words “at the request of the worker” as well as the employment book. However, because of the fact that these articles are persistent. were moved to the second paragraph, unfortunately, the text of which was first read remained. Therefore, I ask that you take into account this amendment which I have made and which the Committee has adopted and which I have now announced. I would also like to emphasize that the Labour Code is balanced in second reading and any changes can lead to imbalances in labour standards. I request the people's deputies to accept this text of the comparative table, on which I repeat, a working group composed of trade union rulers, employers of the Cabinet of Ministers and approved it. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u3	Yes. Vasil Georgievich, thank you. Dear colleagues, I think you've come to realize that this is the support group of Vasil Georgievovich, who wants us to adopt the Labour Code with you today. Yes, perhaps we will continue to do so. Who doesn't have one, I'll remind you what this document looks like. Let us walk in an articleistic way, but surely so that we do not waste our time, let us do as the Rules require. We have two decrees of the People's Deputies-- this is a decree number 1038-1.P1 and 1038-1. P 2 decrees made by the national MP Borschevsky and Bondarczuk on the inadmissibility of the Labour Code. So we're probably going to do this in a way that we're now going to listen to the people's deputies of Borschevsky and Bondarczuk, we're going to vote for the inadmissibility, we're going to make a more precise proposal for the inadmissibility, and then we're going to work on it. Yes, please, Bondarchuk. The draft law on the inadmissibility of the draft Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich. In a situation that coincides with the consideration of the Labour Code, we cannot now continue to consider this issue. The question is very serious, you've drawn attention to perhaps more than two thousand amendments and now it's proposed, and then you see a group of deputies protesting other issues, and they won't be involved in a serious review of the Labour Code, which is basically the Constitution for most people living on their payroll. Therefore, in this situation, we propose that this issue be removed, in large accounted for, the preparation of a balanced document, the submission of all chapters to the second reading immediately, all books of the Labour Code in order to balance the interests of trade unions and employers, should be voted on simultaneously in one day. To date, it is proposed to vote on those parts, those books where trade union concessions have been made and employers' concessions to vote in the third reading in such a situation cannot be considered, so I and the Communist factionists also block work in the Supreme Council in order not to vote against the anti-national anti-work code.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u5	Alexander Vasilovich, what your proposal is. You have an inadmissibility order. You're proposing to postpone the discussion, that's a completely different offer. First. And second. We can't vote because there's no such draft regulation. And your third offer is not to work at all. After all, out of three suggestions, you have to cut one out. Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u6	Adam Ivanovich, the proposal is formulated. To date, and even in two weeks' time, it is impossible to break the whole document, which is by nature a compromise between the workers' trade unions and the employers' side. This should be some balance, an agreed balance in the working group, and should be expressed and voted in such a way. To date, there is no balance. It's just not possible to view it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! We will act in accordance with the Rules. In accordance with the Rules, I must first put to the vote draft provisions on non-admissibility. I'm voting on the draft Resolution 1038-1P1, which Borschewsky wrote, on the inadmissibility of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Please vote. [[16:15:44]] For-95 Not accepted. The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 10, the communists are 55, the Ukrainian People's Party is 2, the People's Party is 1, the Socialists are 24, the Timoshenko Block is 1, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, the Social Democrats are 0, the only Ukraine and the Democratic Ukraine is 0, the Industrialists, the Entrepreneurs are 1, the Democratic Initiatives and the Union is 0, the non-fractional is 1. [[I'll read "for"]] We have another colleague, a draft inadmissibility order, introduced by National Deputy Bondarczuk, registration number 1038-1P2, on the inadmissibility of the Labour Code. Please vote. [[16:16:47]] For-89 The factions. "Our Ukraine" - 9 Communists - 50, "The Regions of Ukraine" - 5, National Party - 1, Socialist - 21, Block Timoshenko - 1, Ukrainian People's Party - 0, Social Democrats - 0, "The only Ukraine", "Democratic Ukraine", Party "Industry, Entrepreneurs", Democratic Initiatives, "The Union" - zero, non-fractional - 2. Be careful, fellow believers, there was another suggestion, even though it was not drafted into the draft decree, but in view of the situation, let us put it. There is a proposal by the national deputy Bondarchuk, however, to postpone the consideration of the Labour Code. Please vote on the transfer of this question. Take down the vote, please. Take down the vote, please. Five minutes of motivation, please sign in. Yes, please, five minutes of motive. For what we should do with the Labour Code - Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u8	I understand, of course, that you are looking for a way out of the situation that has arisen around this very important document, but moving the discussion will not solve this issue. Perhaps we should address the issue of sending him to the committee for further work, at least those chapters of this multifaceted bill, where there are problems that we have to solve, because this is a moving document, this is a constitution on labour legislation in our country. We must accept it in such a way that the mosquito does not bow its nose to it. So I don't think that your proposal, even though I always appreciate you looking for a way out of the situation, but that it will solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u9	Thank you, Hennady Vasilovich. Please, Nosenko Mikola, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u10	Mikola Nosenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to my colleague Cibenko Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u11	Thank you, Mikola Petrovich. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, Cibenko. The Labour Code is a document of a particular kind where there are three positions: employers, the Cabinet of Ministers and trade unions, who have to speak on behalf of workers. So I'd like to testify to the situation in a way that today they're trying to turn in workers, people, workers to put employers into slavery, and the unions are going through with it. And I'd like to tell some more of my colleagues who want to be called colleagues. Thus, opposition is determined, not by belonging to the trough, but by voting on such fundamental issues. Therefore, if you are close to the interests of people of work, sit down and vote against the adoption of a similar year of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u12	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u13	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the document is indeed very complex and very difficult, and requires a link between harmonization and many other normative instruments. For example, that such a worker is 16 years old, that such a job reservation is complete and employable through the employer's envelopes, that it is not possible to pay less living minimum to date if we have not yet paid the minimum wage, that such finding of an employee's workbook in the event of his dismissal or record is nothing. What a report on the absence of a person on leave is a violation of human rights. So what am I talking about? Indeed, there are many issues that we need to link to the legislation in force. Of course, we need to move forward. But I think we're not mature today, and he's not ready to see it today. It would therefore be a better option to reconvene the Conciliation Commission, both trade unions and employers, and representatives of the Rule of Law Committee in order to link them to the legislation that has been in force to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u14	Catherine Vaszczuk conveys the word of Konovaluku Valerius Ilchi. Please, it's Konovaluka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u15	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I think that in the situation today in the Hall, I am in solidarity with my colleagues who are standing next to the rostrum today, of course, we cannot consider the Labour Code. But we have been working on it for five years, and there has been no meeting with the conciliation commissions and groups. Therefore, I think that the situation in which the workers today are in a semi-random situation, which in fact cannot assert their rights in the courts, because the legal framework is not in line with today's realities. I want to tell you that Ukraine is the last State of the former Union to have no modern Labour Code. And the question today. Look at the amendments, my friends, at all critical points there are amendments that have been rejected by the committee, on which I will insist and demand their support in Parliament. That's why we have to. This document is under consideration. Then it will be very serious that we will protect truly ordinary people today, create motivation for work, make it possible for a person to achieve his or her standard of living and needs through his or her own work.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u16	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u17	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, All-Ukrainian association of land and property owners. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. The Labour Code, which is before Parliament, is a copy of the Earth Code, which, after its adoption, gave birth to a thousand problems in the countryside. Thus, the faction of the Socialist Party is out of the question: It is not possible to consider such a Labour Code in Parliament. He needs to be sent for work, he needs to be well worked, and he needs to be consulted with the labour groups, like we're doing in a weak reform that's being carried out in the state, about, but in a different direction, we need to do it in relation to the discussion of this Labour Code. We cannot say that today’s draft Labour Code can protect a person’s work. And that's why we, the faction of socialists, say we should do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u18	Yes, dear colleagues, be careful, as it were, that I would like to reflect on the ideas that have been made, the suggestions, and we would be determined on them. I fully support Hennady Josephovich Widow, who rightly said that a growing transfer would not do anything. The only thing I'd like to remind you is that this is not my proposal, this is the proposal of the national MPs that I'm putting to the vote. And as for your proposal, I'm totally in solidarity with her, and we're also going to put her to the vote. Because a simple transfer, we're going to come back to this situation again, that is, a simple transfer -- not today, we're not looking at, next week or once, again, the same thing is that we're adopting half of the codex in the second reading, but not finally. The second half of the codex is passed on to the third reading, without even voting on the articles. I mean, there's going to be extra work again, I'm sorry. I completely agree with those who propose: do we have to go out with the Labour Code agreed upon so that we can look at it definitively, because we break it apart -- well, what about the fact that we're going to accept one part of the second reading? It won't be cold, it won't be hot, it won't be there, we'll wait for two or three books to agree on. And that's why probably the rights and those who ask the committee to work on a key with which to go on final decision-making, and the decision will be for the Supreme Council. And the third option: since the committee made the proposal, is the decision, the committee's decision to consider it today is one part in the second reading, the second part has been moved to the third reading. So three of her proposals, the honourable colleagues that I'm going to put to the vote, and we're going to figure out from the bottom of this document. And once again, the first proposal is to move the question forward. The second proposal is for the committee to finalize the Labour Code and prepare it for final adoption, as they say. And third, to view today as proposed by the profile committee. In that order, I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare, Your Honor, for the vote. Who, in order to postpone the consideration of the employment code of Ukraine, please vote. [[16:27:07]] For 118 For transferring 118 national deputies. Factions: "Our Ukraine" - 0, Communist faction - 54, "Ukraine" - 7, People's Party - 12, SPU - 26, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democrats - 0, "The One Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 9, PPU - 1, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Union" - 4, "The Postfaction - 1. [[United]] I'm betting on a second sentence, which, let me make a statement and my own opinion, is perhaps the most reasonable thing to do, to assign the committee of profile to prepare for the second reading the final version of the Labour Code, agreeing on all these problems that are not yet agreed upon today. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[16:28:14]] For 222 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 2, Communists - 54, "Ukraine" - 35, People's Party - 29, Socialist Party - 25, Block of Timoshenko - 19, Ukrainian People's Party, Social Democrats - 0, "The only Ukraine" - 8, "Democratic Ukraine" - 19, "Industry and Entrepreneurs" - 11, "Democratic Initiatives" - 3, "The Union - 5, non-fractional - 12. You can see that the factions that didn't give a single vote ask again. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? Please vote. [[16:29:12]] For 269 We're going back. So I put it to a vote. Who is in charge of giving the task of preparing the Ukrainian Labour Code for second reading, agreeing on all those positions that are not yet agreed upon today. Please vote. [[16:29:44]] For 291 Decision taken. We ask the profile committee to prepare for the second reading of the already agreed edition. What procedure? Sign the procedure, five minutes. Please point to the table, Bespallian, behind him, Slavuta.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. But, I think, really, in this case, perhaps in some other way came up with an optimal solution, even though I don't understand why it was a vote, he was still on the committee. And if I understand correctly, and I think it's right, that means we're preparing it for second reading in full terms with all the articles and so on. This, of course, will allow us to work on quality. All I have is a proposal for a profile committee. Because it's not a very narrow document, it's one that applies to all the workers, and all the workers are working Ukrainians and those looking for work. It is to be included in the drafting of this law, as the widest public organization, trade unions, and deputies of various committees. Otherwise we'll just walk around and never make a decision if the code is only cooked on the committee itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u20	Please, Slata.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u21	I'd like a word with you, Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u22	Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u23	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectable compatriots! Sadly, we are now witnessing the events of 15,000 of our fellow countrymen. Today, they have expressed their position on the streets of Kiev during the day. We can do nothing but defend the freedom and constitutional rights of our citizens today. That is why we now claim to block the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we will stand until we are heard by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u24	Nestor Ivanovich, the community can hear you, please, Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Of course, for every national MP as well as for every person who comes to work, it is quite expensive. And it seems like we've stopped hearing each other well. The Conciliation Council would still like the Conciliation Council to ultimately produce that algorithm for the conduct of various political powers in the Supreme Council and ensure the normal work of the national MPs. We're wasting time in the daytime, and people have very important laws ahead of them, and the Supreme Council doesn't work effectively. Dear colleagues! Let us listen to each other’s urgent needs and begin our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u26	Please, Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u27	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear friends! I think today our codex has not only passed because the rostrum is blocked, but because there are many problems that are not solved. And I'm here to support my colleague Boris Bespalogo, who actually said that today the Council itself can't get through such a document. And so if we both voted and sent him to work on it, that doesn't mean that the committee should be responsible. The hope of really getting the public involved, working groups, is that we can make contact with other employers, and those who are hired to work, and abroad, to reconcile our positions. I propose that this code be shown in the Council of Europe, where we are members, in order to have the conclusions of the Council of Europe, and to work on this document in a fruitful manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u28	Please, Andrew School, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u29	Thank you. Before I give my word to my colleague, I turn to the Communists. Well, take off your password, great, nice poster, a little not-so-painted, but please take it off. Please pass the word to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u30	Please, Sergei Sassa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u31	Thank you, Andrey. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In view of the situation that is taking place, please consider, first of all, the issue of amending the Customs Tariff, number 7181. The questions are discussed in the profile committees, agreed with the manufacturers, with the importers, all positions of the national deputies are included in the proposed edition. I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u32	Please, George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u33	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It seems to me that the actions of the representatives of the so-called opposition are crossing every line in the session room. Well, at least there are basic requirements for the conduct of deputies and there are basic requirements for the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since the morning of the meeting of the Conciliating Council, they have agreed, made appropriate compromise decisions, and they have been voted in the session room. It's like they've already agreed on all the points of view and they've come together in some compromising way, but it's still going on in the session room. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to either announce a break and make a compromise decision again, or get to full-time work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u34	Yes. Dear colleagues, let us sum up our conversation. It was mainly about the previous issue that we voted on, the Labour Code. Being completely supportive of the suggestions of colleagues: Bespalogo and Šibko, I would just like to remind ourselves that our right to involve whom we want to involve, but the right of legislative initiative has only a national MP and therefore, of course, it is the responsibility of the Committee, not public organizations, to submit a bill to the second reading. Of course they'll have to reconcile these positions and so on -- it's no doubt. They did so with a certain part. Unfortunately, we almost heard no more than the last sentence, but what should we do next, we heard two more specific suggestions: Sergey Sas now suggests that we consider the problems related to second reading regarding customs tariffs, and Gregory Manchulenka’s proposal suggested that we look for a way out of the situation we were in. Please, Hara, on the last question, and we will now determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I want you to listen carefully to the Committee's defence and work and the Labour Code itself. It is very strange for me to hear such statements by the people's deputies concerning the assessment of the status of the Labour Code and the involvement of the public. This suggests that either the case is completely out of the question or no one has heard about it today, as was the report on behalf of the Committee. Throughout the year, all trade unions in Ukraine, all of you, name at least one trade union that was not involved in working on the Labour Code. All employers' associations, at least name one employers' association that has not been invited, engaged or forced to participate. Name at least one example of anyone we want, even through the newspaper, that we've engaged to work on the Labour Code, that they didn't participate. What kind of public are you talking about? Let us then make specific suggestions that we propose specifically such an organism.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I'm going to put Sassa's National Deputy to the vote first, and then we're going to be determined. The National MP, Sass, suggests that we now consider a bill under number 7,181 on amending certain Ukrainian laws in the second reading of the Cabinet of Ministers, which deals with customs tariffs. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[16:40:04]] For 185 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -47; Communists -0; "Regions of Ukraine" -3; People's Party -33; Socialists -6; Block of Timoshenko - 26; Ukrainian People's Party - 1; Social Democrats -14; "One Ukraine" -3; "Democratic Ukraine" -19; Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - 12; "Democratic Initiatives" - 4; "Union" - 8; Non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, according to the final vote, those who block the rostrum want to work. Because 14 votes. So, please, let us exchange information on the situation that has arisen, please write down for five minutes. Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u37	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, I think, and I don't think so, and so it is, I see by the hall that you're absolutely right, that now the session room is set up for a fundamental constructive work. This law is quite serious. So I think we're taking a three-minute break right now to get a sense of where we're going from a revolutionary situation to such a constructive one. And so I propose from our faction that we go back to this issue and vote again and again first to go back to this issue and then to support this bill, to consider the bill and to vote on it today as a whole. Because it is the law that has a serious impact on the situation in the consumer market in Ukraine. This law applies not to one, two people, but to 48 million Ukrainians. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u38	Thank you. But I would ask, my dear colleagues, to speak no more of coming back, but of the situation that we will continue to work or not to work, which way out of the question. Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u39	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, as difficult as it may be right now, we cannot go beyond the scope of the 7181 project, which some are now trying to reach through the Supreme Council. It's about Bush's legs again, and how it's going to move or something, so let's say, produce in Ukraine. And once again, it's in the pockets of our voters, because it's a reduction in the tariff burden on the border, and it's coming out of the budget again for the benefit of a transnational corporation and some in Ukraine that's offering national interests. I'm addressing you, our Ukrainian motorists, what you're doing, you're destroying national independence, you're destroying your own manufacturer. Adam Ivanovich, the faction of Communists strongly insists that this project be excluded without socio-economic justification for the development of an agro-industrial complex, and especially in areas such as animalry, avianism, is what our people need to feed, and that's what we need to get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u40	Thank you. Please, Leonid Isaiah, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u41	Please give the floor to a colleague of the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u42	Please, it's King Oleg's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u43	Dear comrades, we were just in the lead of a demonstration of 15,000 people who were trying to do everything they could to be heard. And I'll say that how we couldn't do it, we've been trying to hack into the M.V.A. for 10 to 15 minutes. We were eventually released. We haven't been able to meet the President. Since we were met, since the President's Administration is shielded, even more than it was in Kuchma's time. And I want to say that the faction of the regions will block the rostrum no matter what questions may arise as long as our friends and comrades remain in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u44	Please, Basil Calinchuk, People's Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u45	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we have worked on this bill, and we have worked with the government in a very fruitful way with the leadership of our party. A number of controversies were agreed upon. After all, we came up with a normal harmonized bill. He was accepted in the first reading. So our faction believes that this project needs to be supported, it needs to be considered, and it needs to be voted in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u46	Please, Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u47	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you personally. You can see how the hall is set up for today and how those who block the rostrum are set up today. I want to say from our faction that we are always ready to work. You know, there's so much here today and it's very densely placed in the agenda, but you can see that it's probably necessary for passion to cool down. So let's take a break until tomorrow, and as they say, there will be a traditional meeting of group leaders and factions where a decision will be made on how to work tomorrow. That's a proposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u48	Thank you. Please, Ratchet.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u49	Dear colleague, indeed, I, Mikhailo Ratushny, Ukrainian People's Party. I'm really talking to those who block the rostrum. I understand that forgers, friends, or comrades, as you said, are in the compound. I understand you've had your share today. But let's really not block the constructive work of Parliament, I'm waiting for many questions for you and our voters. These issues relate to agriculture, these questions concern industry, and these are related to employed workers. So, we voted our faction to have the Attorney General report here. But Parliament has to work. If you're going to block, I think Adam Ivanovich, we're really going to call it a break by tomorrow to sort it out in a constructive way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Who of the rebels will speak? Shufret, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u51	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Respectable compatriots! Dear Kiewians! We have just noticed that while we are here from one meeting to another, we are arguing with each other, our comrades are in prison. So our position is as long as the reactions to the decision of 277 national deputies regarding the appeal of the Attorney General of Ukraine to change the precautionary action of our comrades who are now recognized by political prisoners number 1 are Boris Kolesnikov and number 2 is John Rizak, we will block the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order not to exacerbate the situation in the very Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we request a recess until 11 a.m. tomorrow, when we continue our consultations with the heads of law enforcement agencies. We will not allow political repression in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-05-19-m1.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There have been various proposals, let's try to vote them to be our collective decision. There was an offer to announce a recess for 30 minutes, and there was an offer to announce a recess, more loyally, to close the session until tomorrow. I put them in that order for a vote. Who's to announce a 30-minute recess, please be sure. [[16:49:12]] For-42 Who's in charge of closing the evening session by tomorrow's 10:00 a.m. recess, please vote. [[16:49:36]] For-63 There is another suggestion: Who is responsible for working today? Please vote. [[16:50:00]] For-189 The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 67, Communist faction - 49, "Ukrainian Regions" - 2, National Party - 12, SPI - 3, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 9, UNP - 19, SDPU - 3, "The only Ukraine" - 4, "Democratic Ukraine" - 2, SPTU - 4, "Democratic Initiatives" - 0, "The Union" - 3, "The Postfaction - 12. Dear colleagues, under the Rules, to the rights of the Chief, I close the evening session. The evening session is closed. Work starts tomorrow at 10 a.m.
