ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[12:03:36]] There were 405 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, you know that according to the calendar plan for the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine this week, deputies work on committees, factions and groups. However, in view of the situation that has arisen, namely, in connection with the decree issued by the President of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we should, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution, grant approval of this decree and the introduction of such a state of emergency. This explains the need for an additional meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, there was a consensus board of leaders of the MP factions and groups, and we came to the conclusion that at 12 o'clock today there would be such an additional meeting. In the materials you received at the time of your registration, you received an appropriate presidential decree, relevant information about this decree, and other necessary materials. I would just like to point out that, certainly in view of the fact that this is a very unusual situation, we have faced a similar situation for the first time in the history of our parliamentary system and in the history of the nation’s development, when the President gives such a decree on the introduction of a state of emergency, and the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution, should approve this decree and adopt the relevant law. Not everything, as it were, is sustained according to the laws in force, according to the law. So yesterday, the Head of the Supreme Council sent a letter to the President of Ukraine asking for additional materials and documents to be obtained under this decree in accordance with the Emergency Act. That is, to make it clear what an emergency is, because it is the law itself that should be marked in the decree for which the term is due. Or 30, or 60 days according to the law. All over the territory, for 30 days, in separate territories, such a condition can be introduced within 60 days. However, to be noted, what rights are limited. Because the introduction of a state of emergency provides for restrictions on certain constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, and this, of course, must be foreseen so that we, as it were, strengthen it by law, establish laws, which rights must be restricted. I think we need to limit the right to mass meetings of citizens in connection with this situation, to the movement, to the free movement of these areas of the population that are part of the emergency zone, and so forth. Part of this statement by the Head of the Supreme Council, in particular the explanation of the need for a decree, came from the Secretary of the President. And it's given to you today, I hope, in appropriate materials. And considering the extraordinaryness and seriousness of the situation we're in, and what we're supposed to be looking at right now, in the meeting, in an additional meeting of the Supreme Council, both the Prime Minister and practically the entire composition of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part. So you and I have a question to consider today. Draft Act “On the Approval of the Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we reached such agreement on such a rule of procedure. The next rule is proposed. We will hear, as defined in the decree, more faithfully, in the President's submission to the Supreme Council, which is defined by the rapporteur as the Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations and People's Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. We give him 15 minutes to report, 15 minutes to answer questions. Then we'll listen to the Minister of Agrarian Politics, give the co-report 10 minutes and 10 minutes to answer the questions. The same health minister for the report is 10 minutes, 10 minutes for answers to questions. And in view of the fact that the Minister of Environmental Protection is outside our country, the First Deputy Minister for Co - Report will also have 10 minutes and 10 minutes to answer questions. After that, we will allow each faction, the MP group to speak in three minutes each. After discussion, we will make the appropriate decision accordingly. This is what the agenda and the rules are. I see there's a need to make a statement. Please log in with the procedure, five minutes. Yes, please light up on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I think it's positive that the Supreme Council of Ukraine responded promptly, and we interrupted our planned actions that were to be carried out in the districts, the committees, that we responded and came here. But I'm drawing your attention to the President's own decree, so he's running the GAI, so he's treating the hens. I think the President's Secretariat needs to figure out what documents and how they prepare for the President of Ukraine. And then today, apart from these people that we have here, Adam Ivanovich, Baloga, Polachenko, Baranowski, I think we should first listen to someone from the Ministry of Justice, what the legal consequences, the day before the parliamentary elections, will have a place because we can announce tomorrow, and the veterinarian should be here. It's announced tomorrow, for example in the Donetsk region, we can't hold an election there. So we need a thorough, thorough analysis today so that we do not hurry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u3	Please, George Buiko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u4	George Buiko, Communist faction. Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u5	Please, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u6	Simonenko. Dear colleagues! I'd like to make a request to you, and if you don't mind, I'd like to support that. He would also consider it necessary to hear the report of the chief veterinarian Verbicki, who should make it clear about the measures taken. This is a very serious matter, and for the first time in Ukraine, the President has offered to introduce a state of emergency, that is, the situation is not simple. Today, chickens will die, and for fifteen years now, the policy of genocide against the people of Ukraine is under way. And by five million of us, we had become fewer. So I'm asking, let's give a word, and also to Chief Veterinary Doctor Verbicki, to inform him of the actual state of affairs in these locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u7	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u8	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Of course, the subject requires detailed study in all its components. I therefore agree with colleagues who said that we should be able to speak to the Head of State Department of Veterinary Medicine because Verbicki was involved in the topic. And I think that his vision of the situation will not be too much, not only as a person, but also as an official, and as a structure that, unfortunately, is being interpreted in its own way today. That's why I think we should give the floor and get information from the Department of Veterinary Medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u9	Please, Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! As a result of his credentials, the President of Ukraine offered to introduce a state of emergency in some areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This means that the state of emergency will be introduced at six points, where the situation has already come out of the term. before the esoteric process. So we're going to point out that there might be a widespread situation before the epidemic. It is clear, then, that if you and I, as deputies, stand in the defense of the health of Ukrainian citizens, we must make such a decision as soon as possible. And the hearing of a veterinarian, for example, the head of the Ukrainian veterinary service, I think it's a waste of time, because you can see how this service worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u11	Michael Glady, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I ask you to pass the word to Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u13	Please, Sasa Sergei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u14	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The point is that the issue of dealing with the state of emergency introduced in Ukraine is being considered in accordance with chapter 9.3. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And which provides that the discussion of draft laws or the state of emergency decree follows the procedure set out in article 3.4.1. Rules. We've come up with another procedure, and I'd like to pay attention. And the next. With regard to information from the Chief Veterinary Inspector of Ukraine. I think this is a question and his speech should be heard by the Supreme Council. Because these questions tell us who wants to, the minister of agro-politics and other officials who have nothing to do with it. No relationship. And the last. I'd like to have it before we discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u15	Yeah, let me finish. Sasu microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to clarify, in accordance with the law of article 5 of Part 4, the proposals for a state of emergency are either made by the Cabinet of Ministers, or by the National Security Council of the President. I'd like to be told who made such a proposal to the President to prepare such a draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u17	Yes, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. In terms of suggestions, here are most of those who took the floor from the regulatory rules on our consideration of the issue who suggested that we add more to the list of individuals we identified on the Conciliation Board yesterday to hear the information and the Chief Veterinary Officer or how he is there. The post is called the Head of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine, the Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine Verbicki. This proposal was, we'll put it to a vote. There were other suggestions that you shouldn't listen to. But once again, we're going to figure it out. It's a vote. And it was fair to note that Sergey Sass was a representative of the Regulatory Committee that the Rules regulate the consideration of the matter. But I'm just showing you the idea and the proposal of the Conciliation Council, how it's defined how to discuss it. What the representatives of each faction, the MPs, will do. Then we'll find out and see. If, after each faction and group speak, we need to discuss the matter further, we will put the session room to a vote and come to a conclusion. I'm voting on the proposal to listen to information, or, more specifically, the Verbicki report, the head of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine, in addition to the individuals I listed on the proposals of the Conciliation Board. I'd like to vote on the proposal. [[12:17:50]] For 298 Decision taken. I would ask the Secretariat to contact me immediately, and as long as we have reports and reports, I would like to provide an opportunity to inform Verbic that he has. Yes, it is. So be ready. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection, then I'll make one announcement, and we'll get started. I inform you in accordance with the articles of the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy on the Entry of People's Deputy Karpov Alexandr Mikolaiovich into the MP group of the People's Block of Lithuania. Here's the question: the draft Law approving the Presidential Decree on the introduction of state-of-the-art status in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Project No. 8534. I invite the Minister of Ukraine's report on emergency situations and on the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Balou Viktor Ivanovich. Please, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, reverend Yuri Ivanovich! I want to say that yesterday, while the President of Ukraine was in the village of Nekrasovka, there was absolutely no one in the village who could not be in a state of emergency. They feel that this measure is necessary and timely. You know that on December 3, veterinary services in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where there was a mass destruction of rural birds, there was a virus called the bird flu. In the affected areas, some 2,000 heads of the rural bird were killed, including in the villages of Nepresovka Soviet district, Leninsky and Pushkina in the Jankoi district, Emilyanyovka, and Isobilne in the Lower Góra region. With a view to the extreme isolation of the affected areas, the exclusion of the possibility of spreading the disease, and the rapid elimination of the centres of impression, the President of Ukraine imposed a state of emergency on 3 December this year by his decree in certain areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Peace is a harsh but just situation. The government has commissioned me to present to the Supreme Council a decree by the President of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to ask for its approval. At the same time, I inform the country’s distinguished National Deputies that on December 5, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko of the working trip to the affected areas, who took a direct look at the measures taken and identified a number of specific tasks to destroy life’s health and to eliminate this emergency as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u19	Victor Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! I understand your excitement, your excitement, your emergency, but I'd like to ask you a little bit more quietly because you don't hear the reporter. You're here, and we're here to hear it and ask questions. And you're still exchanging impressions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u20	Thank you. To carry out the decree and the commission of the president of Ukraine from December 3 to this day, the next first steps have been taken. But first of all, I report that the removal and disposal of an impressive bird in the village of Nekrasovka in the Soviet region was completed at 6 p.m. yesterday. And tomorrow this procedure will be completed by 6 p.m. at all locations where avian influenza disease has been detected. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers has allocated 17.5 million dollars from the National Budget, of which 15 million dollars is paid to legal and natural persons for bird, removed from the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine’s Avian Influenza and Quarantine Treatment Crime. Two and a half million dollars from the Ministry of Health for the purchase of equipment, raw materials, and disinfectants to prevent the spread of avian influenza virus. The MNF, together with the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, created by the Commission for the calculation, removal and disposal of birds by species composed of representatives of MNS, district government administrations, rural councils and the public. On the commission, the task of controlling the number of birds removed in the amount of compensation for the lost bird, as well as the transport and safe disposal of the bird. In order to prevent the spread of a virus infection, quarantine restrictions have been introduced within a three - km radius of each inhabited site and surveillance zones have been defined within a ten - km radius. 14 quarantine posts have been established. Complete removal and disposal are carried out by burning the entire rural bird in the quarantine zone. During December 3 - 5, more than 22,000 farmers were removed and disposed of from the quarantine zone from 1885. A complex of disinfectant, sanitary, epidemic, and anti-episotic measures is being carried out in the bird’s disease centers. There is a sanitary treatment of the individual composition involved in the task by destination. The trade in birds is prohibited in the markets. Market checks are being carried out by the health and epidemiology services, ISS co-workers, inspections, MNS units. One thousand doses of influenza vaccine have been given to immunize the affected population by the Ministry of Health. A survey of 3,857 people was conducted by veterinary medical teams, the health and epidemiology services. More than 900 people are under medical supervision, including 150 children living in homes where the bird is found to have died. Today, the courtship and medical examination of all affected areas will be completed. Patients suspected of being infected with avian influenza have not been identified. In case of disease, 130 beds, including 60 for children, have been prepared for hospitalization. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Health, have issued instructions to medical institutions and institutions on epideptics, diagnostics, treatments, and prevention of avian influenza. The population is being dealt with with with with an explanatory work on security and information on measures taken by the authorities of the State and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to deal with the emergency. The management of robots and measures to combat avian influenza is carried out by the operational headquarters, which I am tasked with leading. The Ministry operates a day-to-day task force. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a reserve of forces and tools has been created to respond quickly to the complexity of the epizootic environment. 488 people and 78 technical units are involved in the damage zone. In order to prevent the emergence of epizootic complications of avian influenza in areas that result in the migration of birds, heads of Donetsk, Zaporozhye, Mikolai, Odessa, and Herson district administrations, it is entrusted with measures that are appropriate to the situation in the areas. Facts about the mass destruction of the domestic bird in other parts of the Crimea have not been reported. At the same time, with the aim of avoiding the further emergence and spread of avian influenza in all communities of affected areas, the emergency response operations headquarters has identified a range of preventive measures, including: the First Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, together with the Directorate of Veterinary Medicine, the INS and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to organize and carry out a survey of all the population sites of the Soviet, Lower Gory and Jankoj regions on the active detection of a diseased and dead bird in the private and public sectors; to ensure a special composition, active in the execution of the assignment tasks, means of individual protection; and to continue to carry out an explanatory work among residents of the population on the risk of spreading and risk of becoming infected with avian influenza. In case of detection of disease - suspect centres, it is urgent to take complex, veterinary, and epidemiological measures. The other one. The Ministry of Health and the State Epidemiological Service of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, by December 15, to conduct a one-hundred-per-per-cent yard survey and a 100% medical examination of all residents of the population of the Sirecki, Lower Góra and Jankoj districts, with a view to identifying the populations of the flu patients. Ensure that emergency flu prevention and vaccination of residents of the population are carried out, where disease and loss of the farmbird are recorded, as well as the specific warehouse involved in the task assignment. Prepare a hospital base and create a reserve of drugs and disinfectants in case of epidemic flu complications. It takes 15 days to do all the work. The timely and adequate response to an emergency by the ministries, departments, and directors of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, ensures social stability and ensures the success of the tasks. The situation is guaranteed to be controlled. I ask the Supreme Council to approve the order of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u21	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Please sign up for the questions. Please show me on the monitors. 15 minutes. Sophia Kirichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u22	Kirichenko, “Regions of Ukraine”, “Regions of Ukraine”. Please tell the Secretary-General. Is this the first time we've seen a bird fall like this in Ukraine? And answer the question, I think you've done the analysis and you have the exact results. What kind of flu, the strain of what flu it detects, and whether it's harmful to a person. And whether the strain of influenza that affects human health has been identified. Why? Because all the media today are saying that it is precisely the image of the flu that affects the human health that a person may be suffering from. And only as a result do I think the President has issued this decree. However, the information received from the medics claims that no such image has been identified. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. I don't think there are differences today, but there will be analysis in two different laboratories in Russia -- in Volodymyr and in Britain -- London. And we're waiting for the results. I think more detail on the terms of the analysis that the Minister of Agrarian Politics will say, we're doing this work. And the second. In fact, this is the first such decree that proposes a state of emergency. I think that the state of emergency in the six settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is a legitimate step. Because we can quickly process all aspects of the non - spread of avian flu from the six villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u24	Please, Valentin Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u25	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Please pass the word to Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u26	Please, solomatin Yuri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u27	Thank you. According to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 24 March 2004 on the approval of the emergency classification order, what happened in Crimea is an event of a regional level that has spread in two or more areas. And in accordance with article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of state of emergency, the state of emergency is a special legal regime that can be temporarily introduced in Ukraine in the event of an emergency of a technological or natural nature that is not below the national level. Please tell me that you were moved to prepare a presidential decree, which is not exactly what we're going to be talking about, and that's how it responds to that definition. Maybe something like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u28	Thank you. I understand the point of your question. I want to start not by answering the law of Ukraine and article 1, but by saying that this is not a problem for Ukraine, it is a problem for the whole world. And today, I'm sorry, yesterday, I've been approached by many social organizations and government organizations operating in Ukraine. For example, I have been approached by the United Nations System Coordinator in Ukraine, Mr. Francis O'Donnell, who offers aid, first of all, vaccines for human immunization, and offers technical assistance, because this is the first time we've had this, and God forbid it's the last time. And from the point of view of the introduction of the decree, I think it's more of a problem today than there will be problems in all of Ukraine tomorrow. The question today is to locate the problem associated with the outbreak of influenza in the territory, let God be the only six locations in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u29	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u30	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Viktor Ivanovich, that the situation is complex enough and requires an operational response, I think there are no questions raised in this room. The question is whether we react and whether we do. Of the 14 countries where avian influenza occurred, only Honduras and Panama — two countries, Russia and Romania — did not do so. Tell me, what exactly do we need to be a regional exception to this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u31	Thank you. I don't think by classifying the countries you call we can characterize the state of things in Ukraine. And for example, in Romania, once again discovered in the eyes of avian influenza, this only indicates that the country’s complex of small businesses will enable us to perform rigorously all the positions that will enable us to locate the disease problem. We need not fear today that we will have restrictions on movement or on the congregations in these six locations. I don't think that's a big problem. And so this is a maximum of 30 to 40 days. But it is important for us not to spread the avian flu at other locations. And that's why I think that the introduction of the Presidential Decree is extremely necessary and useful for all of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u32	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u33	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Mr. Secretary, I am grateful that you are taking all measures to ensure that this disaster does not spread anywhere, but I do have a question. Tell me if you know who once again founded the President and did not show him article 7 of the Extraordinary Status Act, which states that the law specifies the exact time from which the state of emergency and the deadline for which it is imposed. Because it's not all in the Order. And this today makes it necessary for deputies not to vote in favour of this law. The order must be cancelled, a new command issued. Did your ministry have any authority to prepare such a messy legal act as the President's decree? That's an order. I'll say more than that, such decrees are very much now, and they're all careless, unfortunately. What are you gonna do? Did you have a ministry to prepare for this?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u34	Victor Ivanovich, now. Yuri Anatoliyovich, not the seventh, but the sixth article of the law. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u35	Exactly, Adam Ivanovich, this is the seventh article. It's 30 or 60 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u36	No, no. The sixth article lists a comprehensive list of what should be stated in the decree. And in the seventh article, the term is given. And the sixth says it's going to be a decree, terms that are bounded and so on. And in the seventh, it's about 30 and 60 days. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u37	Honorable National MPs. Yes, the Ministry of Emergency prepared this decree, prepared it promptly, quickly, and probably did not take into account all the articles of the law that we are talking about today. I think we're going to come with you today by consensus and make appropriate proposals to complement. To complete the President’s decree regarding the term and also to complete article 6 if the decree is followed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u38	Please, Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u39	Please give it to Sasu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u40	Please, Sergio Sasa's microphone, but it went on the air because your microphone was turned on. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u41	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable reporter, I wanted to draw your attention to the following circumstances that the issue of the fight against episodes in Ukraine is regulated by article 23 of the Veterinary Medicine Act through state-owned anti-epizootic commissions. And the state of emergency is introduced in Ukraine, and I quote article 1 of the law, which provides for the granting to the relevant authorities of the State and the local authorities, in accordance with this law, of the powers necessary to prevent the threat and safety of human and animal health. I wanted to ask you, what authority did your ministry lack under the Veterinary Medicine Act to do these things? Are there any in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u42	I think I'll do it again. We talked to you about this today. The directive is needed, it is better to choose the number of enterprises today, but our main task is to conduct the enterprises in the territory of these three areas today in order to prevent its distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u43	Please, Vladimir Muhin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u44	Mukhin, Socialist Party. The people in Crimea say that the bird's skirt was about two months ago, but the measures started only now, in December. This is the first question I have -- why did this happen? Another question: Is there not such a threat in other areas? I am deeply concerned about the Zaporozhye area because the different rumours come to us about other areas. And you're doing something about it so that information about what's happening in these areas comes to you quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u45	Thank you. On the first question that you asked, why were the people of the population not doing the work for two months? Yesterday, the Attorney General of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea opened a criminal case against the facts set out by the inhabitants of these settlements. Indeed, it is, but how to qualify and why it wasn't, I think we'll have an answer in the near future. The second question you asked is there a threat to other areas? Yes, there is a threat to other areas. In this connection, both the anti-episotic commission and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics are doing this work literally from September-month. And a number of actions have been taken by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. Today, that is, yesterday we asked all the district leaders, including Zaporozky, to activate the work regarding the situation in the region and to conduct a series of flu monitoring and detection operations. So the work is done in all regions, including the Zaporozhye region.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u46	Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u47	Dear Victor Ivanovich, I believe that the rapid response of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Authority in Ukraine to the general, global problem, here, plus you and the authorities of the state. I think we've found this problem too late and in this situation it's better to lose than to play. But I have a specific question. The first is that avian flu is in Ukraine, which has been introduced by migratory birds for a long time. Why is it so late, only after the massive extinction of the domestic bird was made? Will anyone be held accountable for this? Once, and secondly, is the term 60 days, which is stipulated by the state of emergency law enough to localize and neutralize this problem and enough to study it, or has it switched to other regions: Clothing, Churchland, where there have also been and are flying birds?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I have already said that if there are observations by law enforcement authorities before they carry out their duties as responsible persons or others, the responsibility of these people will be borne. Secondly, the terms we need to understand with you that if we're talking about 6 population points, 40 virgins is enough. If, God forbid, we're going to have flu viruses in other areas again, there's going to be another deadline for the order to continue. So today, the main thing is to carry out a complex of work related to the prevention and monitoring of the situation in the entire Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as the areas I called.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u49	Please, Michael Bauer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u50	Mikhailo Bauer, Cherniewec district, 204th constituency, Lithuanian People's Block. Dear Victor Ivanovich, such a question, we knew earlier about the likelihood of the spread of avian flu to Ukraine, who do you think failed to spread it? And the second question is, I realize it's humane to compensate the bird that died. But the cost ratio is far from good for the people. I mean, I think we need to increase the amount of money to buy drugs. And the cost of compensation is calculated according to the number of birds in this population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Why do you feel that there has been no preconceived action? I think the work that Minister Baranowski was doing is quite powerful. And to talk today about how many population points there can be -- six or ten or fifteen -- it also says that the Ministry of Agriculture Policy has been systematically engaged in this work for literally the last three months. And to talk about the cost today, whether it's 15 million, or 20 or 30, I don't think that's the main thing. The main thing we have today is to locate the spread of avian influenza in the area and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the areas that are adjacent to the peninsula. So if there is a question of extra funds, you and I are going to have to decide to make extra payments. But today this is not essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u52	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. The co - report is invited by the Minister of Agrarian Politics, Alexander Petrovich. Please. Please have 10 minutes and 10 answers to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government. For the first time, the discovery of avian flu near Ukraine’s borders was known on October 9, the year when the carcasses of domestic ducks were found in a rural village. The Republics of Romania have had a positive effect on the dangerous virus. This settlement is located 10 kilometers from the border with the Odessa region. That day, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy made contact with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests, and Development of Romania. We've been getting constant information about how things are going with the neighbors, how the virus is located. When it became clear on Monday, October 17, that this was the most dangerous form of highly pathogenic H5N1 flu that led to the death of people in Asia, I and a group of experts went to Romania to learn about the situation on the spot. On October 17, in the district city of Sucava, 45 kilometers [45 km] from the border with the Chernivecki region, a meeting took place with the minister of Romania, Moldova, and experts from three countries. The Romanian minister informed and clearly demonstrated the status of bird flu detection in their country and how localization measures are being carried out. After that, I repeat, 17 numbers, this was in Romania, 20 October this year by the Ministry along with other departments, the Odessa ministries gathered a meeting attended by about 750 people. They were experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, Health, Home Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Affairs, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, customs, Border Services, Derzcomlis, the heads of the Ukrainian Society of Hunters and Fishers, the Ukrkkoopspilica, the Sustainable Inspection, and representatives of public organizations. There were representatives of the central regional authorities. The slides showed signs of highly pathogenic influenza. Experts, scientists from Ukraine, and Moldova have come to the forethought of what should be done to minimize the possible intrusion of the disease. As I attended this meeting, I tried to convey to the audience the anxiety I had brought from Romania, where I had to see queues in pharmacies for influenza vaccines, hard boundaries of the power structures that explained the fires because the virus was detected in several radiuses. All of this, by the way, I put it in the relevant notes for the time being both the Prime Minister and the President. I think we've managed to focus on the need to concentrate the efforts of the central and regional authorities, regardless of their reputation. Just before the October 19 Odessa meetings, the President of Ukraine issued a decree “On urgent measures to prevent and to prevent and carry, and the spread of highly pathogenic avian influenza and to minimize the consequences. The Odessa meeting produced and approved measures to prevent the epidemic, widely distributed in the media. The point was to clarify the nature of the disease, to prevent cases of bird disease. On the basis of these documents, work has been done in areas and areas, and they have been used by the birds of Ukraine, who have actively engaged in the struggle to take the most effective measures to prevent the introduction of the virus. All specialized birds were transferred to a more stringent closed operation. The President’s decree of October 19 was able to focus society’s attention on the complexity of the epidemic situation in the world and on the appropriate measures to be taken in Ukraine. A considerable amount of work was done to carry out the decree. While at the meeting in Odessa, I asked the district health authorities to bring me in, give me a proper flu shot, but they stated that with the vaccine. We've practically got her missing. I must say that the Ministry of Health immediately responded appropriately, and the situation was immediately rectified. It was issued with a joint order from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Ministry of Health regarding the fight against avian influenza and, above all, in the disaster detection zone in Pridunaya. The Minprompolitans and the Minochrons of Health carried out continuous monitoring of the epidemiological and epidemiological conditions of the disease, both in Ukraine and in our neighbors, to monitor the migration of wild birds. We were able to execute the companies that were listed in our respective instructional materials and presidential decrees. It was equipped at all points of the border crossing, primarily with Romania and Moldova and at seaports, with constant disinfection barriers. Imports into Ukraine of animals and the production of animal raw materials from countries where the disease was registered are prohibited. At the same time, he was able to agree on proposals to ban the hunting of wild feathered birds in dangerous areas. Together with the State Service and the State-Cordon, non-nationalization of products of animal origin for their own consumption was organized, which could be a risk factor. Along with the Ministry of State, the Administration of the State, Mintranszex, and Minfin managed to secure items. At the state border, which is designated for cargo to the Vetec medical service by special equipment. In connection with the emergence of highly pathogenic influenza in Romania, Greece, Turkey, the Russian Federation, the endangered areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Winnick, Zakarpatski, Johno - Franksky, Odessa, Mikolayivsk, Hersonsk. In these areas, government control, the supervision of all forms of ownership, is strengthened. Sanitary passes with thermometrics of all forms of property were provided. The relevant services provided an overview and disinfection of all means of transport transport from Romania, Moldova, Turkey, and Russia. Additional monitoring is carried out, research into all kinds of birds, both wild and domestic. Special attention is paid to the work of the overseas services, the state - of - the - art department of non - importation into the customs territory of smuggled meat, raw materials, and animal products. It may be said that specialized closed - circuit birds are all working. And this has made it impossible to get a virus in these areas. I hope and will continue to protect them from this disease. Active work was carried out with clarity among the population. In virtually every area, dozens of bright adhesion posters have been released with a circulation of more than a million specimens to prevent infection, which should be done in case of signs of bird disease. Through local media, press conferences, posters, postcards, headquarters contact phones were reported in case of suspected disease. Individual citizens’ farms were informed, however, about the restrictions on contact with the domestic bird and the wildlife. You could say that we were able to follow the ban in a 15km zone from the state border with the countries where the disease was established, trade in the markets in live pigs, raw materials with the production of birds. And with the outbreak of fire in Crimea, additional measures are being taken by the Ministry to control the situation. An operating headquarters, headed by one of the deputy ministers, has been established in areas and areas, hotlines are organized, and experts alternate around the apparatus 24 hours a day. In just one day, more than 70 citizens took advantage of this line. I mean, there's a lot of information going on today that's pretty provocative when we're on the phone -- something is being clarified, experts are going out -- there's nothing there and we can't find those who did. Yesterday there was a visit by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine to the bird flu detection zone in a number of inhabited areas of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It must be said that the people of Priscilla are calm, understanding the situation in their region. All the understandable discussions that have taken place with the villagers about solving the issues that are being resolved with regard to the immediate compensation of the forced slaughter of the bird inspire people's belief that the state will not leave them face-to-face with the trouble that all of us together will be able to overcome the disaster. Even more optimistic was the decision made yesterday to provide them with adequate quarantine measures. a young bird that is being destroyed today according to quarantine. I want to point out that 190 million birds are in Ukraine. It's a 2-month supply of meat for the consumption of the population of Ukraine, and so to a certain extent they may be hard, maybe they're in pain, including the honourable people's deputies, but in our opinion it's a measure forced, and it's short-lived, and, God forbid, that's it. This disease does not allow for more extensive territory in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u54	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Please sign up for the questions. Let's see it on the monitors. Ten minutes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u55	Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozhye. Dear Alexander Petrovich and other dear friends of Yushchenka! The very fact that we are discussing this issue in an aura regime today, which is the subject of the Presidential Decree, as always with violations of legal norms, speaks of one thing: the deep systemic crisis of power, which has long been warned about by the “Ukrainen Regions”, has taken place. In support of my words, I want to tell you that we're here in this room in a month or two, we're going to make a decision about the state of emergency in connection with the new cold disaster. Because of the government’s artificially created orange gas crisis. And the question to you is, Please tell me if Yushchenko hadn't come to Crimea to the village of Nekrasovka along with Balogya, if they had been. Would you make any suggestions for an emergency or a sanitary border? Have you all lived, sat and waited for the President to come to Crimea and to make a smart decision, to bring about an emergency?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. I, the honourable national deputies, informed you that no one was expecting the President's arrival, but what measures were being taken by the Ministry and other authorities regarding the non-admission of this disease. The President of Ukraine came yesterday, you might say, more on an inspection trip and perhaps more familiarize himself with the situation that is and, accordingly, to meet with the residents of these population points, what he did yesterday. But the ministry of agrarian politics, other ministries and departments, reports Balog’s colleague, did not wait for the flu to appear. Perhaps today, let's say, dear friends, that the measures that have been taken today have minimized the situation of avian influenza. And if this wasn't done, if we hadn't informed people, if there wasn't a focus on that issue, you would have said it today, and why didn't you do nothing? I mean, the measures were widespread, and the goal was the only one. Regardless of political views, who love the President, to protect our people, to prevent this terrible disease. The fact is, 56 people died of this disease in the world. Well, we can say that more people die in car accidents, but no one knows what the consequences may be. So we worked and tried to work in good conscience, although of course we could be criticized and found some moments where things were not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u57	George Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u58	Gorgi Ponomarenko, the Communist faction. Alexander Petrovich, six days ago, reporting the veto to the Communist leader Simonek on a moratorium on the import of bird meat in connection with avian influenza, said that there was no such thing in Ukraine. And by substantiating this veto, you said that it wasn't for Ukraine, but 200 tons of bird meat, thousands of tons of bird meat that we import, is a good thing for Ukraine. So you don't think that Peter Simonck's law on the moratorium should be introduced immediately?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u59	I thank you for asking. I didn't say by reporting from the rostrum that we have the impossible appearance of this virus. We're not insured. Now millions of feathered birds spend their rest on Lake Sivaš. And the contact of the domestic bird was with the wild, and experts prove that it came from there. [[Unfortunately, the population didn't listen to us all.]] With regard to the ban on imports of meat. We have, for the moment and today, in lands where avian influenza is detected, there are bans on noninclusion of meat in Ukraine today. Along with those countries where it does not exist, it is imported accordingly. And you know very well that 300,000 tons were imported last year, now imported within 40,000 tons, less. And there is another reason that if we don’t have enough meat to produce today, if we ban it in this way, we know that tomorrow will arise in the markets, and how people will react. I mean, the question is: meat is needed, but it was needed from any disease. Along with the law you're talking about, he didn't protect our market from the young bird, from the shoes, the egg got carried away and so forth. He did not give us assurance that he would no longer allow it. Hence, other measures that were applied provided an appropriate guarantee that people would receive safe meat. So for that reason, there were our arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u60	Please, Waisle Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u61	Dear Alexander Petrovich! You are right to ask what you should say about who did or did nothing, including what you did or did not do to warn or warn. I want to give you an example. Official information agencies reported on 20 October, a month and a half ago. The Head of State Department of Veterinary Medicine, Petr Verbicki, was requested by the 15 million greven for vaccination against avian influenza. However, the Minister for Agriculture Policy, Alexander Baraniwski, did not give effect to this initiative. According to him, there is no such vaccine and the department kicks money for its own purposes. Comment, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u62	Thank you for asking. In fact, unfortunately, there is no bird flu vaccine in the world today, so that a bird can be vaccinated and we are already guaranteed from this virus. That is the truth today. There is no such virus. And take the other one. Sorry, there's a virus. There's no vaccine. Sorry. Yes, I did. There's no vaccine. 190 million birds today in Ukraine, you'd understand if there was this vaccine, which is what it takes, and so on. There's no vaccine! All the developed countries that have the same problem, not all of them, and those who have this problem don't do the vaccination either. There's a question in another. That vaccination from the common flu increases their immunity to disease and that the health of the Ministry raises the issue of vaccination. What the Ministry of Health is still doing today. And the position was also known when experts found out, and in particular, abroad, they meet with Romanian experts, Moldova, they communicate with other countries without such a vaccine, so how could I ask for money for a vaccine that is not really in nature. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Please tell me, Mr. Minister, how do you expect to get out of this situation that is now foreseen in this colossal situation, which in the light of legal negligence in the preparation of the decree? That's the first question. The other one. Is it possible to ask the President right now that he has issued supplements before the end of the session that would be in line with the law? I was approached by veterinary experts and was told that Ukraine had ignored the work of an international conference on avian influenza in Geneva in November. And this is exactly when we had these birds in Romania near the Restoration area, that is, in the immediate vicinity of us. It was somehow perceived inadequately by our community. And I'd like to ask, was it in the Ministry that someone blocked from the Ministry to get a group out there, to Geneva, for this cooperation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you the next thing about legal, maybe some inaccuracies. Well, you're like a professional, experienced lawyer, maybe you've found in the decree some, well, trouble there, maybe something isn't spelled out like you see as a lawyer. Well, we'll be grateful if you make any adjustments if there's this mistake to fix it. But in my opinion, in this case, we would have to look at what this document is meant to be. It's designed primarily to secure our population. I don't see any politics here, or let's say someone there made a terrible mistake consciously or something. If there's a mistake, let's fix it with you. With regard to Ukraine’s participation in various international activities. I'll say, dear friends, that we are taking part in international action. But there are so many different ways of doing this, that we also have to fund the problem of leaving, and there is not always any clarity as to where we are going or where we are not going. I get it when I'm in one day, and they tell me to go somewhere. And the MPs are looking at travel abroad, so let's talk. So as much as we can take part in any action, including veterinary specialists, we can provide advice as much as we go abroad as our services have, you will see that communication with the international community, including avian influenza, is quite effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u66	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. Yesterday, a man died from a fairytale in the Kirovograd region. From this rostrum, 22 people die of tuberculosis every day from tuberculosis and are not in a state of emergency. Today, it has become known from the media that only the H-5 genome has been removed from the pot material and that the N-1 gene, which is dangerous to humans, has not been identified. I'd like to clarify why Ukraine, the only country in all the countries that have suffered, and it's obvious from the flu, is now entering an extraordinary state. Not in Southeast Asia, not in Russia, not in Hungary, not in Romania, not in other countries. Don't you think it's necessary to put the anti-aircraft batteries on the coast of Siwasa so that the birds can be shot and the complete absurdity is assured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u68	Thank you. In view of the shooting of the birds, hunting was prohibited. Because you know very well how a bird-scarring specialist can carry the infection to a long distance. Therefore, it is forbidden. As for people who die of tuberculosis and die of leprosy, and so forth. Yes, of course, this is our tragedy. But today the international community, you know, is paying attention to avian influenza and it is associated with an epidemic that has not yet been studied enough. And for example, while in the same Romania, even more severe measures were used than we had. And let's say there are other questions. How to check the car that leaves the area without authorization and to remove the product that it has to do with it. I want to emphasize once again -- this is not about making things worse, and this is about making sure that our population is as good as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Alexander Petrovich, please sit down. Polachenko, Minister of Health Yuri Volodymyrovich, is invited to the report. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich, you have 10 minutes to report and 10 minutes to answer and question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs. Medical insight into history. In 1997, the first confirmed case of bird flu infection in Hong Kong. The H5N1 strain then caused severe flu in eighteen people, six of whom died. Infection of seventeen occurred in bird markets, in one case on a bird farm. Diseases were caused by the same strain as domestic birds. WHO experts tend to believe that the introduction of a state of emergency, quarantine, and the rapid destruction of a diseased bird in Hong Kong had warned of an epidemic among humans. Medical authorities believe that the introduction of a state of emergency with all its epidemic components is only the right thing to do to localize the infection and to prevent further disease and spread. This strategy reduces the intensity of episodes and reduces the level of human contact with the source of infection. Medical people have always been on the sidelines of the idea that it would be better to warn them than to treat them. And now for direct medical interventions in Crimea. On December 2, at 7 p.m., we received operational information from the Ministry of Health of the Crimea on the reported facts of mass disease and the loss of domestic bird in the villages of Rasna, Emilyanovka of the Lower Gori district, Necrosovka of the Soviet region. For the purpose of determining the situation in Crimea, a deputy of the Chief State Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine was immediately deployed. Following a meeting in the leadership of the State and the President's signing of a decree on the state of emergency at the MoH of Ukraine, an operational headquarters and a training commission for epidemi-monitoring and clinical observation were established. The operations headquarters are now in full-time rotation with the purpose of the congregation, generalizing operational information that comes in 24 hours a day. Today, according to WHO’s recommendation, after receiving information on the detection of the H5 virus, the Ministry conducts yard sweeps in the villages above. To this end, teams have been created, including medical personnel and health - care professionals. There are 26 of these teams working today. It conducts outdoors, population surveys, and the detection of flu and acute respiratory infections. During December 3-5, five and a half thousand yard sweeps were conducted. This is 100 percent of the population. There have been 11 cases of acute respiratory disease all the time, five of them. This level of disease does not exceed the seasonal rate, but is still below the same level last year. We confirm that there are now 901 people under medical supervision, of whom 150 are children -- people who live in gardens where the deaths of birds are recorded. The Ministry is already increasing the number of brigades to conduct yard sweeps throughout the area along the coast of Sivas Lake, where there may be places where wild migratory birds can be located with the aim of detecting possible outbreaks of domestic bird infection. The courtyards of this area began today. The hospital base, which is now fully antibiotic, hormone, transfusion solutions, and antivirals, is ready. Honorable national MPs, the widespread spread of infection among birds increases the likelihood of transmission. Scientists predict that humans who are simultaneously infected with man’s flu and avian influenza can become a so - called reservoir for mixing viruses, resulting in a new subtype with enough human genes that can easily be transmitted from human to human. This may lead to a pandemic. Those who contact and destroy sick birds should be vaccinated against the common human flu. This is done to reduce the likelihood of a hen flu and influenza mutation. The only way in immunoprophylactics is by inoculating the population against the flu. The MOH is already conducting such vaccination of the population with the flupoly vaccine, which is the Russian Federation. First of all, vaccinations are being carried out for the inhabitants of the village of Neprešivka, where it is the beginning of a mass disease and the death of birds and, to date, the largest population that could be in direct contact with sick birds. In order to carry out vaccination measures, 29 brigades were formed, vaccinated for three days, 1,144 people. Today we expect 50,000 doses of inflation vaccines, this is the Netherlands, to do today, perhaps tomorrow. During December 5-8, 100 percent of all 5 villages will be vaccinated, except for those who had direct contact with the sick bird. According to experts, these people will be vaccinated in two weeks. In the following we conduct immunoprotection of the village population, which is territorially related to the above areas and other adjacent sites. Inoculations will also be carried out for individuals at risk throughout Ukraine. These are primarily workers who are engaged in bird farming, doctors, experts from the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and so forth. We're using antivirals today in the centers of infection with prevention. It's amizon, arbitol, remantadine, and anapherone. Social packages are prepared for the population, consisting of vitamins, immunomodulators, children’s diets, antivirals, and medical devices. The availability of medicines in the region is a permanent reserve at the Crimea Health Facility. Next. In order to provide medical care in emergency areas, we have provided the necessary medical equipment for two rural outpatients and two FAPs. Tomorrow this equipment will reach its destination. And last but not least, respectable national MPs, respected colleagues, the introduction of an emergency doctor's opinion, anti-epidemic measures and immunoprophylactics are well-founded steps to reduce the risk of infection among birds and the possible transition of the virus to human populations. We are also grateful today to the international organizations that are sending letters to the Ministry of Health with proposals for antivirals, immunomodulators, and essential medical supplies. Medical personnel are now taking all necessary preventive measures to ensure that people's well-being and monitoring are able to develop. We thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u72	Dear Minister, tell me, for God's sake, whether all the action you are talking about requires a state of emergency. There's not enough quarantine. This is the first time. Secondly, can you guarantee that by declaring a state of emergency in this very narrow territory, you will avoid flashes that are completely unrelated to these areas in any other area. Third. Don't you think it's completely absurd to announce the state of emergency in those narrow areas where such preventive actions have taken place, that exactly where you said the disease rate is much lower? Obviously, this question is not entirely up to you, but do you suppose that all of this is followed by just one political moment, according to which in those areas where the state of emergency is introduced, the elections are virtually halted. And isn't that, I think it's a rhetorical question, but isn't that actually a back-up scenario for Ukraine for the electoral period?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u73	Thank you. Your Honor, I have already said in my report that the medical profession today confirms the need to introduce such a condition. For us, for the medical community, the localization of infections is a fundamental issue. And the measures that are now being taken by our colleagues and us together, we consider the situation to be entirely adequate now. Another question is, how long does this state of emergency require in the mode that exists today, that is, whether it's forty days or less. Today, we are saying that not only do we provide preventive measures and passive active immunoprophylaxis for only these five villages, we go beyond this territory and walk along the Siwas. As far as the rhetorical question is concerned, as you say, you know, today when you communicate with the population of these areas, they are asking that today is an extraordinary situation. For the medics, the position is absolutely clear, we confirm that. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u74	Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, would you please explain to me that I understand our ordinary radio listener, and the TV set understands how the avian flu is more dangerous than the common flu? And please give us this statistic, how much does a regular flu get out of your life every year from a regular flu, and how much does it get out of your life at the expense of a bird's flu? [[flu or complication of influenza]] Is it not a danger that is so much spoken of that is to some extent fabricated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u76	Thank you. We are now speaking only for prevention, so that there may not be, God forbid, this misery that has taken place in Hong Kong and elsewhere in the world. We're talking today about, unfortunately, there's no final data in the world today on the possibility of developing a pandemic in the mutation of two types of viruses -- human and avian. We're only talking as a possibility of a possible mutation of these genes. To that end, all we do today is what we are recommended by world experts and our sciences. We're talking about immunoprophylactics today, and we think it won't allow these two genes to mutate, and then it'll raise the issue of the pandemic. Of course, your question today is relevant to our common human flu. We can't compare these categories, the medics, because we can't compare the categories from a scientific point of view. But God forbid, if there is an extraordinary situation in the mutation of genes, there will be completely different measures and treatments and prevention. All we're talking about is that we're locating the process and giving the possibilities, the possibilities of mutation of these two genes. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u77	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u78	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Please tell me the question of the next order. I know that a draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers has been prepared and 15 million have been invested there. Greven to you and Min APC. No decision was taken. Do you today have sufficient financial resources for the tasks of avian influenza in your part as the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Today, we've asked for two and a half million dollars just for the actions that we're doing together, that's two and a half million dollars. It's the cost of vaccines, a test of the system, and drugs that increase immunity. Today, we say that this sum is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u80	Vitaly Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u81	Please give the floor to national deputy Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u82	Please, Sergei Sassa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u83	Thank you, Vitaly Terentiyovich. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you: To locate diseases of episodes in Ukraine, there is an extraordinary, state-owned anti-epizootic commission. In line with the position of the Cabinet of Ministers in charge of this commission, it is headed by the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Minister, including the Deputy Minister of Health. I have a question of this order: How little authority do you have in this commission that you need to introduce an emergency? Is there any mistrust, perhaps to an extraordinary commission, created and already operating in a state, held 2 meetings, developed businesses, according to legislation? What else does your ministry need in order to carry out preventive measures in the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u84	Well, let's say, headquarters, now the headquarters that's working in the city, today can quickly solve the issues in very many ways, including the operational response to all the challenges that are now in existence, that is also the financing issue. If today is an emergency and we confirm it and say that we need it, we can today, in an operational order, ask to increase the funds for all the measures that are going on. So it's at an operational response level, a completely different approach, completely. For the medical community, that's a different approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u85	Dmitri Rudkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u86	I'd like a word with the National Deputy, Mr. Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u87	Microphone, please Boris Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Yuri Volodymyrovich, I would like to know this from your ministry came a letter in the name of the head of the Supreme Council on the move to comply with President of Ukraine's decree on the introduction of a state of emergency? Is it not? Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u89	We inform the Supreme Council, we inform the Cabinet of Ministers, the President of the execution of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u90	I'd like to do a little stylistic work, because let's say the first, the second, the third paragraph is an organized disinfection in individual farms where bird diseases and transport are detected. We're dividing it. It's not me laughing, it's just neglect.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u91	We accept the criticism, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u92	And in some cases, we have to unify anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u93	Thank you. We accept the criticism, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u94	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u95	Mr. Secretary, I would like to return to the question of how much extraordinary action is needed, whether it is necessary for our authorities both at the center and in places to perform their functions, their duties and the usual measures to be used effectively. And then perhaps there was no need to ask now about extraordinary measures. In particular, the State’s Extraordinary Anti - Epidemiology Commission held meetings at the Cabinet of Ministers made the appropriate decisions. They need to be done. An order has been issued to the government since December 3 this year to pay compensation. So it's incomprehensible, which are the extra ones, what are the additional powers needed to successfully combat the avian flu, what's missing?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u96	Thank you. The thing is, really, all the actions that you've set out on this committee, you've been doing. The doctors practically worked every day. And that's not the question right now that we haven't done anything. It's just that when an emergency comes in, I've already told your fellow MP, we have the ability to quickly solve the situation on the spot. I said, and this is the material and technical resources, the involvement of experts. So it's an operational response to all of these possible consequences that we have today. And they're giving us the opportunity to localize this process and continue along the entire coast of Siwas also by decision of this commission. Thank you for understanding. It's easier for us to work this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u97	Please, Alexander Colonyari.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word to Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u99	Anatoly Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u100	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Volodymyr Litvina faction. Dear reporter, I have a question. Well, first of all, there's been a lot of talk here about taking measures to warn this disease, this disaster that came to the Crimea. But here's a question. This is what my constituents call it that we always have the most important preventive, or the most important preventive, action, so to speak, the discussion of someone, that is, the search for an extreme. And today, in the President's speech, it was said that the country's most extreme is the Chief Veterinary Medicine Officer. But on an international level, they know he's an expert. So you think that's true when we're looking for extremes. That's the first one. And the second. Are there any results from interdisciplinary veterinary laboratories that confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u101	Thank you. You know, we're not looking for anyone. Medical personnel are looking only for the sick. And God forbid we'll find him. As for the lab's confirmation, we have this data. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u102	Yuri Volodymyrovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection, Lizon Stepan Alexiyovich, to the report. Please have 10 minutes of information and 10 answers to your questions. Get ready for Verbicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, respected members of the government. Ukraine’s Ministry of Nature on the problem that we are discussing today in planning and implementing measures related to the spread of this disease, which is transmitted by birds, is focusing primarily on minimizing the contact of migratory birds with domestic birds and humans. In view of the above, the ministry is now working in three directions that we believe are the most optimal and will produce some positive results in our conviction. This is primarily the restriction of hunting for feathered game, the creation of conditions on the migration of migratory birds for their concentration and the avoidance of dispersion of natural resources. This is, for example, now concentrated all the efforts in the Crimean-Sivash National Park. And what is now being done by the Ministry and our local authorities is doing an explanatory work to reduce the contact of migratory birds with domestic birds and humans. By letter of 19.10, Ukraine’s Minister of Environmental Protection, in connection with the outbreak of avian influenza in South and East Asia and southern Siberia, and cases of domestic influenza in some parts of Romania, Turkey, and Greece, for the purpose of carrying out prevention and warning of possible distribution in Ukraine, ordered the preparation and signing, within a two - day period, an order for the temporary hunting of feathered game. I'm going to say again that it was 19.10. And so by December 1st, we had banned any hunting on the feathered wildebeest. In addition, it has been suggested that local forest authorities, along with hunting grounds users, carry out a diagnostic shot of wild migratory birds on migratory routes across Ukraine to conduct research to detect avian influenza outbreak. 31.10. An order was issued to prohibit the hunting of feathered game in all the territory of Ukraine, which is scheduled to be introduced by December 1st. At the same time, 14.11 is assigned to the Uniatures of Ukraine, and a separate commission is given to the head. Crimea, heads of government, should urgently take steps to strengthen monitoring of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation within their jurisdiction. To prevent the illegal shooting of wild birds. Information on the execution of this commission is provided for the Ministry of the Interior. Between the 11th and the 11th and the given time of information received from the regions, no gross violations were detected, but on 20 and 28 November, environmental inspectors recorded cases of illegal hunting by foreign tourists who purchased licences and, accordingly, regardless of our ban, were hunting, they were Italian citizens. The circumstances of the violations detected are identified by the State Environmental Inspectorate. Since December 3, 2005, the ban on feathered game has been extended until the end of the season. This is an order signed on December 1st, and the Ministry is taking steps to increase monitoring. What is being done operationally. Today, our district administration, as well as the Commonwealth of Crimea, has been instructed to strengthen the monitoring of bird flight, to increase the monitoring of their location, especially in southern areas, from the Danube Reserve and to complete through Lake Sassik to the Crimea. Strengthen bird behavior monitoring. And especially the action that we're doing right now is to concentrate their position. It means feeding birds so that they do not need to contact domestic birds, primarily because of their diet. True, this has its negative point that we've already pointed out, the birds are taking a long time than they would have done without it, but we think in these conditions, it's better to go the way we're doing right now. It's different. Within our reserve funds, a sampling shot was made, which I mentioned above, with the aim of establishing the presence of diseases in wild birds. And so we're going to monitor with virtually weekly yields of this information. Of course, all of these measures require a concentration of some additional funds, which was also made by the minister's regrouped funds for monitoring from those issues that I had already informed you about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u104	Thank you, please sign up for the question. Let's see it on the monitors. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions of Ukraine”, Zaporozhye. Dear Stephen Alexiovich! I don't have as many questions for you as I have for the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection as I have for a member of the government. You're reporting from the government. In the context of these corruption scandals, which are constantly accompanying the activity of the "orange" government in view of accusing the President's team of illegally receiving funds for elections from Boris Beresowski, I have a question for you. Please tell me who will control the spending of 17.5 million dollars. How many of them will really fall for the poor people who have suffered, because, you know, before New Year's Eve, before Christmas, they've lost some kind of income, some work, and, Adam Ivanovich, I'm proposing a draft of a decision that we're going to make at least a vote not to allow abuse to be entrusted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to test the expenditure of 17.5 million dollars. This is especially true before the parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u106	Thank you. I believe that the control of the funds will certainly be carried out by every department that will be their supervisor within its jurisdiction. To an extreme extent, in your second part, you answered in part the question that these would already be organs, let's say the same House of Accounts. But the funds that are provided within our ministry will certainly be behind us, and each coin will follow its purpose. That's what I promise you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u107	Alexander Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u108	Bondarchuk, the Communist faction. Indeed, the situation in the Crimea is complex, and questions arise as to whether measures are being taken by the Government to bring this situation to normal terms. Here you are proposing to limit the movement of people, that is to say, to introduce a state of emergency, but in fact it is clear that the main carrier of this virus is not humans, but birds, after all. Therefore, the likely destruction of the bird is a normal measure. And when it comes to restricting the movement of people, it's a redundancy. And one more question. Nevertheless, compensation must be paid to the people who have been taken away from the bird, but it must be provided to those masters who still have the bird today and so that they can feed them at home and not release them to the lakes for contact with the wild birds. So these people are supposed to have some kind of material support? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u109	Well, about the first question. You know, in my report, I in vain mentioned the fact that two were found hunting illegals. The point is, what was the little problem or some conflict? People bought a license. It was about the Italian hunters who bought the license, and they thought our problems were our problems. They went on a hunt and, frankly, there were certain difficulties and difficulties in stopping their hunting activities. So I'm talking about displacement, I mean, just the part that's going to apply to this question. And second, with regard to compensation for losses that may have been incurred as a result of the restrictions on the movement of birds. Well, you know, once again within the jurisdiction of our ministry, we think we're doing the opposite: maximizing the location of the wild bird so that it doesn't contact human beings. And that's why we're now adapting and concentrating them at their locations -- on the lakes, on the reserves, and so on. Well, I think it's a matter within the commission that, I see, I'm that member, that question will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u110	Sergey Zizko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u111	Sergey Žizko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Well, first of all, it's important to commemorate the operation with which the President intervened in the development of events around the emergence of the mass fall of domestic birds while local officials have long thought about the causes of the disease and have expressed various assumptions about it. Also, if the fact that a bird’s disease began early in November is confirmed, does that not mean that local authorities have shown malicious inaction? Also, what is the threat of the spread of avian influenza and the emergence of such outbreaks in other regions of Ukraine, and is there enough vaccine doses, decontaminants needed to neutralize and help the population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Well, the last part of your question, I think, was answered by the health minister, who actually indicated that there was enough medicine. Rather, it is the competence of the Ministry of Health. Yet, there is a danger that exists in other regions. The southern regions are now the most imaginable, as it is there today that migratory birds migrate southward. I, with your permission, will remind you that if only in October were birds detected, some birds, more specifically, dead birds in the Danube and in the Odessa region, were analyzed immediately for the possibility of such a disease. Unfortunately, then the results turned out to be negative, so they didn't really confirm the presence of that strain that we're talking about today. I mean, what do I do? Which is not always this, so to speak, monitoring that we see is effective. So for today, the threat is certainly in the southern areas, but once again, I want to assure you that the monitoring that we're doing right now is enough, in our view, to be informative, and that's why we're going to be following up on the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u113	Valerius Pussykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u114	Please pass the word Taran. [[Field]]
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u115	Victor Terran's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u116	Thank you at last. I was finally handed the word. That's the question. The introduction of a state of emergency provides for restrictions on human constitutional rights and freedoms. What will result in the introduction of a state of emergency in six villages? I mean, now there's not going to be more than three of them at the syllabus, and that's going to help, say, the same birds? I feel like I need a job, not a pianist in elections, as it reminds me. So that's the question. Who gave the President such an original, you know, move to vote by visiting the hens and by demonstrating this, from which some are excited, caring for chickens, and all of this is shown on television. I mean, maybe you just have to work specifically, not put in a state of emergency in six villages, show it on TV against a background of chickens that won't vote? Thank you. LYZUN S.O. The work that has been done to this day has been quite systematic. I mean, in any case in that part that was relevant and it was clear that it was related to the danger of wild birds, of migratory birds, it was going on from September to June fairly systematicly. That is, there were no surprises or extreme situations in that part of our ministry or local authorities in order to mobilize or concentrate their efforts. Of course, in the situation that lies ahead, I can only confirm what the Minister of Emergency Situations and Health, the situation or the introduction of a state of emergency, and also from our positions, will allow us to take more rapid steps or concentration of funds. This is, for example, the use of some measure of the cases that I described above as illegal hunting. So we are convinced that this measure will allow us to work more effectively on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u117	Vladimir Muhan.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u118	Mukhin, Socialist Party. Stepan Alexiovich, I have a question. We know about the human flu, but we have never encountered such a new phenomenon for our nation and for the world as a bird flu. I mean, we know that this flu can mutate. Thus, if a person is infected, it can be dangerous for millions of people in our nation. I mean, it could be, uh, so-called Spanish, it was the flu when millions of people died on our planet. I mean, it's not just some MP talk here in the Supreme Council -- it's a very important question for our state. I believe that the President must be supported with regard to these measures that he proposes. And there's more. I'm counting on you to start the question today, and probably still, and next year, it's going to be the same thing. I mean, it's good to be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u119	I totally agree with you. I can also begin to finish your speech or question. That we've actually developed a whole program of operational measures that's strengthened and time-driven, with time-oriented strengthened financially so that this work is still not stochastic, and that's going to be a system of work, understanding all the importance of the issue that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u120	George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u121	George Manchulenko 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party. Stepan Alexiyovich, how do you appreciate the work of your structures located there in Crimea? That's the first question. Because above all, they had to respond to the relevant structures and your ministries, and the Health Ministry and the Ministry of Emergency Medicine, and veterinary medicine, so as not to force the President to go to the site, and they had to tell him exactly what the situation was, and what would be done soon, and not to seek the guidance of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which would take action there. So please make an assessment. And I have a second part of the question that concerns the Prime Minister of Ukraine. May he likewise evaluate these structures in their respective ministries — whether they have done their job or have failed. If they fail, who will be retired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u122	Thank you. As for the evaluation, I want to go back a little bit to the beginning of my answer that I was talking about earlier. The work was going on, starting only with the first signals we saw Mr. Baranowski talking about. As soon as Romania was signaled, all over Ukraine literally to all our authorities, the territorial authorities were instructed to step up their attention. As far as Crimea is concerned. It had exactly the same arrangement and the same focus on the issue that we are talking about with you today. Yes, there are questions, of course, because what we know today is from the press and from the information we are receiving today, that for a few days, days or weeks such information has been received and insufficient attention has been given. I think in the near future we're going to take a special look at this issue in the Ministry and give a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u123	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, as you and I have made a decision, 298 votes, I invite you for information by Verbicki Petr Ivanovich, Head of State Department of Veterinary Medicine, Chief State Inspector of Veterinary Medicine of Ukraine. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished Yuri Ivanovich, members of the government, distinguished national deputies! First of all, I have to say that there were no highly pathogenic avian influenza in Ukraine for 40 years. The last episode we had was in the 63st to 64s when in the territory of Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Herson, Zaporozhi regions was this episode on the head of ducks and geese, when hundreds of thousands of birds died. There was no case of human disease; there was no case of epizootic disease. And by the second of December this year, our country is free of this infection. Ukraine is a member of the International Epizootic Bureau, and we are constantly receiving official information about the epizootic situation in the world. And according to her, we're doing a little bit of private work. They consist, on the one hand, of banning imports into Ukraine of live birds, of poultry products, and this is what we have done in every state by telegram from the Chief Inspector of State. Ukraine, and that was done. The other one. We did epizootic and laboratory monitoring. This year, in view of the fact that the disease occurred in nine regions of the Russian Federation and then in Romania, Turkey, or states directly bordering Ukraine, we really saw the immediate threat to our territory after that disease. And I want to say that since the beginning of the year, the veterinary service has conducted 49,000 diagnostic tests on domestic birds, wild synanthropic and wild migratory birds. Including, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 4.9 thousand studies, and I want to confirm that so far, no cases of disease have been established, and I want to say that research has been carried out on the basis of modern equipment, based on international testing systems and international methods. The state’s veterinary service never avoids taking measures to prevent infectious diseases, especially the list (A), of the MEBs, which include highly pathogenic avian influenza. I mean, especially dangerous diseases. In each case, we have to inform the headquarters of the MEB for 24 hours. And what I'm saying is, really, with a bird mass in the Crimea, 11 million heads at the same time, and more than 20 million heads at the same time, there are cases of disease. Including in two areas in Soviet and Lower Gorgeous, these villages were sick in October and November. And I'm going to officially say that in these villages, birds have collected materials from the Lower Góra District 230 studies, according to Soviet 73 studies. In each case, the antibodies or the cause of the flu have not been detected, along with the evidence of poisoning the bird with poisoned grain. And there may also be other reasons not for non-infectious and infectious etiology. On November 25 of this year, Crimea’s national veterinary medicine received information that the village of Nepresto is marked by mass bird deaths. And in a few days, this disease appeared in the 45 yards of the 480s, where it's unsymptomatic, in the evening the bird is all healthy, in the morning the bird is all dead. This disease has begun. On 29th and 30th, it was in Jankojsky and Lower Gorski district. By the way, there were no diseases in those two villages in the Jankoi district before that. State Department. Research was conducted, research was carried out in the laboratory, and the State Department was placed before December 1st. On December 1, experts from a specialized laboratory came out. On December 2, we received material from the Central Laboratory, and on December 2nd, the evening was the previous diagnosis: highly pathogenic avian influenza strain H5. It's in and out of polymer methods and methods. chain reaction. So we have no doubt as to the correctness of the diagnosis. I want to reiterate that this is a November 25th diagnosis this year. Of course, we are obliged to conduct research at the Ref. Lab. And what I'm saying is that on the same day, we contacted the head of the Russian Federation, and yesterday, the material was sent to Volodymyr to do research at the Ref. Lab. In no other foreign state have we yet sent a ref material for one simple reason. Now we have an agreement with Webridge, Britain, where there's a ref center, but to get the material there, you don't have to take the blood, you have to get the isolation of the inducer. So we've infected the chicken embryos and we're preparing this material. There'll be material around this Sunday. And then they'll tell us it's either N1, or N2, or others. And I want to say, honourable national deputies, that all avian influenza viruses are absolutely safe for human health, including N5N1. N5 of the other N, the only time this virus mutates, then it can cause disease in the population. And I want to say that there is no case of avian influenza in America, Europe, and Australia. The last 4-5 years of the episode have been very serious, so it's spread in Southeast Asia and N5N1. During the 4-5 - year period, more than 2 billion people, five consecutive years of infection, reported 130 or 160 cases of human disease mutations and some 60 cases of human death. Therefore, there is no direct danger today for the population of Ukraine. In other words, the risk of tuberculosis is hundreds of thousands of times greater than the risk of avian influenza when the virus mutated. So after the diagnosis I informed the Minister of Agrarian Politics, before that, when there was a suspicion, it was about 17 o'clock December 1st and the head of the Extraordinary Anti-Episotic Commission, Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. Literally, five or seven minutes after my report that there's a suspicion in the media that there's something here, it means there's a serious situation. Three figures, after the diagnosis was established, were to be held by a meeting of the Extraordinary Anti-Epizootic Commission at the Cabinet of Ministers and, including in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I've been working for three days, so directly on the spot, and I want to say that, in fact, the main danger today is a live bird that can be a virososis for several months. So the sooner the bird is disposed of, the further the spread of the infection will be gone. We've delivered the necessary supplies, detechnics, specialty, experts, and more than 43,000 courtyards in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And I have to point out that today there is no direct danger from the output of the product that comes out of the factory of industrial production. It is absolutely safe in terms of highly pathogenic avian influenza. And I want to say prognosis. In fact, the migration of the bird is now declining and we predict that maybe in a few population locations, there might still be a manifestation, or maybe everything will be more or less calm by March of the month when there will be a new phase of migration. Alexander Petrovich Baraniovski said that there is no vaccine for disease prevention. I must say that there are very effective vaccines in the world that provide protection against this disease on the head of the bird, and the experience of Moldova and Romania has yet to say anything. Italy suffered from this disease because migration was on its way. For four consecutive years, in 2001, more than 4 million birds were killed and tens of millions of birds were killed. Since 2002, Italy has been inoculating. The vaccine against this disease still has four years of well - being. We believe that vaccination of the domestic bird in the region of Sivas, in the Danube Delta and Dnipro must be carried out for the future, and then we will have no new facts of such an episode. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u125	Sign up for questions. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u126	And taking advantage of the fact that there is a head of government in this room, Yuri Ivanovich, I very much ask you, an application for my resignation is in the government. I want you to sign my resignation order as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u127	I think you could have talked about it and not on the Supreme Council. Yes, please, 10 minutes, Verni Dubov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u128	Dear rapporteur, I really wanted to ask you to say what language they blame you for, what you did wrong, what happened. But here's the main question. Both the Minister of Health and you used as a medical definition, what happens is an epizootic, but this term as a basis for a state of emergency, there is no such term in the law, there are terms other than “pandemic”, “panzootic”. I'd like to ask, what do you think, really, is that we have such a situation that we have to introduce an emergency, your personal opinion? Or is that enough of the anti-epizootic measures you were talking about today? Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. I want to say that we're really dealing with an episode of a few population points today, which holds about 20,000 birds' heads. “Panzootia” is when an infection is spread in several areas or states, or several states, and it is in this that a large mass of bird’s head is involved. We have experience when in bird factories, New Castle's disease, it's no less dangerous, and so more contagious when it's suffering from hundreds of thousands of bird heads at the same time, it's taking measures and stopping the infection. I thank you very much for doing this work to the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Because it was this very bird - removal service that carried out very quickly. And as for the need for a state of emergency, I just have no right to comment on it. And how I realized that the fault of the veterinary service was that we had a late diagnosis. The diagnosis is if from the local service message, in five days, and if from the time of the arrival of the material to Kiev in one day, because Kiev has equipment for a polymerized chain reaction, a system of American production, and we're not wrong here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u130	Vladimir Novak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u131	I'd like to ask you a question like that. At least you made a deal with Minister Baranovsky, because the people who are listening to us from there today can't understand, is there a vaccine or is there a vaccine? Baranovsky claims that there is no vaccine, you claim that there is a vaccine. I understand from this statement that the most effective action you've made in the fight against avian influenza is your resignation statement. This is one moment. The other one. Tell me, please, because your speech today sounds like an expert, perhaps, who is dealing with the best of everyone here in this situation, the funds that are allocated, enough for the actions that we should take in Ukraine, or not enough? Is this some kind of pit? So how do you appreciate this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u132	Thank you. I want to say that the last two years of anti-epizootic funding by the government is being done satisfactorily. And that's enough for the veterinary service. And we get the money at the right time. But it doesn't include vaccination against highly pathogenic avian influenza. And we didn't think to vaccinate until the infection occurred in Romania near Ukraine’s borders. And once again, I want to say that, softly speaking, Alexander Petrovich does not have complete information about the existence of effective flu vaccines. Indeed, there is no need to use this vaccine at all. It is only on the head of a bird located in private courtyards, which is located in the area of the bird’s water where the bird migrates to a depth of 70 miles or 100 miles [70 or 100 km]. And this program needs maybe 15 to 20 million dollars. a bracelet in the territory of Odessa, Herson, Mikolai, Autonomous Republic of Crimea against this disease. But we didn't count because there was a firm position of our minister -- we don't have to do that, so the Moldovans, the Romanians said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u133	Please, Samowinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Martinovska Valerija Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u135	Please, Valery Martinowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Peter Ivanovich, you are known on the territory of the CIS and perhaps in the European veterinary community as a professional. Please tell me how this could have happened that you have been unable to fully perform your, well, functions for almost two months. The Minister has removed you, however you return, asked to write a statement and practically, two months later, you do whatever you want, and you do not work. I'd like you to state your reasons today. Are they economic, political, or are there any other reasons in this situation? And the second question is: as far as I know, next year's budget is substantial, not substantial, but it's reducing the allocation of funds to your department. Who it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u137	Thank you, I want to say that, really since 18, since October 18, I applied for my resignation, went on short-term leave, but the application was not satisfied during that period. I called her off on November 1st and started working. During this period, I was not given anything at the appeal board, which means that my deputies were invited. But I've been working, so, with my experts, I really think it's a bad job and I have to put an end to this situation. As far as next year's funding is concerned, we think that if it's not about this program separately for influenza vaccination, but I 7 insist that it be at least, within 15-20 million for these regions. The money is good, and we have a problem with maintaining a network of state-owned veterinary medicine institutions where we don't have 75 million dollars to pay the first option. So we have 411 bracelets on the net today. And we need to pick it up, so above and beyond, we are not charged with compensating this because the new legislation for this year reduces the provision of services in connection with the entry into WTO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u138	Mikola Joulinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u139	Mikola Joulinski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, the situation is extremely complex and serious and it is very pleasant that the President and the Government responded so quickly. And it is very surprising to me that our colleagues, who should be aware of all this complexity, are trying to make it a “regional” issue, that the “Beutiv” quack to grease the President, is the government instead of worrying about this serious problem. The problem is extremely complex. We can't even predict what mutations might be going on with these kinds of avian flu. We have to be ready for this. God forbid, this epidemic is going to spread, we're going to lose hundreds of millions of domestic birds, and it's a huge threat just to the vitality of the Ukrainian population. Because of this, I think we should really thank the government for its response. I'd like to say, by the way. Peter Ivanovich, I respect you very much, I know you as one of the best specialists in Europe in this problem. I would very much like our Prime Minister not to rush into signing his resignation. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u140	Yeah, it was a wish, I get it. Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u141	Please give Sas a word to Sergio Volodymyrovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u142	Sass Sergei's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u143	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Dear Peter Ivanovich, I think your speech was an example of how experts should speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. And this will be an illustrative example for both the government and all those present in the audience today. I wanted to ask you a few questions. Why have you as chief veterinarian not been asked by the minister for two months, and how does the minister of agropolitics, the agronomist, treat from the Supreme Council's rostrum specific absolutely things, understood everyone? Why weren't you invited to a trip to Romania, why wasn't that big assembly, the national party in Odessa, 500 people invited to invite you there? And who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u144	I want to say that here more answers should be given by the minister himself. There's been a conversation with a company that the veterinary service is a corrupt structure or a criminal organization. That was the first grade. Then it's suggested that you write a resignation application, which is what I did. And certainly, when a meeting was held in Odessa, both I and my first deputy were not invited there. And after the first of November, when I got out of work, I was practically isolated from decisions made at the level of the minister. And the last. I'm really surprised that Alexander Petrovich on television throughout the country is allowing himself to say that “prints of microorganisms”. There is no such term in virology, in microbiology, in bacteriology. And the agronomist, even with secondary education, knows that there are strains of microorganisms that cause plant diseases. And when an audience listens to this, do not give it to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u145	Thank you, Peter Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, Your Honor, please calm down, calm down. We're considering the issue of non-retirement, we're considering a more serious question. There's a motion for an inadmissibility order, Yuri Carmazin. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, when I was introducing this project, I was wondering if I could correct that bill that was given to us. Sadly, though, it cannot be fixed. This can only be done by the President, so draft legislation, I would like to inform you that the draft Ukrainian Law “On the Approval of the President’s Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crime” is unacceptable and subject to rejection because it has been adopted in violation of the requirements of paragraph 3, part 1, article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal regime of states of emergency”. In this article, “The President’s decree on the introduction of a state of emergency” states that the decree on the introduction of a state of emergency states the following: a justification for the necessity of imposing an emergency in accordance with article 4 of the law, the limits of the territory on which the state of emergency is established and, above all, the time from which the state of emergency, the state and the period of time on which it is imposed. The question of the expiration date is clearly set out in articles 7 and 8 of this Law. In article 7, a state of emergency may not exceed 30 days and not more than 60 days in separate locations. If necessary, the state of emergency may be extended by the President, but no more than 30 days. Presidential decree on the continuation of the state of emergency takes effect after its approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A state of emergency in Ukraine or in parts of Ukraine may be overridden by the President’s decree earlier on the date on which he was introduced in order to remove circumstances that made it necessary to introduce a state of emergency. It should also be noted that the timing of the emergency situation in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is not defined in order to meet the requirements of article 12 of this law. The activity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a state of emergency. Dear friends! I want to quote you in article 12 of this law, and you'll see what kind of legal colossality is waiting for us. It says here that in the event of a state of emergency in Ukraine or in certain parts of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to continue the session or its work in plenary sessions throughout the state of emergency. So do we need it? That's the first part, but there's the second part. Another part says that in the event of the end of the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the state of emergency, it continues until the day of the first session of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was elected after the state of emergency was lifted. So the point is that this time will pass, then the state of emergency will be lifted, then the Supreme Council will be elected, only then. And we're already in the pre-election race. So I would also like to warn you, honourable national MPs, and all of our societies of what might happen and remind you that not in one country where birds were victims did not receive an extraordinary condition or introduce an emergency. So, dear friends, I believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u147	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! As we agreed now, we will be representatives of the factions of the MP groups. I will now give the floor to Yuri Ivanovich, Prime Minister, please for three minutes. Prepare Michael Gladys, faction of Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u148	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I think that the draft of Law 8534-2, which was introduced by National MP Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, is fully addressing the issues that Deputy Carmazin has now raised. I would ask you to take this into account when voting. I think this document is fully in line with all the necessary requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u149	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Please, Michael Gladys, faction of the Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear Yuri Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! As we know, the decree is signed by the President and prepared by officials. In this case, the draft decree of the President of Ukraine on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea feels that it was prepared by a non-expert. And, to be specific, the agronomist, Mr. Baranovsky. We see a lot of grammatical errors there, more than 10 in this draft decree, legal errors, not taking into account the opinion of veterinary medicine professionals, and clearly established the President of Ukraine -- that's where the above-mentioned decree goes against the law. First. This is not the time from which the state of emergency is entered and for which time period is not specified. The other one. Not specified exactly what additional powers are given to the relevant authorities and local authorities. Third. It is unknown who has made proposals for the introduction of an extraordinary state or right under the law. We know the Council of National Security and Defence, the Cabinet of Ministers. The issue of non-proliferation, as was said today, and the elimination of highly pathogenic avian influenza was twice as professionally discussed at meetings of the state-owned, extraordinary anti-epizootic commission, which are clearly presented and carried out. I think in the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the department has quite enough weight to make an appropriate quarantine. I'd like to answer those MPs who are asking what we're criticizing this Presidential decree because it's a cautionary measure. What, though, are the consequences, dear friends? It should be noted that none of the countries in the world where highly pathogenic avian influenza was recognized were in a state of emergency. So what's the point of putting the president in today? We need to know that if we introduce an extraordinary state of law in Ukraine, we must immediately inform all the countries of the world, through the Secretary-General of the United Nations, of the situation in Ukraine. I don't want to talk today about how much this is going to have an economic impact on our nation. Dear friends! I would like to point out that the situation today with pathogenic influenza and veterinary medicine depends heavily on the actions of our minister, Mr. Baranowski. Today, it has been said that since October 20, the department’s head has practically been removed from management. Please tell me, in such a large country and in such a difficult environment, can we make operational decisions? I think that these incompetent decisions that have been made to date have led to this catastrophe, or quarantine. My dear friends, I think we have enough action against epizootics. The commission, and I'm not proposing to pass the law today. I'm proposing to the President to revoke his order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u151	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Reforms and Orders” faction. Prepare the Davimucci.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues! “A flight of flying birds, and I don’t want to fly away” takes on a completely different kind of morbid sound today, and, fully understanding the complexity that we have today, I would like to stress that we are with you as a society, as a nation, as a nation, too secure to the challenges that civilization today is giving to modern society. I'm thinking out of my mind. Let's say we had Chernobyl. I understand that one night, I broke this hammocked shirt on my fourth block, and the authorities kept it quiet, and they lied for a long time. And now, well, you and I knew, because the flu has been walking like this, literally, somewhere along our borders, in Romania, somewhere. Well, actually, we could be much more prepared today than we are today. On the run, we strain the horses, and on the move, we change the doctors who are supposed to do this. Because of that. Well, it's really some kind of signal that's very, very disturbing if you want. What surprised me the most about this situation is that I am simply a person, as a Ukrainian inhabitant, which I was most surprised to see: instead of all the media today starting to explain, to explain to people what it is, what it is to fear, and what it is not necessary to be afraid of today in Ukraine, how this threat came to us, we see, see, three or four days in a row, the uncles, the hens of such, mean that they go in this field form and carry their paws. Well, listen, it's so primordial, it's such an old day, if you want! Well, you had to explain it to people! I'm just asking the government today, well, look, we have the First National Channel, there are other channels, there's radio, there's newspapers. Well, somehow people need to interpret all of this. And in conclusion, I also think, my personal position, I would not today touch this man who was standing here in the rostrum, and in this I am absolutely supportive of Gladys. As for the adoption or non-adoption of the law, society, I am convinced that it must be adopted. So far it's local trouble. In order for it not to spread all over Ukraine, it should be stopped. Well, of course, I find these names, like Zaletlinski, “Sovietski”. Sometimes I start thinking, maybe it's a human curse?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u153	Please, Stephen Davymuk, faction of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Prepare Vasil Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u154	Stepan Davimuk, People’s Movement of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that our society is not fully aware of the danger and the extent of the threat that hangs over it. I want to remind you of the historical fact that the famous Spaniard began with the bird flu that brought American soldiers from the expeditionary corps into Europe who ate sick pig meat. Pasteur’s scientists, who have been constantly monitoring the N5N1 virus since 2003, have demonstrated its very dangerous properties. First. Since 2003, its aggressiveness has increased in terms of exponents. The second important fact is that the dynamics of male reproduction are increasing. Third. He is. It is totally not affected by the modern medicines that are currently being used. And that's why it's happening. The fourth factor that's already been mentioned is its high properties for mutation. I mean, there's going to be circumstances that the males will have mutations that will cause the transmission to create a virus that's going to be transmitted from person to person and we can have the phenomenon that they had in the early 20th century. So the danger for man is not just in this bird virus, but in that this mutation can be created. In Ukraine it seems to me that the climate is changing, and we have more and more birds staying for wintering, and in that, you know, now immobility, not discipline, and so on, there are, well, especially favourable conditions for such mutations, and that is exactly the greatest danger. So it seems to me that we need to create, in the fight against this bird virus, just the toughest regime, and the toughest regime is created by this state of emergency. So our faction will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u155	Vasil Gavriluk, “Trust of the People”. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u156	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich, members of the government! We're being watched by millions of telegraphers, listening to millions of radios. And once again, it will be a demonstration: we always scream that the government can't hear us, can't see us, but it's practically here today; and we see the attitude of our colleagues -- look closely at the sides. I would like to highlight some important details from the People's Trust Group. You know, everyone was expecting what was going on. Where did they look, what did they do? I am convinced that we have been able to prevent everything happening and speaking in advance today. Why and until when will a good Russian saying be: "Until the heel pecks, the man will not cross." Can't we just go from putting out fires to preventing consequences? It can be said that Ukraine was set up today, the President was set up, the Prime Minister was set up. And we have another beautiful Ukrainian face all over the world. We understand and know how important today is the picture for countries around Ukraine. What are the reasons? First of all, it is politics and the struggle between the factions in power for direct proximity to Yushchenko, or first place in chairs. The second is the total dismissal from all posts of the same 18,000 professionals or people who worked in power, and it turns out that it is not in the professional principle of substitution, but, for some reason, political. What's won of it and who's won of it is I think it's a big question for all of us. But since the State has us all, you see, and above all, people have been set up one more time. Should we take urgent, urgent and decisive action? The “Trust of the People” Group believes that they should do so immediately. Therefore, the first must be the adoption of the proposed draft Presidential Decree today. Second. To be able to determine the market price per goose, per chicken, and, we stress, the market value of our people so that our people do not remain fools and are not “turned” as always, by our State. Third. It is mandatory to place all “arms” in all the services that are required to work for people and for the country. And then we will see concrete and serious results. And I wish we didn't have, like always, extremes. Therefore, we support the line that the Prime Minister of Ukraine is leading today and believe that the best possible means should be allocated and that all possible and impossible measures should be taken to improve the situation. And I would like to emphasize once again that it is necessary to fight the swine. The Minister of Health was given only a third word and human health should be put first.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u157	Vladimir Cherniak, a faction of the Ukrainian People's Party, will be followed by Vladimir the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u158	Vladimir Černjak, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear colleagues, there are two questions that I have not heard the answer to. First. What measures were taken after October 9, when avian influenza was detected near Romania. Why did the pause last two months? Two months of silence, delay, inaction, and suddenly rape all over the world, the President's decree as thunder. Why so? Why is such a reaction, and who is responsible? And the second question. What additional measures are needed to successfully combat the episode? I also asked here, and I did not hear the answer, if we are talking about a state of emergency, exactly what extraordinary measures are needed. What is not enough to fight a successful, effective fight against an episode? Here are some questions that need to be answered. I think we need to put two emphasis points. First of all, whether it's necessary or not to introduce a state of emergency. There may be sufficient quarantine, effective use of conventional measures available. Secondly, if a state of emergency is to be introduced, the decree must be prepared in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the legal regime of state of emergency. As to whether a state of emergency should be introduced. The issue of non-proliferation and elimination of highly pathogenic avian influenza was considered twice professionally at meetings of the State’s Extraordinary Anti-Epizootic Commission at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are decisions to be made. An order was issued to the government on December 3 to pay compensation for the bird removed. What additional powers do we need? The Ministry of Emergency Situations, the State Department. medicine, something else? It should be noted that none of the countries in the world where the avian flu was detected was in a state of emergency. By the way, if we're going to make this decision, we have to let the UN know. These are serious things. And with regard to the conformity of this decree of the law. I don't mind the introduction or the decree at all. But the decree is unqualified. It has a conflict of law. No time specified for entering the law and for what term there are no additional complete ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u159	Thank you. Vladimir Rabbit, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u160	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Rabbit, Social Democrats. [[United]] Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Two months around Ukraine’s borders, a virus of avian influenza wanders. For two months, he was in power of time to take a series of proactive measures. Why they weren't -- the question of Ukrainian power, which is sitting in the government's bed today, not because the authorities were worried about something completely different, not because they were thinking about how the elections would go, how it would go, who would take place on a list, would probably not have enough time to deal with a serious matter. There is another reason that the authorities themselves have a business that has been unfavourable to distribute this information in order not to have any damage. So power was born two months later with a totally worthless legal document, not to the honor of President Yushchenk of Ukraine. As for the following situation, respectable colleagues. What counselors today have the President who are preparing him for such worthless legal documents, or other counselors who have forced him to go to that territory? Well, isn't this the president's business, your honor? It's a good thing they even regretted the President and didn't force him to remove those chickens and throw them in those bags. Dear colleagues! Is there something else that we are talking about today — what are we speaking about or not speaking about in the session room? If it's a veterinary thing. Please, come on in. Please, this is not a matter, not the Supreme Council's jurisdiction. But if we wanted to pout this topic and, including the President, we had to gather another category of people, such as: “Today’s Medical Association in Ukraine, we had to go and listen, or we had to gather representatives, or TB patients, or oncological patients, or child leukemia.” We are tired of listening to their appeals and complaints, the soul’s cry of inability to receive funds for treatment in such a difficult situation. So the honourable colleagues, the answer to our next and the position of the Social Democrats is exactly the same. We understand how important this question is if it can no doubt endanger human health. But if that happens, dear colleagues, a respected government, it is your personal responsibility if at least one person dies. Equally, if it's a panic you've caused today because of your unprofessional actions, it's also your responsibility. Well, and, of course, voting today is a state of emergency on the basis of such a short decree issued by the President -- a violation of the law on the legal regime, of course, cannot. But to avoid speculation that the social Democrats are not concerned about the health of citizens, I think Adam Ivanovich, we are ready to support any serious action, including an extraordinary state, but if all the documents are prepared for this, according to current legislation. [[United]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u161	Paul Sulkovski, a faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine, prepare Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u162	Dear Chief, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! Today we are wondering whether we should approve the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine's decree to introduce a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The faction of Ukraine's Party of Regions has always felt that this is not a single document as similar as the President's decree today is insufficiently prescribed. Its items do not contain specific tasks, but are of general significance. The document does not have a date and a time limit for the operation of this decree. Moreover, the Ukrainian President’s decree does not have sufficient grounds. Regrettably, we see such similar documents in front of us. And it's a very interesting thing, how many experts, how many services the President of State has and the Miniust, the Minister of the Head of State to find the time, he has days to judge the Piscot in court, and here, where the people of Ukraine really need to be protected, there is no time for Mr. Head to help the President draw up a beautiful document so that there is no doubt in the Supreme Council. I think that my dear friends in Russia were also the victims of this disease, but no extraordinary condition was introduced in Russia. They did it at the state level, they did it calmly, they didn't do it in Russia and so on. There are few tanks that have not been sent to Crimea to this day. It's a shame, I think, that kind of government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should speculate today. We must put Yashchenka’s shoulder on one more occasion, indeed, because his team is practically unable to, rather than helping Ukraine to bring order and to give life to Ukrainian citizens at a serious level. Especially on the eve of Christmas New Year's Eve. So, dear friends, I think we need to think seriously, and perhaps we need to be supported, we would like to not do that, the decision of Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who is proposed. And I would like, dear friends, these funds that will be allocated, to be seriously entrusted to the account room today, to take personal control of the spending of these funds. And compensation for the loss of a bird should be paid only at the market price, not as reported today. And that's why I'd like to thank Mikola Joulinski, who today has really supported the entire world of Verbite.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction, prepare Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u164	Lilia Grigorovich, Viktor Yushchenka faction “Our Ukraine”. Dear participants in today's thematic extraordinary session, distinguished voters, distinguished radio audiences, there are 41 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, there is a law on the legal regime of states of emergency, there is an extraordinary situation in the six settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, there has been a precedent in the last three years, the spread of the avian influenza epidemic on the planet. In view of this, I believe that the President's proposed decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is an adequate and absolutely state-based, correct response by the President of Ukraine to the situation that is taking place in Ukraine. I would like to point out that it is precisely the introduction of a state of emergency in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that I think is coming out of the President's decree, which is absolutely appropriate, because the geography of this area itself, when it comes to the introduction of the state of emergency, allows it to block the spread of the epidemic from other parts of Ukraine on the one hand and allows it to minimize these processes in the local territory. The report, which came from the Ministry of Health, is very clear and shows how many people live in these locations, how many of them are examined, how many and how many vaccines have been given to these populated sites to stop and minimize the epidemic and its spread. Dear friends, unfortunately, I've listened to a lot of speakers, and I have to say that absolutely adequate government measures even here in this room still come upon a situation called elections. I can imagine if suddenly this epidemic, without being localized by the President's proposed decree, was spread in the southern region on the central axis of Ukraine's mud. I can imagine what an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council would be like, I can imagine what pathetic speeches would be like, and how everyone would be happy for the same fatherhood. Therefore, dear friends, the proposed decree is adequate, timely, it is the position of the guarantor of all rights and freedoms, including the health of the nation in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to mention to some of our very safe officials who had already experienced the Chernobyl tragedy in the last 86th century, in the last century, who were just as safe, paraded their children, said that everything would be okay, they were riding bikes, and Ukraine couldn't get rid of Chernobyl syndrome for 15 years. So, dear friends, I propose to uphold the law's draft decree for the introduction of a state of emergency in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I want to emphasize to the people of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that we are witnesses today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u165	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. And Igor Sharov will pass it on to him. Six minutes, please. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! As you know, the geese saved Rome. A thousand years later, Ukrainian hens drew the attention of the current authorities to the real problems of Ukraine, to the real problems of our people. Perhaps at least the hens will save the people of Ukraine from the policy of genocide over the past 15 years, 15 years, so-called country independence. The reports heard and measures taken at the initiative of the Government indicate the insolvency and inability of the authorities to deal with specific problems. Consideration of a state of emergency also shows the whole cynicism of power. On the one hand, it is non-professionalism, because there are no measures to be taken to address all these problems, there is a reference to monitoring, i.e. it will stand by and watch how the people of Ukraine die together with the chickens. On the other hand, I would like to recall that, on 8 November of this year, the Supreme Council has adopted a law on the introduction of a moratorium on the importation of bird meat from abroad. Why am I talking about cynicism? Because President Yushchenko imposes a veto that is justified by the following position: the introduction of a moratorium on the introduction into Ukraine of bird meat may have a negative impact on Ukraine's accession to WTO. That is, the life of Ukrainian citizens is not of interest to him personally and his team. The decree does not reflect that the problem has become national, there are no clear mandates and specific measures why? Because we have to talk, not about natural cataclysms, but about man-made, that is, regrettably, the mind that has no limits when it comes to personal enrichment. In 2003, 10,000 people were killed with inadequate vodka in Ukraine. Because of the gravest violations of safety regulations, hundreds of miners die each year. Weapons depots are systematically exploded, rockets enter homes, foreign aircraft are shot down, and tanks are fired at barracks by their own soldiers. In the Nikolaev region, there is a massive disease caused by chemical poisoning. As a result of the United States of America experiments, hundreds of children from Ukraine were infected in the Yavoriv region. The annual mass poisoning of children by dairy products, the tragedy at the Sknilov airport, is also a confirmation. Tuberculosis has acquired the extent of the threat. This is almost the number of people who are sick — already an epidemic in our country. That's what the doctors acknowledged. And the state of emergency to get the country out of this situation and to solve problems of how to feed people and how to treat them from tuberculosis is virtually non-acceptable. The incidence of AIDS, particularly among young people, has been catastrophic. The forests of Zakarpatya have been cut down, and there have been real threats of permanent flooding of a large area of the region. During the years of independence, Ukraine has opened a new market segment: trafficking in persons: women and children. Is it not an emergency for a Government that should have introduced it long ago? The horrendous numbers of those killed as a result of the accident and those killed by order are tens of thousands a year. Thus, whatever issue we are considering, the actions of the authorities and Governments pose a real threat to the people of Ukraine. Today, these threats have also increased in connection with Yushchenko's commitment to the West. They're taking everyone out. They're exporting everyone from Ukraine. They're being exported for nothing. They open borders for scrap metal and livestock. Today, all that is done is to fulfill these promises, so to speak. But also promises to import Bush's legs into Ukraine. Why don't you let the Americans eat them? What are you bringing here then? Why was it not closed so as not to destroy the people of Ukraine? Thus, it was clear that the state of emergency had to be introduced since 1991. Because they're destroying the bird, they're giving 15 bracelets of cash today. Because we have a very quaint power, and we've allocated 15 million dollars to it, I think there's a million chickens that are going to be destroyed to write down these 15 million in these six villages. Individuals should be held accountable for criminal negligence. I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers today. Should you not take measures to punish those who have not responded in time? And what would have to be done. First. This is, of course, the full provision of health facilities to all those needed in these settlements and, in particular, the establishment of additional health facilities, the guarantee of quality food for schools and hospitals and for all those in need. Instead of 15 bracelets for a destroyed chicken, after proper treatment of the territory, it is necessary to issue a new section of birds imported from areas that are not infected, because there is a need to feed families there today, so let's say live real. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister again today. How to treat the Minister of his own Cabinet of Ministers, who declares: “It is better to suckle one bull than to keep one scientist.” This is the future of Ukraine. This is stated by the Minister of the Agro-industry complex in public. This is the answer to the question of what is happening to Ukraine. In Ukraine, they destroy their own people, intelligence and genocide policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u167	Thank you. Basil Nadrag, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, members of the Lithuanian People's bloc are prepared today to support the bill sponsored by Martinuk Adam Ivanovich, 8534-2. Why? Because we think that in a problem like the Avian Influenza epidemic, it's better to act logically than not to catch up. I would also like to point out that we also have a view of a number of processes that are under way at this point. Well, first of all, I'd like to draw attention to some disagreement and perhaps even the illogicality of the actions. We have a state emergency anti-epizootic commission at Kabmin. She's headed by the Deputy Prime Minister. It is composed of representatives of the CDM, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Minargopolitics, Minhvoda, Minfina and, most amazingly, it works and works as it is laid down and does as it is laid down. This raises the question of why the President should have set up another commission. The only thing I can say is that there are no specialists on this committee. Specialists of the profile for which, in large accounts, this commission has been established. There are no representatives of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine. And that's the question. Why? Because, with such success, a commission created by the President's last decree, if added to it by the Ministry of Culture, can do some kind of festival. Next moment. We're talking about the fact that today all of this is being twisted, in our opinion, just for one, to make noise to remove the inconvenient Mr. Baraniwsky and his company Verbicki, head of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine. Examples? Please, I want to show you this thick enough bill on Kabmin's orders. It was developed in mid-October, signed and subsequently subjected to very severe criticism, including by Baraniwski, to the point that it was not necessary to allocate money and deal with avian influenza. Let's move on. On 29 October, there was a letter addressed to the President, signed by the Minister of the APC on the implementation of the President's decree, which I read literally. “The epidemiological situation regarding highly pathogenic avian influenza as of 29 November of this year is stable and controlled.” So everything was good to 29. I read here about what the media reported, including on 20 October, that we have, as the Minister has said, no vaccine, and money wants to spend it on ourselves. As a result, there is a very interesting thing: until the thunder broke, we had everything good, and the department did whatever it was and offered it to the State anyway. When it became clear that something was to be done, it turned out that there was no one else to work with. I wouldn't want to tell you a long story here, but I'll give you one example. The U.S. Senate allocated $7.3 billion in dollars to avian influenza. We've got 15 million worth of money. I'm not going to talk about the tens of millions of dollars that the Poles and everyone else have allocated. You can say one thing, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Representatives of all factions who wanted to speak and registered received such a right. So let's sum it up. Before we go to the vote, there's a whole series here, including the decision on inadmissibility, I'd like to draw your attention to the following. I think we're all a solid and vast majority, and almost everyone who participated in the discussion, who asked the questions, was the only one who really had to fight the trouble that had come, unfortunately, to our borders. And as we come out of the threat that this danger poses, we need to adopt a law to support the President's decree to introduce a state of emergency. But at the same time, absolutely right are those of the national MPs who say that, unfortunately, and the reporter here admitted that, in fact, it was being prepared in a hasty way, it was being prepared for the first time in such a situation, they got caught up, they didn't pay attention to a whole range of details, particularly what was involved in the Law on the Legal regime of the state of emergency, which clearly and clearly provided for the President's decrees on the introduction of the state of emergency. That is, for how long, from which time, and for what time limit, a state of emergency has been imposed, there is, unfortunately, no indication of time in the decree. The law that I am referring to, and which is quite much here in argumenting the inadmissibility of Yuri Anatoliyevich, speaks of a state of emergency throughout the territory being imposed by a term of up to 30 days. In separate territories, it can be entered within 60 days. That's different. Article 6 of the Law on Legal Status also states that it should be immediately noted that the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens are limited in relation to the introduction of state of emergency. Perhaps it is appropriate to limit in this case the extent to which it is an epidemic of some kind, to limit mass gatherings of people, to restrict movement from one territory to another, and so forth. This law provides that appropriate decrees are required, and then the Law on the Extraordinary Status of Power to the relevant authorities, including military formations, and so on, either active or unemployed and a host of problems. And I think let's do it this way. I'll put to the vote all draft regulations and laws, but it's probably right that we're going to ask the President to issue another decree to take into account the terms of the law, and we're going to essentially accept the final position of this law, and so we can settle the situation as far as we're concerned, as they say, and in order to settle it legally, so that we don't have any collegiates. [[For, God forbid, all things may be. A bird’s flu can turn into another flu]] That's it. And one more observation. I think there's a draft of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek's law here, I think we can agree to it. From the procedure? Now we're going to look at the procedure, because there's more to the decision that it has to do with it. Please, Simonenko microphone. About his bill. And let's be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u170	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you to support Project 8534-1, not as a draft Ukrainian law, but as a draft decree, by deleting 1 paragraph “to approve the President's Order” because we will vote in another project 8534-2. And here the other points are: the Cabinet's information to be known, the work to be considered unsatisfactory; the Cabinet of Ministers to analyse the work of the heads of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster; to make appropriate decisions on their personal responsibility for the state of affairs in the field. And ask the Attorney General's Office to study the reasons that led to the spread in Ukraine of avian influenza, which is to view it as a draft decree and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So we agreed that we would vote essentially two draft decrees and we would vote on two draft laws. I'd like to take a look at how we can get out of this to some degree and the legal colossion in a proper manner. I'm voting on the draft decree of Jury Karmazin 8534 on the non-admissibility of the Act on the legal regime of states of emergency. I'd like to make a statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] The author has the right to submit, so everything will be according to the Rules, honourable colleagues. [[14:53:47]] For-9 About the inadmissibility of nine national deputies, although I repeat the argument, it has the right to exist. I am voting for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the Presidential Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, registration number 8534. I'd like to make a statement. The author is the President. [[14:54:35]] For 201 The factions, please. “Regions of Ukraine” – 1, Communists – 0, People's Party – 33, “Our Ukraine” – 39, Block of Timoshenko – 5, Socialists – 25, Ukrainian People's Party – 23, People's Party – 19, Social Democrats – 1, “Trust of the People” – 13, “Reforms and Order” – 13, “One Ukraine” – 1, People's Movement – 14, Industrial and Business Party – 10, non-fractional – 5. Law enforcement colleagues, I am voting on the Ukrainian Law on the Approval of the President's Decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, registration number 8534-2, in which the first paragraph approves the law, the second that it takes effect from the date of its publication and in the third, to recommend to the President of Ukraine that the introduction of an exceptional state foresees, inter alia, a temporary restriction of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, an order that is immediately submitted to the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a mandatory determination within the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which imposes an extraordinary state of emergency, an order for which it is restricted, and a number of extraordinary measures and a comprehensive review of the constitutional rights and freedoms of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of question. Please vote. [[14:56:46]] For 291 The law is passed. Thank you. And it does. The factions, please. "Regions of Ukraine" – 20, Communists – 55, National Party – 37, "Our Ukraine" – 37, Block of Timoshenko – 21, Soccer – 16, Ukrainian People's Party – 20, People's bloc – 19, Social Democratic Party – 1, "Trust of the People" – 16, "Reforms and Order" – 14, "One Ukraine" – 2, People's Movement – 14, "Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs" – 14, non-fractional – 5. [[united]] We passed the law and there's still a decision, a draft decree. Wait, we'll finish, and then you'll be out of procedure. Let us finish the vote, then it is in order of day, is in order of day according to number 8534-1, but the author of the proposal said: “He understands that this is no longer a matter of law, but of decision. He suggests that the law be passed, not the law, but the decree. So I'm voting on the first paragraph. With the deletion of the first paragraph, because we have already adopted and approved the President's decree on "The state of emergency", I am voting on the adoption of the decree on the Ukrainian President's decree on the introduction of a state of emergency in the settlements of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea." Registration 8534-1. Authors: Simonenko, Male. Please vote. It's like determination. [[14:58:39]] For 184 Not accepted. The factions. The Communists are 56, the Ukrainian People's Party is 17, the People's Party is 41, our Ukraine is 0, the Timoshenko Block is 13, the Socialists are 1, the Ukrainian People's Party is 0, the People's Party is 19, the Social Democrats are 18, the People's Trust, the Reforms and Orders are zero, the One Ukraine Party is 11, the People's Movement of Ukraine is 0, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 1, the Postfaction Party is 7. For reasons, please write this down. Please, five minutes of motivation, and we'll finish our question. Please, Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, distinguished officials! Taking advantage of the opportunity that, however it may be, they've come out, given the government, the proper structures to guide order, and let God really help them. And I would like to refer once again to Minister of Agrarian Politics Alexander Petrovich. You have to do everything you can -- this is the opinion of our committee, the Agrarian Committee on Land Relations. and land relations in the Supreme Council, which we ask you to do: do not, by any means, remove from the post of Mr. Verbicke and convince the President of that, because this is the case for today, we have examples where experts have been expelled, placed in their places without the experience of the people -- and Ukraine has only lost. So, Alexander Petrovich, I ask you once again to do everything you can to get Mr. Verbicki to work and convince Mr. President of this. Retirement from Verbitsky cannot be accepted, for it will be for Ukraine alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u173	This is done by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, not by a decision or by an order of the President. Please, Anastasia's Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u174	I'd like to give Peter Mikolaiovich Simone a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u175	Please, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, when I speak to you about supporting the draft Law that we are introducing with Omelan Nikonovich Parubk, I would like to argue once again that it is necessary to increase the responsibility of specific officials for everything that is going on in the state. A specific minister must be responsible for what he does. And in this case, idleness was a nuisance, and these are crimes against the people of Ukraine. As with the Henprosecutor's appeal to the Henprosecutor's Office, why do we have such circumstances, when no one is responsible, do not take measures at the right time to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens. That's why I'm addressing you, Adam Ivanovich, and I'm addressing you, dear colleagues. If you please, let's vote this out as a draft decision that says that the government has to figure it out and the Henprocurator should also take action.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u177	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u178	Vasily Nadrag, Lithuanian People's Block. Our faction and our deputies supported the introduction of an emergency situation in the Crimea and we believe that this is the right thing to do. However, I would like to reiterate the attention of both the Parliament, the President and the Government and the First Vice-Prime Minister, who was present here and the Prime Minister, who had listened to the whole question. Yes, the subject is complex, the topic is responsible, it needs to be addressed, but, in any case, we must not allow anyone under. Addressing global problems to address the problems of who likes, who dislikes and, accordingly, how to reconcile accounts with specific people. Therefore, we believe that the issue of exemption from the position of head of veterinary medicine, in this case, is not only untimely but simply harmful and harmful not so much to the Government or to Parliament, but harmful to the country. This should not be forgotten when making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Motherland. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am convinced that we have not made the right legal decision. But let's do this, if you've accepted it, think about how to get out of it. I would like you to raise article 12 of the law on the legal state of emergency and implement it clearly. “In the event of a state of emergency in Ukraine or in its separate areas”, and we have introduced them, “the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to continue the session or its work in plenary meetings throughout the period of emergency.” So, Your Honor, I welcome you, Adam Ivanovich, with great stupidity. Tomorrow we have a session to continue, a job, please announce the agenda, everything else. Again I ask you, read the laws that work, read the night, read the day, and listen, if you do not know how to read. Because it's a big, big, bad thing they've done now. And they didn't see it coming. And another question. Let's go to CBC and see how.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u181	Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u182	Please give Sasu Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u183	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u184	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I wanted to address you again on the matter of procedure. We have already considered the question. That's why we can't turn the draft law into a draft regulation right now. Because the decision of the Supreme Council has already been taken on this matter. And so that we don't make a whole bunch of mistakes that have already been made today on the matter of procedure that was emphasized by National Deputy Carmazin, I propose that we close this meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-12-06-m0.u185	That's what we're gonna do. Dear colleagues! Well, perhaps Yuri Anatolyovich is very concerned today. He sees to it that we observe the letter and the spirit of the law. Please read the article on which you refer, article 12. Read and explain the difference between a session and a plenary session. We're in session. We're in session. The session will continue until mid-January. We're in sessional work all the time. The other thing is when we hold plenary meetings. And when we work in the districts, or when we work in the committees. And the session is going on, and we haven't broken anything if it were written about plenary meetings, I'd say there's a plenary session tomorrow. That's the first one. Second, Yuri Anatolyovich. We accepted the final position in which we addressed the President to determine the term for which he was appointed. So when he does, then we'll also be able to identify ourselves with you. That's one thing. The other one. The term must not exceed 60 days. You and I, our session today, are going to work for over 60 days, more than that. So, Yuri Anatolyovich, let's not be, you're a good lawyer, but don't mislead the people. At this, my fellow Members, I declare an additional meeting of the Supreme Council closed. We continue to work on committees, factions and groups, and the next plenary session will take place next Tuesday. Good luck.
