ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the Rada system. We're registering. [[16:00:43]] There were 406 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. There is a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding the responsibility for violations of electoral legislation. Bill registration numbers: 6096, 6418,6419, 6444. Yes, and from the drafters of the bill, because there are many of them co-authoring the bill, and from the Committee, I give the floor to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Maria Andriyevni Markusz. Please give me five minutes to present these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u2	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. Dear, Chief, distinguished colleagues and listeners, I am pleased that I have this confidence to report to other authors of the legislative initiative besides me. Four bills, and that's why I'm proposing these bills to you. Draft Law No. 6096 of the Ukrainian National Deputy Grachev proposes that article 157 be supplemented by a new part in which criminal responsibility is foreseen for the bribery of the electorate in various forms, both by the citizen of his own initiative, or by persons on behalf of the candidate, as well as candidates for the presidency, candidates for the national MPs, their trusted persons, candidates for the various levels of council and their trusted persons or candidates for the positions of rural, village, city heads and their trusted persons, representatives of parties and trusted persons from parties and constituencies. Bill No. 6480 of the Legislature is designed by Markusz, Carmazin, and Bandurka. It is proposed that the Code of Administrative Offences be supplemented by a new Chapter 15a, “Administrative Offences”, which violate the exercise of national will and the establishment of an order for its security. This chapter is proposed to be supplemented by 16 articles: article 212 - violation of the procedure for reporting and use of voters; article 218 - violation of public awareness of the list of voters; and 212 - prime. 9 Infringements in the introduction of pre-election agitation with the use of the media; 212 p.m. 10 Violations of Pre-election Agitation Restrictions; Article 212, para. 11 failure to disprove the misrepresentation of information common to the subjects of the electoral process; 212 p.m. 12 violations of the right to use the premises during the electoral campaign; 212 p.m. 13 Production or distribution of anonymous, agitating, printed materials; Article 212 pr. 14 Disruption of the distribution of information and communication materials; 212 p.m. 15 unlawfully providing financial or other material support to the electoral campaign; 212 p.m. 16 Use of money or receiving material support from the electoral campaign outside the electoral fund; Article 212, cf. 17 failure to provide a protocol for the calculation of votes in the field; 212 p.m. 18 Ordering or making electoral ballots more than a fixed number; 212 p.m. 19 non-use of the electoral decision, failure of the electoral commission; 212 p.m. 20 refusal to release a member of the electoral commission from the work or service of the commission at the time of the commission’s mandate. And by article 212 pr. 21 "Disruption of the established procedure for the publication of documents relating to the preparation of the elections" and article 212 pr. 22 “Contravention of referendum legislation”. So this is all of the actions that were listed in the election laws and that are forbidden to do, but there were no absolutely. no administrative or criminal responsibility has been established for the violation of such acts. Bill 6444, which is thematically related to Bill 6419 "On Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine", sets out which organs of pretrial investigation should investigate criminal offences under articles 159 prima. 1,159 p.m. 3 The Criminal Code. In addition, Bill 6419 foresees, refines, and introduces a new form of both basic and additional punishment, the removal of electoral rights, and the right to hold office in election committees, or to engage in electoral activities. This is the introduction of correctional work and the avoidance of voting rights, the modification of sanctions for obstructing the free exercise by citizens of their electoral rights, the falsification of electoral documents and the falsification of voting summaryes, the breach of voting secrecy. But to supplement the Criminal Code with articles on responsibility for violating the funding of the candidate’s electoral campaign, electoral union, constituency, obstruction of electoral agitation, and illegal use of active electoral law. That is, all these bills will strengthen the protection of the electoral rights of citizens and increase the responsibility for violating Ukraine's electoral laws. They're not going to need any extra budget spending, or they're going to act as budget-fulfilling bills. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine On the issue of law enforcement, all these bills have been considered. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of these bills as a basis. Please, your Honorable colleagues, who have repeatedly witnessed in the session room complaints that the rights of the electorate have not been violated once, and this has been the subject of discussion here, now to support these bills for the purpose of non-admission in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u3	Thank you, Maria Andriyevna, for the meaningful and specific report. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Puzakov, the Communist faction, prepare Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u4	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This year's presidential election in Ukraine has given us all a great lesson, once again showing how cheap authority has been won by presidential candidates. The election campaign was about fighting representatives of two criminal and oligarchic clans who had the same social and class base and common goal. The election was not a competition for programs, principled positions on a number of important national issues. The voters were dealing with the primitive promises of candidates, where they found it difficult to identify 25 candidates who had difficulty finding any differences. Regrettably, in the vote of voters, this year’s candidates displayed unprincipled adaptations, copied political slogans to their competitors, or entire pre-election programs, especially social programs that are always offered only by Communists. Before the 2006 parliamentary elections, we must consider a number of gross violations that occurred during the presidential election campaign. And today's drafts should also stand up for this lawlessness. There is no doubt that the next parliamentary election in Ukraine will again be followed by a hybrid of the American and European political system. This can certainly be said today. At present, there are about 100 registered political parties in Ukraine, but most are not effective and influential political forces, such as the Communist Consequential Party in its ideology. That is why they will be united into blocks. The law would have to provide for this. Since this is a registered political party, it should go to elections on its own, not on a foreign horse in a paradise. And another reason why we still have prisons, S.I.S.O., psych wards, colonies. Is that so in other countries? The result is known to be 100 percent of the vote for the required MP or party. I support the amendments made to these bills, which provide for the criminal responsibility of persons for obstructing the exercise of the electoral right of citizens. These laws will help to eliminate the unconformity of electoral legislation. Their adoption should be coordinated by Ukraine’s electoral legislation and Ukraine’s legislation on criminal liability for its violation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u5	Please, Vladimir Novak, Communist faction. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u6	Vladimir Novak, Communist faction, Hmelničina. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, dear voters. Ukraine’s Criminal Code establishes criminal responsibility for a crime committed against the electoral rights of citizens. But the President’s recent election showed that no laws or codes were written for the former authorities, as in a well - known proverb. So it's perfectly natural, I think, that there's a number of drafts that have been tabled today for the consideration of our session. It was in these elections that the authorities, while losing access to government food, devised such schemes that normal people do not think clearly. I think it would be right to consider and adopt all four bills on the first reading today. At the same time, there are a number of observations. Thus, Project 6418 proposes that the protocols for the commission of administrative offences be composed of members of public formation from the protection of public order. But it's not clear how to make such a protocol. Who will put a member of public formation in the knowledge of the violation? I believe that it is necessary to expand the list of persons who have the right to make protocols on administrative offences in elections. Project 6419 proposes to establish responsibility for the production and distribution of advertising materials at the expense of funds that do not come from the pre-election fund of the candidate or the block. As practice has shown, this is the most common disorder. We need to define clearly the concept of "aggressive materials." It is not available in practice, since a number of materials distributed during the election campaign can be both advertising and advertising. I think it would be appropriate to impose restrictions on the content of the adage materials, the form and the manner in which they are distributed and to foresee sanctions for violations of these standards. Finally, I would like to point out this: These laws must be adopted. You have to do everything you can to make them work. The practice of holding presidential elections last year has shown a wide range of possibilities for violating the electoral rights of citizens. How much noise was raised in the press, on television, on the radio about this. Sneaking, lying, faking, and so forth! Who took responsibility? Where is the effectiveness of these laws? It is impunity that gives birth to crime. We need to keep that in mind. If officials feel responsible for their actions before the law, we will have a truly fair election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u7	Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u8	Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! We are now considering, at first glance, how this is not a very difficult question, but we are amending the Criminal Code for violations that may be allowed in elections, including the President, including local elections and election of national deputies. As a national deputy to me from the opposition that's been going through this election, and in my mind what it's like to go from opposition to majority and how to get through it, and how financially and morally it needs to be done, I would like to say that it's very difficult for me to believe that the new authority that came today and declares that elections will be fair, then, if I believe it, it's not necessary to adopt such a law. And if you don’t believe it, it won’t help. One thing arises, one hope only arises: that people who have already believed that a fair election can be held, who have believed that it is possible that they themselves may not go into this forgery, considering what can be done. I would like to say that there are a lot of observations about the laws that we are considering today, but these observations can be made. For example, the wording of article 157 of the Criminal Code has already established responsibility for these violations, and they simply need to be brought into line. For example, there are forms, such as, understandably, what kind of mechanism such as this is. the setting up of such protocols, the formation, and the further implementation of this protocol, where and to whom it is to be passed, there is no form. It should be noted that the establishment of criminal responsibility for the exercise of an active electoral right by a person who does not have that right indicates that several times a person can drop the ballot, his responsibility is not discussed here. And if we take those questions off, we can take all the laws and then one whole. I just want to thank the authors of these laws today, who hope for a fair election in our country, but life will show, and you and I will still be witnesses that this is not the case at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u9	Please, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! If it were not for elections, democracy would be an ideal form of social order, if it were not for elections, democracy would not be a price. All over the world, democracy is being corrupted by elections, especially in post-totalitarian countries, where democracy has not yet been and where democracy is only being formed. This is true of Ukraine. In the entire civilized world, forging election results is considered to be one of the most serious crimes, just like killing a person, because it is essentially a murder of choice. And why did the world respond positively to the orange revolution because the Ukrainian people responded to the violation of that right and defended their right to choose? In view of the fact that there are violations and they need to be minimised, I think that virtually no one has been able to remove them, but at least to minimize the violation of electoral legislation, there is a need to amend the electoral laws. And that's exactly what we're talking about right now. They're focused on two main points. The first point is to remove disagreements in electoral legislation, and this is the sacred duty of Parliament. Very often our laws conflict with each other, or some novels in the laws conflict, and we need to eliminate disagreements, and this is a routine but necessary work for Parliament. And that's what this bill is about. And second, even more important: to increase criminal responsibility for violations of electoral legislation. This is extremely important because impunity stimulates wrongdoing. And we've practically never had a time to be punished for it. And it is here that criminal responsibility is proposed, to amend the Criminal Code for specific violations of electoral legislation. And so we're going to eliminate impunity. It is encouraging that the Attorney General's Office now has criminal cases against those who forged the election of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u11	Thank you. From the motive of Lechchenko, a minute. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u12	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, in my opinion, all four bills should be adopted. But there are certain doubts. The old authorities are said to be dishonest. Right, there have been major violations, and the rooster in the Supreme Council has been chosen with these violations. The new government is said to be honest. I don't believe it, because you know how much election fund was outrun. Let's be honest about how much they used. A specific example. In the village of Jaduti, where I met with the voters, two big money revolutionaries came home. Drinking, walking, and committing crimes Their eyes burn as if they took God by his beard. The local authorities had to ask the police to order the district inspector. Or the next one. They're the ones who came from here. Or the next one. A U.S. senator speaks out, and he resents that a lot of money has been spent on it. So I suggest that you accept in the first reading. Only the question is, who's the judge now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u13	Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Registration number 6096. Please vote. [[16:20:30.]] For 165 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Registration number 6418. Please vote. [[16:21:03]] For 180. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Registration number 6419. Please vote. [[16:21:35]] For 193 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 4444. [[on responsibility for violations of electoral law]] Please vote. [[16:22:08]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Let's get all the bills re-readed and have the committee make one out of these four projects. Please vote. [[16:22:43]] For 265 You and I have made a wise decision. The drafts are sent for re-reading with the commission of a profile committee for re-first reading to prepare one summary of these four bills. We are considering the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, the registration number of Bill 6111. [[on the period of service for the appointment of a pension]] The bill was drafted by national deputy Volinec Mikhailo Yakovic. I'd like to have a word with you. From the committee to prepare Bulby Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u14	Mikhail Volinec, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! This bill I wrote with my colleague, National Deputy Kiril. At 48 years of age, I remember very well when I served in the mid-1970s and when it was honorable to serve in the army and when the state cared for its soldiers. We had such a sad situation when the Pension Insurance Act was adopted, we had aid for soldiers who had worked in mines before, and then returned without interruptions, returned to underground work in mines. And one after the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Retirement of Time Counting, the conduct of the military service was not legally secured. In its time, it was settled in the Ministry of Social Protection of the Ukrainian Peoples’ Ministry, number 2 of March 26, 1993, which stipulated that the time spent in the military service was included in both the general service and the internships, which gave rise to the right to benefits on extended terms and benefits. If, at the time of the enlistment, a person worked for a profession or took up a position to provide for such benefits. Yet, on January 1, 2004, this explanation became invalid on the basis of an order from the minister, the minister of employment, and social policy. Thus, the mechanism for counting the time spent in the military service to a job that grants the right to a pension on the benefits and on the benefits and benefits of the service has lost legislative regulation over the years. Persons who have or will have the right to take into account time spent in the military service for work that gives them the right to retire on extended terms and on an extended scale and during years of service lose it. The bill that I have introduced is designed to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on general military duty and military service and article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families with the aim of legally establishing a mechanism for recording the time spent in the military service to an apprenticeship which grants the right to a pension on extended terms and in the amount of benefits and in service of years, provided that, at the time of the application for military service, a person has been trained in a vocational and technical school, worked for a profession or took office to provide for such benefits. The adoption of this law does not require additional spending from the State Budget. On the other hand, I would like to point out that today there are more than a few tens of thousands of signatures of miners to support this bill. They argue that after applying to the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine for the purpose of the appointment of pensions, they were denied an internship that grants them the right to retire on the extended terms of military service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it's understandable. The point is that, in fact, there are similar letters to me from miners who are faced with such a problem that they do not want to count the length of the corresponding, underground work and so on in the army, on the basis of the order of the Ministry that the reporter spoke about. Shall we be clear? They want to talk. Please, Masenko. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u16	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. The point is that laws are really important, the bill deserves attention. And we need to take into account the situation that has been in the history of our state and those citizens who fall within the scope of this law, we really need to be a little encouraged. And that would be the kind of justice that should be established. What the law requires is that you probably have to make some observations. The author of the bill said that he had no interest. But these, where budgetary interests are concerned, should probably be published by August 15th. Since we did not publish it, he may have the right to enter into force only on January 1, 2006. And I still can't agree with one thing that only those who worked on mines or other such hard jobs have the right to do it. I think it's everyone who's studied in PTU. Those who have taken part in the recruitment of the army have the right to have this period counted as a manufacturing internship. We have a solution to all the problems that practically ends at one that is not enough money in the budget. We have repeatedly stressed that we had an old gang member who stole everything that did not solve these social issues. The government is "national" now. The President of the People's Government is building the confidence of the people, so I think that this government should find the funds to solve these issues and especially the pensions of all of what we have decided today, the military, but all of Ukraine's citizens need to resolve pension insurance at the right level. Where can I find the money? Let us now, as they say, not be misled. When they went to the elections, they promised that the rich would share with the poor. Come on, guys, don't spin! Not the poor people with the wallets came to power! Split up a little bit and we'll all be fine! And what they said was that the principle of new power was, "The thief must be in prison!'so let us not put off ever again, but both Surkis and Medvedchuk, and all the others shall shake today; so shall they be turned over, shaken well, and, look, something shall fall. And it's going to be for retirement and for solving all of the social problems. As soon as it comes, it's this pro-President faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Olga Hinzburg from the microphone. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! We'll work with you for a week and then we'll go back to work for the constituency. And when we communicate with them, there are these questions again, especially about pension insurance. That's the first one. For example, the irresponsibility of all the problems of our pensioners is not reflected in the Pension Insurance Act. You see, we've adopted changes to the Law, and people, categories that are second in value, grid one, number two today have problems with the accrual. We see that orphans or children with disabilities don't get the help they need to ensure their lives. Once again, you and I are faced with the fact that people who served in the army don't count as interns. And the question is, why can't we make one pension law that takes all these problems into account, and people don't suffer from it? I don't know what it's going to be like, what old power, why she didn't do it. I wanted to tell my constituents that you don't have much hope for new authority, because these problems all of these social issues will go back, elections will begin, the formation of the Kabmin, other divisions will begin. And I'd like to get your attention. To get your attention, you need to stand up for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u19	Please, Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine", and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u20	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! What's the point of the Volinz MP's bill? Earlier on the assignment of a mining pension, especially for miners -- the Ukrainian People's Party for miners -- who are mining coal, uranium, zirconium, iron ore on underground robots. By the way, Lenin used to say that we're going to shut down all the mines, we're going to do underground coal gasification so that we don't turn workers, miners into underground slaves. How serious the intentions were! And he was right about that. So we need to consider this hard work of people, miners. Thus, for these categories of workers, the time spent in military service was likened to work that preceded or followed the service. That was before. These retirement relationships were regulated for a long time by the Soviet Council of Ministers. Then there was our ministry’s decision on these relations. But when the pension law was passed, these relationships came out of sight and remained unregulated. In general, I think it was a lack of legislative work, as we often do. This led to the need to fill this gap in legislation. And that's exactly what Deputy Wolintz is proposing. I think the bill deserves support. The question is, Where do you get the money? I think there must be one single answer in Parliament in all cases where there is a question about money: let the government smell the back of the head and look for funds so that the service of honey does not appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u21	Thank you. We better smell the back of the government, and there'll be more benefit. For reasons, please, Peter Cibenko, head of the committee. Microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u22	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I wanted to call on you to support this bill, because it's extremely important: it eliminates discrimination in time, because the person who retired before, it worked for her. Those who retire today do not work. And people can't accept it. They are forced to go to the courts today, and the courts make decisions for the benefit of the people. So what are we going to put a person around this bureaucratic, through court, and so on, and so forth, while we can solve this problem legislatively? I very much ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill. It is important, since it includes military service and the issue that needs to be settled by law, since people today have many other problems, and there is no need to create another additional one. I ask everyone, regardless of their faction, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. In particular, I address those who served in the Soviet army in their own time, for this may also apply to you. I'm betting on voting: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's law on internships in the assignment of pensions. Registration number 6111. Please vote. [[16:36:37]] For-300 Decision taken. No, there are problems like the law. Let's better ask the drafter of the bill, and more precisely, the profiling committee will work quickly, make changes, and literally at the next session, we can accept it as a law. There are problems. We can't get him in there. There's a question. There is a bill of recognition that has become invalid, the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of October 19, 1993 on the Ukrainian Military Doctrine. [[No.3529-HII]] Registration number 6177. First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Boris Pavlovich Andresyuk, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! First of all, we should have voted long ago because, by its decree of 15 June, the President of Ukraine had approved a new edition of the Military Doctrine and thus had virtually lost the validity of the Supreme Council decree of October 19, 1993, when we adopted the relevant Military Doctrine by decree of the Supreme Council. In connection with the adoption of the National Security Foundation Act 2003 by the Supreme Council, it is the prerogative of the Military Doctrine, the President of Ukraine. So he approved the proper military doctrine. We need to vote that the decree of October 19, 1993 had become invalid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u26	The decree was made by the People’s Deputies Kručkov, Andresyuk, Domanski, and Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u27	Thank you. Thank you, Boris Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? Come on, give me a minute. Please, Masenko. He's followed by a nigger. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u28	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In fact, there's not much to talk about, there's enough minutes, we're not going anywhere, we just have to vote for this bill, because the doctrine that was adopted before, it's already out of force. But I would like to say that the doctrine signed by the new President is probably not signed in the interests of the people of Ukraine or in the interests of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. It was here that the reporter said that our business was to vote and everything. Well, perhaps if our position of deputies were more stable, more so in the interests of Ukraine, the President would probably never have signed such a doctrine. Perhaps no military doctrine of any state provides for treason in the state, in the army or in Parliament, such as we have committed treason in Parliament and in the reporters and in all those who.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u29	Please, Vladimir Cherniak's microphone, "Our Ukraine" faction. He's got Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Of course, it is necessary to vote in contrast to the decision that has become invalid, but I would not like to see the vote for this decree taken as support for that military doctrine signed by President Kuchma. In particular, he deleted the words on the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. There is much else. Therefore, I think we have no reason to believe that there is a new adequate situation and the future of Ukraine's military doctrine. We must realize that we will have to work on the real new military doctrine of Ukraine. Thank you. This is President Yushchenko's job, and we'll help.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u31	And you'll help. Please, Zarubinsky, Ukrainian National Agrarian Party, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! The question here is not that someone has made a difference, although, of course, a colleague of Cherniak’s right when this doctrine is adopted on June 15, 2004, and on July 15, significant changes are made, but apparently they are not objective, but rather the nature of the response to the slap given to the former president by the leaders of 26 major countries in the world. So I don't view it as anything serious. But seriously, Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, which is quite right, that Andreszuk and other deputies posed a valid question. If those or other decisions of the Supreme Council lose their power after laws, decrees, etc., they have to be repealed, it's normal practice. And it's not normal, by the way, when we're 92, 94 years old, a whole series of regulations for today are still there. They don't work, but they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u33	Thank you, please, Boris Illrich Oilynik, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u34	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, of course, we need to cancel the previous strategic document out of the way as we gave up nuclear weapons free of charge, of course. At least that's why we have to cancel this strategy. The only thing I'd like to say is, if you think that when we join NATO, we're not going to have nuclear weapons nestled, just foreign weapons, that's interesting. Then we drove our nuclear weapons to Russia on our trucks and wagons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u35	Yes. The discussion is over, and I'm voting on the adoption as a whole, as a decree on recognition such that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling of 19 October 1993 on Ukraine's military doctrine, Bill 6177. Please vote. [[16:43:36]] For 252 It's been decided. Thank you. Yes. Dear colleagues, we have two interesting laws on many - child mothers and many - child parents. Yes. There is a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian Retirement Laws for many young mothers. Bill number 4423. The bill's author is Igor Stepanovich Nasalik, three minutes, please. From the Nadrag Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u36	Election District 86, Nasalik Igor Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, the drafting of the Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the reduction of the child’s fifth age, which is the basis for the appointment of longtime mothers. And the point is that this borderline age is decreasing from 8 to 6 years old, and not only is there a mass appeal to the MPs of all levels of multi-child mothers, as well as public organizations. This is primarily due to the difficult situation in the social welfare of many families and to the unsatisfying health of mothers who have given birth to or raise five or more children. And that's what this law applies to. I am not going to talk about the dissatisfaction of the general physical condition of such families, social, financial and other problems, but it is impossible to ignore this category of society. I would like to present such statistics that in 2002, household weights of five and more children amounted to only 0.6 percent of the total number of families. In 2003, this category dropped by twofold, to 0.3 percent. By 2004, it had dropped by 6 percent. The only thin line of this bill is, of course, budget funding. So I will not suggest, as Mr. Masenko suggested today, that we take some benefactors by the feet and shake them like a burratino. Over the past two years, a serious analytical group of more than 200 people, such as the Tax Code and the work of the tax service, customs, free economic zones, has proposed a number of changes that do not affect tax changes and do not affect the 2005 budget distribution architecture, but that specifically alters the budget's income and makes the budget, not a deficit of 9 billion, but a surplus of 9 billion. We've referred these proposals to the Prime Minister's executive responsibilities, and now we're handing them over to the budget committee. So I think that any thin spot in this bill that says that there is no budget funding doesn't make any sense in this section. And I think that this bill is going to be adopted in general by March of the month, in early April, and it's going to be taken into account in the changes. a budget to be considered in April months. Thank you. And I want you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u37	Thank you, Igor Stepanovich. Please, from the committee. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Vasily Ivanovich Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans, Persons with Disabilities, having considered bills submitted by the People's Deputies relating to the reduction of the child's border age in the case of the appointment of a multi-child mother's pension, and inviting him not to support it. A few words. The bill proposes that, when a pension is granted in determining the right to early retirement by age, and if a special benefit is granted to Ukraine, mothers who have given birth to five or more children, the conditions for the period of upbringing of children from the age of eight are changed, as is the case with legislation, to six years of age. The author's approaches to the adoption of the bill will contribute to improving the social situation of multi-child families, improving the demographic situation in the State, reducing juvenile delinquency, and implementing the above-mentioned law will not require additional costs in the State budget. I must say that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the bill be adopted on first reading, provided that all the comments and suggestions made in its deliberations are taken into account. As a committee, we suggest that we cannot support it, because this rule leads to the laundering of the categories of a multi-child mother. Why? Because those who have raised five or more children to eight years of age today are said to have no law of retroactive force, and we are comparing those who are now up to six years of age. Provided we never got a clear explanation from the authors, why from eight to six, not to five, not to three, at all. Based on this logic, once again, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities proposes not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u39	Yeah, let's get down to business. Samolik, the Communist faction. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u40	Catherine Samoylik, Ukrainian Communist Party faction, head of the All-U.S. Union of Women Workers for the Future of the Children of Ukraine, organization. It's a multi-child problem that's taken care of. Paradox, Vasil Ivanovich, that Ukraine is experiencing a demographic crisis and at the same time we are proposing to continue the State's unimportant, unheeded treatment of many children's families, of many children's women. I mean, they survive as they can. Who's the first to turn off the light, the gas? Who doesn't have a hot house, hungry kids? A woman from Lviv, a longtime mother who raises six children, told me how she deals with six of her children when they approach her home from the skyscraper or from the RES to turn off the light. Dogs are released, children are placed, and the house is turned into a fortress. And we're saying, they're blurry. I don't understand what's going on here? The bill is very good. I ask that the Ukrainian National Deputies weigh 11 million in Ukraine. families, of which only 400 have three or more children. It's not that much. Four hundred thousand. And these families need help. The bill provides for five children to be born, the last child to be six years old, and she has the right to retire five years earlier. And it will be a tribute to a nation that does not add to the family and not just in the household. For example, do many children in large families have the potential to enter higher education institutions on a budgetary basis? No, it's not. Do many young children have the opportunity to get their first job, to get their first salary? Of course not. And that's why I think it's in this room that we should give due respect to the woman who cares about Ukraine's future. I think we all unanimously vote in favour of this bill by constitutional majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u41	But we will not forget about our parents. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, faction of Democratic Ukraine. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! I ask you to recall here, in this room, that very recently there were parliamentary hearings that were devoted to implementing a strategy in Ukraine for overcoming poverty or a strategy for combating poverty. Please refer to the statistics, the sociology that we heard here, because it happened that among those who are now outside the poverty line, that is, where the total family income for one less, was then, 206 dollars, first of all, many children. I was surprised, frankly, at today's cynical and hypocritical position of the committee, which was kind of on the lookout for something. I stood on the watch of the committee, our colleagues, the national MPs, you must be ashamed to look these many young mothers in the eye, you stood up for a position of protection not your money. That's budget money. We have the legitimate President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, please don't stop them from working. They made good, elevated socialist commitments, come on, don't stand in their way, don't stick in their wheels. One more. In addition to having a high level of relevance, this bill has a purpose, and you should think about what's so bad about this: comparing a woman who has given birth and raised her children to a pensioner who has the right to a special merit pension. People, well, what other "special merit" could there be in Ukraine? Have you ever been given an order that is incomprehensible, or have you been given five children? I didn't understand the position of the Committee, so I'm not going to speak in the second draft. But I think that bill, 4423 and 5673, can be taken as a basis. There's one important point: I don't want us to reproduce the unreal laws again, or those that won't work, according to the Budget Code. And that's already the committee's job, because I'm sure we're going to vote for it now. For the second reading, this bill is due to be submitted to the session room by August of this year. Then it can take effect on January 1, 2006. And that's going to be right, and that's going to be fair, and that's going to be socially oriented. I call on the honourable colleagues to support this bill by adopting it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u43	Not until August, because we don't work in August, we work in June somewhere. Please, Shurma Igor, the faction of the United Social Democrats. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u44	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. For mothers and parents, 400 families with more children than two. According to this project, women who have given birth to five or more children and have been raised to six years of age are entitled to an early retirement pension, but not earlier than five years before the retirement age at the age of at least 15 years. In the final positions of the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" it is noted, in particular, that women have such a right to adopt the relevant law temporarily. Let's do a simple calculation. In order to retire immediately after reaching the age of six, a woman would have to give birth at the age of 44 or not later. Are there many such mothers in Ukraine today? Statistics show that children of that age are not more than 150 women a year, five, six, and so on. The extent of the phenomenon is unlikely to create a social demand for a change in legislation, and in two years, mothers will gain the right to an early retirement. There are others who don't. The material problems of many families are far from being solved. Society can and should find other, more effective measures to improve the condition of such families. It should be emphasized that the rules of the Pension Insurance Act are temporary. Should we adjust to this temporary standard? And finally. Just like there's no justification for an 8-year-old river to raise a child, it's not until it's six years old. So why 5, 6, and not 7? And the last. Today, there is much talk about creating social protection conditions in our country. I thank the authors of this bill, who understand that money will not be spent in their own pocket, and this is the budget. What is 600 million for a new authority that wants to provide social protection? The faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine asks you all to support this bill so that the current authorities can really declare their social standards policy. [[united]] Just like the bill that guarantees 8,460 dollars at birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u45	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u46	Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, Communist faction. When you walk past a bookshop, you see such beautiful magazines and beautiful women on the cover: modeliers, managers, entrepreneurs. They're well-dressed, they look pretty. A woman who has 5 or more children and thinks, "What's worse? Why can't I wear a nice dress? Or why can't I look so beautiful? Do you want to comb your hair?" Because it was a state that did not create a condition for her! And we don't write about these women -- about the hero. We do not talk about their lives, we do not set an example, and so that other women are like them and have children for our country. Why don't we? Because we just never do. Our nation or government is doing a very different job: privatizing businesses or whatever or everything is fighting for power. And children in Ukraine are getting smaller and smaller. I mean, if I were Prime Minister, here we are. We've approved, I'd sit down, I'd go to some district alone, and I'd sit down and see what problems I'd be able to write down. Yeah, I got a pensioner problem because they're going to the reception, and today we need to solve this problem. I have a problem with young people who come, they don't have jobs, they have to be solved. I have a problem with large families, they have nothing to eat, they have nowhere to live. We have a problem with impersonation. Those children who walk on Kiev ask for a piece of bread, and that is to be decided. We have a whole country, and that's what we have to decide. You remember, you said, after the Great Indian War, the Soviet Union or Soviet authorities, the Communist Party built a country that was destroyed by a fascist in 500 days and nights. And the first thing that was written down, she overcame the orphanage, she paid attention to the children. Why did the Communist Party do this? Because she knew there would be a future tomorrow. And you and I need to take this best and fight for our future. Because we just have nothing to live for if we leave this mess behind. But the Prime Minister won't approve of me, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! So maybe we can confirm Olga Petrovna right now? Please, Cherniak, a minute away.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! If we are not legally and financially supportive of many mothers, soon such a phenomenon as that of a longtime mother in Ukraine will disappear. This law needs to be passed, but I don't think it's the solution to the problem. A framework law should be adopted to support multi - child families, which should lay down rules for childbearing assistance, one - time assistance, monthly assistance in rearing children in a multi - child family, retirement, and special merit pensions. But since we do not have such a Law, perhaps as a step in this direction it is appropriate to adopt the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u49	Thank you, please, Kirilchuk, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u50	Thank you. Kirilchuk, Yulia Block Timoshenko Adam Ivanovich, we have a very striking day today, you are personally responsible for the work of the Budget Committee. These are your responsibilities. Today we have distributed about 5 billion bracelets a day. This is a budget that needs to be reviewed with 17 billion deficits. There is a code, and the Code states that laws are introduced only before the beginning of the budget, the development of a new budget. Because it says, "in 2006" is the right thing to do. But that's where we used to say, "from the day of the signing." I think it's a violation and I have to get back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u51	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich, you're absolutely right, but we haven't passed any law on the budget today. They are all accepted in the first reading. When we take it in the second, when we take it in the second -- then we're going to take it in, we're going to take it in. What's more, all the speakers on this, and especially Professor Cherniak, he kept stressing it all the time. Yes, please, Cibenko, the committee was mentioned here for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u52	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Peter Cibenko, Head of the Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, here recently one of our colleagues from this rostrum, by the way, a colleague who was more frequent than anyone, standing on the rostrum, denying a higher standard of living, tried to disprove the Committee in an inconsistent position. I am absolutely convinced that the Law will be adopted and the Committee will prepare it for second reading. And another thing is that the theory was that, before many children, many mothers are not included in the Retirement Law for special merit. They are included, that is, the mother who gave birth to five or more children, and she is entitled to an additional pension on the basis of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u53	In fact, we recently accepted such an addition to the Pensions Act for special merit. But let us help many mothers again, especially given that 99% of our parliament is made up of parents. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on Retirement for Multi-Child Mothers]] [[Registration number 4423]] Please vote. [[17:04:50]] For 261 Thank you. Copy that. No, in general, there are questions, including budget issues. The factions, please. The factions, please. "Our Ukraine" -- 33 rich people; communists -- 56; "Regions of Ukraine" -- 35; National Agrarian Party -- 23; Social Democrats -- 25; "One Ukraine" -- 7; Socialists -- 12; Timoshenko Block 15; "Union" -- 12; Industrial and Entrepreneurs -- 4; "Democratic Ukraine" -- 10; NDP Republic -- 6; "Democratic Initiatives" -- 4; "Centre" -- 6; non-fractional -- 13. [[United]] Thank you. Let's move on to our parents. There is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. [[on Retirement for Multi-Children]] [[Registration number 5673]] The bill is written by national MP Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Please, three minutes. Get ready from the committee at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u54	Boris Tarasyuk, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka’s constituency. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, according to which one of the spouses who raises five or more children regardless of age and working age will be granted retirement at the age of the benefit. The need to adopt such changes to the law is due to the importance of eliminating discrimination in the granting of benefits to parents of many children. Only women use this right in their actual form. But reality confirms that men are also involved in raising children. In addition, a valid law contains a rule that only women who work in agriculture have the right to a pension on extended terms. The proposed changes are proposed to eliminate such a situation and to grant the right to a spouse’s pension on extended terms regardless of where he or she works. The purpose of the proposed changes is also to improve the demographic situation in Ukraine. After all, parents of many families will benefit from the protection of the State, and one of the couples will be guaranteed an old - age pension on extended terms. The Scientific and Expert Office is invited to adopt a bill in the first reading, taking into account the comments on the relevant changes to other legislative acts that regulate this issue. In particular, before the final provisions of the Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. In this context, I propose to support this bill in the first reading and to take into account the proposals of the Science and Technology Administration in preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u55	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disability of Heads of the Subcommittee, Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u56	The honourable colleagues, having considered the bill, agree that the problem exists both in general and in variations, the proposals made by the authors as a mechanism for strengthening the demographic situation and protecting the multi-child families and parents who raised five or more children respectively. However, in terms of formality, we could not make a positive decision because the proposals concerned the Pension Insurance Act. To date, this bill is simply not working. He's been canceled. We have the legislative framework of the Compulsory Pension Insurance Act. Accordingly, we could not adopt amendments to a law that does not exist, which has just been repealed and does not exist. Therefore, based on that logic, our proposal. On the other hand, we agree that the problem exists and needs to be addressed. Now, not for the audience, but for those who listen and watch TV. Dear countrymen and fellow countrymen, the previous discussion of the issue has shown that the political passions associated with past and upcoming election races have not ended. Therefore, the crying of Jaroslavna for the rescue of many children and all other socially disadvantaged persons, I would suggest that everyone, without exception, be considered by a specific vote. I therefore appeal to the Chairman of our meeting: the distinguished Adam Ivanovich, after voting on this bill, please state who and how he voted will be a little clearer. Because when we meet on a committee, there are some positions when we begin to remember that we must all serve our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u57	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich. The previous law I said, who voted, I hope that you voted correctly, and we will also announce it. Let's move on to the discussion. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u58	The Ukrainian Communist Party faction, head of the All-U.S. Women Workers' Union for the Future of the Children of Ukraine. I told them that we were looking out for the problems of many families in Ukraine. And I was surprised to learn the statistics of many families, and I concluded that we women think very badly of men. We still have less than 46 percent. That is why they need our support and support! Strong support for both women and state support. And I want to say that there are a lot of families among many large families, where husbands, parents, raise their children by themselves, losing their wife. Well, I want to go to the men's room. Well, imagine getting up in the morning and messing with your daughter's hair, making breakfast for her, pretzel, ironing, cleaning and so forth. And believe me, I've just been able to meet a category that's lost their wives and they're going on, well, just their own parenting business, just bringing up their children. And in this regard, of course, and in view of the adoption in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Equal Opportunities for Men and Women or Gender Equality, we are simply obliged to align approaches, public approaches in relation to both men and women. There are husbands and fathers, or even families, where the father gives more attention than the mother does to such families, so we should give them due. So we, I think, would be right if we voted that out with you too. and make changes that one of the spouses — or a woman — or a man who raises five or more children, regardless of age and employment, in order that is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, will be able to retire early. It's going to be a plough. But, God forbid, men should benefit from this aid and our Ukraine. So that there will never be a translation of our kind.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u59	Thank you for the fiery support of the masculine side. Igor Shurma, faction of Social Democrats. [[United]] Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u60	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] I would like to remind everyone who is in the hall and who is outside of it, the essence of the bill, which is, in fact, to establish an equal right for mothers and parents, not just mothers who raise five or more children, to receive a pension, and to extend this right to all categories of citizens, not just women who work in agriculture. The proposed bill seeks to establish gender equality in child rearing and social evaluation of this important function. That is, women and husbands should have equal rights, responsibilities both within the family and in retirement. This approach, in principle, does not raise objections, but it does raise several questions. If a pension is granted to a parent rather than to a mother, how will the mechanism of choice work? It would also be necessary to foresee a mechanism to make it impossible for both parents to receive such a pension. Next. The National Pension Insurance Act already provides for mothers or parents to receive a pension regardless of their place of residence. The difference in the bill is that in the current legislation, a father can receive a pension only for his mother’s absence, and according to a bill to one of the spouses — a wife or a husband. In that case, it would be more logical to propose that the law should also be amended, even though it regulates the matter temporarily, before the law is enacted. And that's the main thing. The faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine of the United States believes that the issue of the formation of a social state is of great importance. However, no political party was given the right to engage in populism and the declaration of unfulfilled things. This bill is a card for the playground, when in the square, people were promised everything they wanted only people to vote on. And the whole paradox of this situation is that today one of the drafters of the bill is proposing to amend the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act to a law that no longer exists. Therefore, the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine of the United States believes that this bill should not only be accepted but should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u61	Please, Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, microphone. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the law that we are. The amendments to the law that we are currently considering must be supported and have the right to life, because it touches the fate of children, and children are the most expensive things in our country. It's either a father or a mother, but it's still about our children. If someone thinks it's a factory or there's oil or there's coal, it's ours, and we're rich with that. No, we should remember that if we do not grow a new generation and keep it healthy, our country cannot be rich. I just want to say something else. If other parties are making populism for themselves or making statements there, then we, the Communist Party, having been in opposition for 10 years, are always saying that this is our credo, that we live by it, because we got out of it, we know how it was done. We've done this before, we've seen how we can do this, and we're proposing that we transfer these trials to today. It's not a problem, it's a practice. And they certainly need to support and help your disadvantaged children and their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u63	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, this bill is in line with the support of many families. True, there are two formal moments here. I'm in favour of a multi-child parent without question, but there are two points about where to actually make changes if you support a multi-child parent, because a pension insurance law has already been passed. Here, it is proposed to amend the Pension Insurance Act. It must have been filed before the adoption of the pension insurance law, and it may be necessary to make such changes. This is the first moment. And second moment. In the previous law that we passed in the first reading, it says that retirement for mothers is 5 years earlier. It offers, regardless of age and for mothers and parents, that is, we need to reconcile these two points if we are to support many - year - old families, including many - year - old parents. Now essentially the problem. It is known that there is very low birth rates in Ukraine and that mortality is significantly higher than birth rates, twice as much in practice, resulting in a sharp reduction in the population of Ukraine. Ukraine’s decline rate was 300,000 a year, even 350 years. The question is: "For whom do we build an independent, consecrated Ukrainian state, if the population continues to be reduced at this rate?" At least by 2015, the population of Ukraine could be about 42 million, and then further trends would continue as predicted. I mean, it's a very negative demographic situation, and it's born into a very unfavourable socio-economic situation, mass poverty, and a very unfavourable environmental situation. So if we want to change the situation, we need to take care of the growth in prosperity, change socio-economic conditions, and provide the population accordingly. And, of course, mothers need to be supported. As Shevchenko wrote, "There is nothing better in our paradise on earth than that young mother and her child." And we need to support the men. I remember the article “Save Men. ” Men die before women, and men need to be saved in order to care for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-02-01-m1.u65	And about the kids. Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, project registration number 5673. [[on Retirement for Multi-Children]] Please vote. [[17:21:23]] For 236 The decision was taken, and we adopted the Law in the first reading. In factions, please: "Our Ukraine" - 41, Communists - 57, "Regions of Ukraine" -42, People's Agrarian - 16, Social Democrats - 0, "One Ukraine" - 6, "Socialist Party - 8, "Timoshenko - 15, Union - 12, Industrialists, Entrepreneurs - 1, "Democratic Ukraine" - 13, NDP, Republic - 4, Democratic Initiatives - 6, Center - 6, Non-fractional - 9. [[United]] Dear colleagues, you and I have been working with you today in a very productive, productive and productive manner, and we have fulfilled all the commitments we have made so far, that is, we have considered all the bills that we are going to consider today. Since we have an exhausted schedule of days, we are forced to close the evening meeting of the Supreme Council in the morning. This evening’s session is closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. Good luck.
