ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:32]] There were 408 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes for the national deputies to make proposals, to make requests, to make statements, and to report. But clearly, we're not going to get in in 30 minutes, so if we agree on 30 minutes of performances, then we're going to work without interruptions. Please sign up for the performance. Please. So what are your monitors for? [[Applause]] Yes, please listen to the information, more faithfully, let us start with a more enjoyable one. Today is our colleague's birthday, Sergio Andriovich Žizka. Let us welcome him with this day of light in his life. [[Applause]] I'll brief you on the matter yesterday at the plenary meeting on June 23rd. A total of 24 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of the review, 13 laws were passed in general, four bills were adopted in the first reading on the basis of the draft legislation, one bill was designed to be revised, two bills were rejected and four were adopted. It's a long way to go. People's deputies of Ukraine, Catherine Samoylik, have been asked by the President of Ukraine to comply with legislation on the construction of areas around the National Olympic Sports Complex. Please support the MP's request. Vote. [[10:04:10]] For 118 Dear colleagues, as always, we are not yet operational in the morning, please listen to what we are talking about. This is about the construction of areas around the National Sports Complex of the Olympics. If we do not stop the roadblocks there, we will soon have to fly to the stadium by helicopters. I'm asking you to support the request. Vote. [[10:04:52]] For 228 Supported. I would like to vote in favour of sending a parliamentary request. Vote. [[10:05:14]] For 239. Decision taken. People's Deputies Group Alexiyuk, Assadchev, Shirko and others to the President of Ukraine for the verification of the ownership of the Director of the State Enterprise, the polygraphing unit "Ukraine" for the production of securities to the U.S. residence and the activities of an organized group, whose members, using their positions, act upon the collapse of a single state-owned automated passport system, which could result in losses of the State budget in a particularly large amount. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:06:14]] For-154 Request supported. But to send him to the President, it takes 226 votes. So please mobilize. I put it to a vote: to refer the MP's request to Alexiyuk, Assadchev, Shirka and others to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:06:46]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Mikhail Dobkin to the President of Ukraine on violations of the police and security laws of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service of Ukraine on the basis of falsified documents to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service. Please vote in favour of the request. [[10:07:27]] For 219 Request supported. I would like to vote in favour of sending a parliamentary request to the President. It takes 226 votes, we vote. [[10:07:47]] For 242 Request supported. Vladimir Shepetin to the President of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the specialized maternity clinic number five of Kharkiv. Please support the request. Vote. [[10:08:16]] For-143 Not supported. Jury SOLOMATAN to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the head of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the situation of poisoning a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, the National Deputy Victor Yushchenk on the subjectivity test of the report on the Internet vision regarding the involvement of citizens of Boris Berezowiski and David Zwani in the planned special operation for the poisoning of the national deputy and candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. Igor ŠURMI to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of official information regarding the submission of applications for leave and the collection of appropriate payments to the national deputies, which combine parliamentary activities with activities in public authorities and local self-government. Victor ANTEMUCA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the villages of Ivanovka and Zwiżin Wynnicki district, Winnicki district. Maria MARKUS to the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the improper implementation of laws on the provision of disabled persons by means of manual means of transport in the Zakartat region. Ms. Alexander ŠEVCHENKA to the Prime Minister regarding the financing of the Dnipropetrovsk Dnipropetrovsk Library. Group of People's Deputies to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, regarding the failure to execute a court decision and the abuse of office by officials of the State Treasury and Tax Administration. [[CHELNOKOV, ALEXIEV, BABURIN AND OTHERS]] Mr. Victor DRACCHERS to the Prime Minister for the purpose of addressing the teachers, the administration, the Professional Committee of the School of Arts No. 1 of the city of Nicopol to amend the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1346 of September 26, 2002. Eugene CONSTANTINOVA to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Property Fund on the violation of the ownership rights of the employees of the machinery factory of the town of Dražkowka and the illegal actions of officials in the process of privatization. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Prime Minister on the debt of pedagogical, academic and other educational staff in the Lviv region. Vladimir ÍŠENKA to the Prime Minister for failure by the local authorities of Cherkasa to comply with the demands of participants in the protest against rising housing tariffs, municipal services and food products and violations of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal. Igora ŠAROVA to the Prime Minister regarding the payment of salaries to the labour force of the State Enterprise “Maloviskian Spirit Plant” in the region of Kirovograd and the threat of the release of 270 employees of the factory. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, on the abuse of the office of the Director of the Zacarpathian Institute for Agricultural Production of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, on the abuse of its executive power, on the exacerbation of the socio-ecological situation in the villages of the Beregiv district of Zakarpat. [[MIHOVI, TURKEY, LOBOD AND OTHERS]] Boris HOT TO THE Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the abuse of office and the theft of public funds by the leadership of the Lutsky Alcoholic Combined. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on the verification of the ownership of the Director of the State Enterprise, “Ukraine’s Polygraph Unit for Securities Production” to the United States residence and the activities of an organized group, whose members use their office, act upon the collapse of the Single State Automated Passport System, which can lead to the damage of the State Budget in a particularly large way. [[ALEXIOUK, ASADZOV, BROAD AND OTHERS]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister on violations of constitutional law and labour law in the termination of the contract with the Rector of Zaporzik National University of Savinim. [[BABURIN, DRY, LOBOD]] MICHELLA TO THE Prime Minister on the irrational spending of public health spending on the purchase of ambulances. Tamara PROSKURATO the Prime Minister, Ministry of Health, concerning the unlawful actions of the head of the Property Fund of the city of Uzhgrad regarding the State Health Centre for the purpose of transferring the premises of the “Paternity” party. Victor ANTEMJUKA to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the village of Komarov Vynicki district, Winnicki district. Mary MARKUS to the Prime Minister on the gasification of the premises of the Hustian territorial organization of the Blind Ukrainian Association. Anatolysa TO THE Prime Minister for the conservation and disposal of unfit pesticides and agrochemicals accumulated in the farms of the Mikolai region. Ms. Alexander TKALENKA to the Prime Minister, Head of the Herson District State Administration, on the inaction of the head of the Bilozer District State Administration on life support issues for residents of the village of Nadezhivka. Petra TLOČKA and Kiril POLIČEKA to the Prime Minister for the provision of a separate line in the 2006 State Budget for the completion of the construction of the historical museum in the town of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki. Alexander CARENKA to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection from the Blackwater Disaster, the Ministry of Health for the Protection of Technological Disasters in the Hersonian Region of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for work to deal with the consequences of the extraordinary situation in the region of Ivano-Frankow. valentine SAVIC to the Prime Minister on the removal of gas networks, bringing gas networks to the residential area of Sinachi Novograd-Wallin district of the Žitomir region. Anatoly of RACHANS to the Prime Minister regarding the organization of educational work with orphans and children from disadvantaged families in the city of Eupatoria. GEORGIA MANCHULENKA to the Prime Minister on the general budget of the Ministry of Defence through separate lines of funding for the military forces. Jury CARMAZINA to the Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Budget Affairs on the provision of constitutional rights for members of the Armed Forces, internal forces, other military formations and law enforcement agencies to protect the social security through the renewal of the right to compensation for goods and food rations, the enforcement of court decisions on the collection of claims on payments. Istwana HYDOSH to the Prime Minister for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers to meet the requirements of articles 46 and 51 of the Act on the 2005 State Budget of Ukraine, on the approval of the list of objects and the allocation of subsidies to local budgets for the gasification and development of the socio-economic sphere. Vassila GAVRILUKA to the Prime Minister on the elimination of an extraordinary situation that occurred in the city of Žaskov of the Cherkas region. Mr. Paul MUTCHANA to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture and Tourism, concerning the illegal construction and disposal of land in the security zones of the National Kyewovo-Pechres Historical Cultural Reserve. Group of National Deputies to the Prime Minister, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the introduction of competition principles in the conduct of tenders for the carriage of passengers by taxis in Kiev and an unwarranted increase in the cost of travel. [[REBEDIBLE, SLEEP, WORKER]] Gennady RUDENKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, on violations of environmental legislation when importing and treating Hudron remnants from Hungary into Ukraine. Vladimir LECENKA to First Deputy Prime Minister for the production of domestic harvester harvester “Slavutic” and “Lan”. Jury BOJKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka, Minister of Internal Affairs, on ensuring the right of national identification of Ukrainian citizens by restoring the Nationality Record in the Birth Register, Birth Certificate and Passport. Mr. Mikoli Sherschun and Ms. Valeria Samoplavski to Vice Prime Minister Mikolio Tomenka on the limitation of the right of residents of the Kostopilsky, Sarnensky and Breznov regions of the Plains region to information. Mr. Vladimir ĆENKA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka for the reconstruction of the Cherkas District Philharmonic. Anatolia GREZYEVA to Vice Prime Minister Mikoli Tomenka, Head of the ARC Council of Ministers for the implementation of the capital repair of the children's centre in the village of Lenino. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General for violations of the laws of the Kyivenergo Shareholder Company and unlawful and inconsistent actions of the Ministry of Justice. Vladimir CHAPPETINE to the Attorney General for the prosecution of criminal proceedings. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General for the inadequacy of being included in the expert medical commission on the poisoning of Viktor Yuschenk Dr. Korpan, who has dual citizenship and is involved in the falsification of the interim medical report on Victor Yushchenk’s health. MICHELLE RUDKOVSKI to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Board, Head of the State Property Fund for the criminalization of the Ninja City Head for the abuse of municipal property. Vladimir LEVCUN and Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General on the verification of the abuse of office as prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov region of Shuba. Vasil BARTKIVA to the Attorney General on the theft of property and the total destruction of VAT “Bolekhiv Forest Combination” in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Paul SILCHANA to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, heads of the Board regarding the situation surrounding the open shareholders “Poltavavolblanergo”, “Chernihivolbenergo”, “Lvivoblanergo” and “Scarpation - oblenergo”. Mr. Mikoli Komara and Ms. Alexia Korsakova to the Attorney General, Minister of Internal Affairs, on violations of the law enforcement authorities in the head of the Donetsk Regional Branch of the Kolesnik Region Party. Paul SULKOVSKI to the Attorney-General, Prime Minister, State Secretary in connection with the violation by the President of Ukraine of the Law on State Taxation in Ukraine. Larissa POLACOVOYA to the Attorney General, the head of the C.E.R.A., on the sale of state-owned stock packages to Ukrainian state-owned stockholder holding company Ukrepapyprom. Petra SIMONENKA to the Attorney General on the inaction of prosecutorial authorities and local authorities in the city of Lviv for the destruction of children’s playgrounds. Vitalia ŠIBKA to the Attorney General on the audit of the financial and economic activities of the Society with limited responsibility “Sirius-95”. Vladimir BONDARENKA to the Attorney-General on the verification of privatization and further sale of chestnut groves on Rizhska Street in Kiev. Viacheslava ANISIMOVA to the Attorney General on the systematic obstacle to the performance of the duties of the national deputy by the prosecutor of the city of Dniprodžinska. Victor MUSIJAKI to the Attorney General for the purpose of addressing Tagibek’s citizen regarding the misconduct of officials in internal affairs, the prosecutor’s office, and the local administration in Kiev. Anatolia Seminogui to the Attorney-General for the North Mino check of the mine’s operation “S n n a n a n a t a t a t a t” of the Donetsk region. YEUGEN HYERNIKA to the Attorney General, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights for the violent assembly of signatures to support the leadership of the Kalusian Shareholder Society, Lukor. Lilia GRIGOROVIC to the Attorney General on the illegal actions of officials of Naftozachist society and the illegal alienation of state property. To the Attorney General, Vladimir YAVORIYSKE for a criminal case for conspiring prosecutors, the police, the former head of the Regional Representation of the Dejmajne Foundation, the City Council and the Hmělnický City Judges for the purpose of unlawful possession of non-residential premises in the city centre, which was covered by former senior officials of the President’s Administration. Vladimir SIVKOVIĆA to the Attorney General for improper response to the parliamentary request for a criminal case involving Dr. Korpan in connection with the falsification of his documents on the case of the poisoning of Viktor Yashchenk. Anatoly of ORJAHOV to the Minister of Defence, Head of the Pension Fund for the Pension Insurance of Families of War veterans and Military Service. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agriculture Policy on the illegal conduct of the management of the Bobrinecki district of Kirovograd in relation to the agricultural production cooperative “Bobrinec”. Ivan MIHOVIĆA to the Ministry of Defence on the allocation of part of the military premises that are being reformed to promote the Uzhgrad Medical and Social Rehabilitation Centre “The Way of Life”. The Gennady of the State Department of Internal Affairs on the findings of international organizations that Ukraine does not fulfil its obligations to prevent torture, and citizens’ complaints about the use of physical violence by police officers. Ms. Alexander Goluba to the Ministry of Health for the improper performance of her duties by the employees of the Bilgorod-Dnistrov Hospital. Vladimir DEMOCHINA to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the address of the Head of the Donetsk District Model Automobile School of the Society for the Defence of Ukraine. Mr. Vladimir PUSAKOVA to the Minister of Agrarian Policy on the violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Reforming the Agrarian Sector of the Economy. Dmitry RUDKOVSKI to the Minister of Health on the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Anatoly OF ORJAHOVSKI to the Minister of Health regarding the material and technical provision of the Upper Central District Hospital in the Herson region. Gennady RUDENKA to the Minister of Environmental Protection on the problems of the behaviour and disposal of unfit pesticides in the Rubebeginsque VAT "Krastel" of the Lugansk region. Stanisława PCHIDENKA to the minister of agro-industrial policy on violations of the rights of peasants and dairy producers by the directors of metal factories in Volina. Alexander TKALENKA to the minister of defense for improper reaction to the call of war invalids. Jurya CARMAZINA to the Minister of Transport and Communications, the heads of the Antimonopoly Committee, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kiev City Head on improving public administration in the field of transport, the halting of a fundamental increase in the cost of passenger transport in Kiev City. The aim is to reduce the mobile composition of municipal property and to increase private routes, transportation, encourage conscientious private carriers, and introduce subsidies, and the cost of transportation of the passenger debt category. Alexander GOLUBA to the minister of health for the care of diabetics with medicines. Dmitry RUDKOSKOVO to the minister of agricultural policy on the outstanding problems of the Bilocerkow region of the Kyiv region, and the special economy of Sorokotozas. Fuel and energy groups of national deputies to finance the renovation of the boiler school number 148 of Donetsk. [[VERNIDOUBOV, PANASOVI, COMAR, AND OTHERS]] TO THE Minister of Culture and Tourism, Paul Silent about the allocation of funds foreseen by the 2005 State Budget for the creation and distribution of national films. MICHAEL RODIONOVA to the minister of justice regarding the inaction of the executive service regarding the execution of the Kobilecki court decisions. Mr. Paul Sulkovsky to the Head of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice, the Secretary of State for Information on the commission of the President of Ukraine to replace the Prosecutor of the Volin region. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Qualificational Commission of the High Court of Commerce to initiate the question of the disciplinary responsibility of the judges of the Zaporozhye District of Honcharenko and Serkiza in connection with the violation of legislation in the exercise of justice. [[ALEXIEV, BABURIN, LOBOD]] Groups of people's deputies to the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General's Office for the Exceeding of President Yushchenk of Ukraine and for the exertion of pressure on the head of the Dnipropetrov District Council. [[MacKEENKO, COMAR, SULKOVSKI]] Vladimir PETRENCA to the head of the Suman district government for the support of a rural dairy producer in the village of Krasnopil Sumsk district. GEORGIA MANCHAULENKA to the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration on the formal approach of the new authorities to solving the painful problems of Ukrainian citizens. Mikhayla Kosiva to the head of the SBU on the appeal of the Kharkiv district organization “Pora!” regarding violations of economic legislation. FIXA to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the observance of the city’s construction rules when working on the Bank’s Street and the reconstruction of the pedestrian zone. Mikhayla RODIONOVA to the head of the Pension Fund for the recalculation of pensions for working pensioners with disabilities. Anatolia MOROZA to the Head of the State Property Fund on the situation surrounding the VAT “P et al. d.o.o. and the city of Tokmak Zaporezki region. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Chief of State Service, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the provision of constitutional guarantees for the retirement of former workers who, in accordance with the Constitution of the U.S.S.R., held positions in public administrations. GOVERNMENT to the Head of State for the scope and funding of work related to the reconstruction of the highway area in the city of Kiev. Anatolia Seminoga to the Qualifying Commission of Judges of Kiev on the examination of the violation of the law by Judge Ivanenko in the trial. Vladimir YAVORISKY to the prosecutor of the Kirovograd region for the immediate referral of a complaint of appeal to the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the decision of the Kirovograd Regional Court of Appeal, according to which the ex-head of the election committee of the territorial constituency No. 100 of Kirovgrad Hilchenko, the chief forger of the elections of the President of Ukraine, remains at large. Dear colleagues, while I was introducing you to the MP's questions, you had me thrown in with another batch of parliamentary inquiries. The chairman is not tired of asking you not to do so. You realize that there is an order established by the Rules. I'm not gonna call it a last name, I'm gonna call it one. Those who have now made these requests are those who, as soon as the opportunity arises, criticize the presiding officers for any violation of the Rules, but who are completely forgetting the Rules when they decide their case. They're completely forgotten! So today I'm going to make another exception and read all these questions, considering that we're not going to work for a week. But, dear colleagues, believe me, it's hard to understand what you've given us, so to speak. And here we have to figure out where, and where, and for what, and so I'm asking you, let's put them in order so that we can prepare the Secretariat and make sure it's consistent with the law. There seems to be someone else from the Social Democrats who wanted a question. Give it to me if you have it. Yeah, we'll figure it out. Minister of the Interior of Ukraine Lucenka on the abuse of officials of Naftosakhist society and the destruction of property, which is part of state property. Lily GREGOROVIC’S MP’s request. Oleg BILORUS to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the delay in the management of KSPs in transferring housing to free municipal property from the privatization in the village of Dziwikka, a citizen or a citizen of Beharski. Ms. Vladimir PETRENKA Minister of Health of Ukraine, Poland, regarding the definition of a disability group by sight for the citizens of Samohina, the inhabitants of the city of Jenakiyevo Donetské region. Ally ALEXANDROVSKY, prosecutor of the Kharkiv region, on the legality of land allocation and the construction of a car station in the city of Lozov, Kharkiv district. Anatolya MOROZA to the head of the State Property Fund on the issue of the transfer of the Albatros rest base to the balance sheet of the Southendizelmash city of Tokmak Zaporez Region. Vladimir PUSAKOVA, head of the State Property Fund, on a criminal situation involving a limited liability company called the Elisevetgrad Transportation Company, the Trolleybus Park of Kirovgrad, in connection with a breach of the terms of the lease agreement. GEORGIA BUIKE to the Attorney General on the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by the authorities and employees of the national shareholder company National Network of auction centres. Ms Anatoly NALIVAYKA to the Minister of Justice on the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by the authorities and employees of the national shareholder company National Network of auction centres. Igora Shurmi, Prime Minister of Ukraine, to bring to justice the responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health in connection with the gross violation of current legislation in the discharge of a civil servant or a citizen of Trinchuk. With the exception of those requests that I have just read, requests have been received from the faction "Our Ukraine" 16, the factions of Communists - 26, the factions "Regions of Ukraine" - 9, the faction of the social-democratic party united - 8, the factions "One Ukraine" - 1, the People's Party - 3, the Socialist - 7, the Block of Timoshenko - 3, the Ukrainian People's Party - 8, "Democratic Ukraine" - 5, the non-fractional - 7. Just 93. Well, plus here about 10 questions. Yeah, it's like we're done with the questions. Please re-light the list on the monitors for 30 minutes. Yavorowski, get ready for Tereshuk. I don't see him. Show me Tereshuk. Yeah, he'll come, I'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u2	Dear national electorates, our distinguished voters, who are now listening to us. I speak for myself, not for the faction, and this is my parliamentary right. Because I'd like to say this: the new power has passed the first hundred meters and is just going to its stationary distance. And you and I, the people's deputies, we're actually getting to the finish line. Because I would like to send a message to society and I want it to be fixed that we, many of the representatives of "Our Ukraine," are not in love with what we do today, as we call the new Ukrainian authorities. We're not really interested in everything that's going on in the state today, and it's very important. And these mistakes that the authorities have made today, including our publicly elected president, they are today, we realize that. We understand this in the context of "Our Ukraine" and we are experiencing these mistakes very painfully. And what came out of the President’s mouth and from the Prime Minister’s mouth about our orientation in the EP, when they both spoke from this rostrum about the fact that the EP is nothing more than a betrayal of national interests, it is obvious that this shore needs to be held. The biggest problems, and I run the program on the radio and, in fact, every week in all parts of Ukraine, I get completely open, open letters. And I'm very concerned that the euphoria, the first one, is not fully used by the authorities. To this day, however, a certain wave begins. And we don't just have to get caught up in what's going on. I mean, even, and the opposition, even though we don't have any full opposition in Ukraine. And I want to say this: I'm concerned that we don't have political opposition and that, too, the power is very relaxing and, if you want, maybe it doesn't make it what it should be. Now I just got a call from my district, and my assistant, a boy teacher, who was my assistant, became some kind of district superintendent there right now, and, first thing he did, he dragged himself into the village drags himself under the house building a bet. Because of this, the biggest problems are, of course, personnel today. I understand and understand Voltaire's phrase that kings don't know, very often, what their ministers and subordinates do, just as men don't know what their wives do. But I would very much like society to know that we will not allow the power to relax: neither the president nor the prime minister, nor anyone. And do not expect us to be constantly engrossed in their actions. The good that is done is good. What is bad is that we should increase and be sure to talk about it. Because today we can't even go to the president and Igor Yukhnowsky can't. It's not the president's fault, it's the president's failure to let him in. We know that, we remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u3	Please, instead of Tereshuk Shevchenko. Get ready for Grey Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u4	Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am deeply grateful that you have given us the opportunity to express your thoughts and would like, dear colleagues, to focus on the latest developments that are taking place around Parliament when government officials begin to say that Parliament does not want to work productively when government officials start to say that we do not have the opportunity to adopt constructive laws. I would like to pay attention, first of all, to the quality of the laws that the government is passing and which often have to criticize and have to criticize fairly. I would like to refer to these laws and the Law on the Taking Off of Customs to the Sunflower and the Law on Cattle and Mercury. The laws of others that apply to both metallurgy and other areas of life and production. Today, I think it's also very important to return to a serious protectionist policy regarding the development of agro-industrial production of the entire agricultural complex. Because virtually all of our radio listeners who are listening to us now know that there is no culture that is highly cost-effective in agriculture, there is no sector of the agricultural economy that is making profits today. This production needs grants, serious help. And that's why one of the laws that we and a group of deputies prepared was the Law on taking away duties from the sunflower in order to make it a higher price. Nobody wanted to do anything wrong for the manufacturer, the processor, or make any benefits for the monopolistic exporters. I would like to say that perhaps the fact that there were discussions about these laws, and with a group of our deputies, I was able to reach consensus from different factions. Now we're preparing a whole new law that would set up both the manufacturer and the manufacturer, and it would be necessary for the state, for the government. I would like to emphasize in particular what we now often say is that we want to go to the SAT, we want to do better. But thoughtless actions, unthinkable laws, will lead to the fact that the sunflower will not be cultivated. What's more, there's a new alternative, biodevice is rap. I would also like to highlight another important detail. It is said that if there is no hope anymore, people do not engage in production. There was a serious outflow of investments from the agro-industrial complex. So, I think these are the funds that we didn't ask for ten billion, they weren't hoped for, but they were creating serious projects, including. Government, the first steps are already in place. I wish we MPs would not stand outside, and we would be able to influence that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u5	Please, Gregory Bondarenko. The next Grzezhev gives the word to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u6	Gregory Bondarenko, electoral district 92, Kiev, Democratic Ukraine, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues. As you know, the mass replacement of government personnel has not always proved to be useful, not entirely appropriate and legitimate. These events are sometimes viewed as political persecution, and it cannot be said that they are all being carried out in the interests of the cause. The coming of a new authority is always accompanied by a replacement of leaders. It's an axiom. Instead of replacing those in key positions, however, the expulsion of surveyed officials began. For the record, the government is impressed by corruption. Cardiac measures are needed. Yet, this did not mean that all of us should be released, but that is what they did. I mean in the regions. Sometimes we didn't figure it out, the violator did it or didn't it, were guided by one, was in charge of that power. Unthoughtful action is a source of dissatisfaction in society. And it's natural. There are times when even cleaning women were released. This is acknowledged by the president and the government. And imagine the situation in which the State Tax Administration points to the employee's door for his father being on that side of the government. Moral damage is not correct. And there are other people who are burning, who have unwarrantedly photographed professionals, professionals, those who have provided internal work, without which proper management is impossible. And there's no question about it -- it came from the economics and the finances of our country. The need for renewal, for strengthening the public service, is evident. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the new and, above all, the President of the new government to this point: Legislation requires competitive acceptance for the public service. Sadly, this has not been done in the past and is not being done now. A mistake must finally be corrected. I think it's quite unique on a competitive basis to transform the entire public service and do it not in a fire order, but in a phased way, but without hesitation. Such a move would allow for the return of experienced, undeserved workers. I'm not talking about the need for a new edition of the public service law, it's public knowledge, it needs a serious correction. With the problem disturbed, I sent a parliamentary address to the President of Ukraine. Regrettably, the state’s highest officials do not read these petitions. Therefore, I would like you to consider this statement to be a question to the President. Perhaps this will produce the desired result. I ask the chairman to put this matter to the vote. You, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u7	In an order of exception, with the special merit of a former Supreme Council employee, I put to the vote: to support the parliamentary request by Gregory Bondarenko to the President of Ukraine. We vote. [[10:43:45]] For-166 Supported. Now you have to be more friendly to correct. I would like to vote in favour of sending a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:44:07]] For 211 Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. [[10:44:31]] For 208 Next time. Yes, please, Mikola Melnik. Prepare Sergey the Chief. Is there a Head? Then instead of Polito the Bull. Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u8	Mikola Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! With the arrival of Victor Yushchenk’s new team, there are some positive changes in the fight against corruption. In any case, it is desirable to believe in these changes, but this is an essential element of political, economic reforms, since in a corrupt country it is impossible to live well. But in order to end corruption, you, Victor Andryovich, need to end the relationship between business and politics, and only in that sense can you positively affect the economy and establish a healthy political climate in the state. Socialists have taken on the heavy responsibility of being in government, but at the same time, only four ministerial chairs and a few dozen positions that have socialists in executive power cannot have a significant impact on the positive changes in the economy, social and living standards of the poor. It is difficult to work when the images around you are corrupt, immoral, planted, not for the purpose of improving the economic power of the state, but for mere purposes. I'm talking about the Secretary of the RNB, whose hands are focused on all the human resources in the state, he's not an honest politician, he's a businessman, he's a millionaire. The Prašenka family commits blackmail, bribery, violent and immoral press against the citizens of the country in its territory. One of the citizens who was a victim of the Praschenkian Seville decided to turn to Father’s Dust to empathize with him. "Alexia Ivanovich, can't act by force, it's not only democratic, it's not humane, it's immoral. Unless you have enough land in Ukraine, I have borne great expense, but you let me go with a bag around the world," he addresses my father. Your father says, "Listen, boy," fearfully, supremely and in the position of the winner, the father of the honored son, "we came to power, not to play with you, but to take away everything." Hundreds of such examples can be cited. I am no longer able to say for the shadow economy that was created around me and about privatization, it will be later. Tell me, Victor Andryovich, from the adoption of the Dust family, who can be protected? Unless it's from the powder itself. The time has come when we need to go to him consciously in the fields of vigor and fortitude. Victor Andryovich, it's time for you to do what you promised, break poverty with power, the people are waiting. Let businessmen do business, politicians do politics. There's nothing scary about being dusted out of politics. Family and Dusty, poverty and politics are a critical mass in power that can be born with a complete new orange revolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u9	Something's not friendly for the countrymen. George Buiko. Instead of Musiaki, prepare Anatoly of the Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u10	George Buiko, the All-Ukrainian Union of Intelligence for Socialism, a faction of Communists. On 22 June, it was 64 years old from the day of the attack on the Soviet Union by Hitler's Germany and its satellites. Everything related to this great and sad date burns the human memory, sounds nabba, because that memorable day began the grandest and thorny road that had to be taken by the Soviet people in the name of the salvation of the Family. This event was dedicated to the conference “Current problems in the history of Ukraine ahead of the early period of the Great Homeland War”, organized and organized by our association. Scientists, people's deputies, military personnel and representatives of the regions participated in the conference. During the discussion, it was stressed that it was the Fascist Germany that initiated the war against the USSR. Despite the great casualties of the first days of war, it was the heroic resistance of the border guards, the soldiers of the Red Army, of the Navy that brought down the main strategic task of the fascists, an attempt. This gave the world community hope and strength in fighting the aggressors. In recent years, the political component of the enemy's resistance has been deliberately suppressed, i.e. the role of communists, especially commissioners and political workers, has been distorted. In many recent publications, including academics, attempts have been made to completely expose the fascist units of Ukrainian nationalists and, in fact, the collaborators who have established a bloody orgy in the occupied territories of Ukraine and who have been convicted by the International Nuremberg Tribunal. And we know that human blood is not a driver, so I reiterate my call to the Head of the Supreme Council to instruct the committees concerned to consider and evaluate the results of the work of a group of historians at Kabmin who propose to recognize the UPA UN as a warring party and to deal with history textbooks by clearing them out of the forgery. After the 41st came on June 24th, 45th, the Day of the Victory Parade. Today, I am charged with congratulating not only our comrade Valentina Aleseevich Anastassieva as a participant in the 45th and current victory parade in Moscow, but all of us voters, on the 60th anniversary of the Red Square victory parade. And call upon everyone to defend the truth of history so necessary for Ukraine's future.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u11	Anatoly Moroz, group "Democratic Ukraine". John Boki will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u12	Anatoly Moroz, 83 Mikhail's constituency, Zapory region, Democratic Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At the request of several farms and administrations of the Tokmat region of Zaporozhye district, the same fate of the farms is and it concerns many Ukrainian farms, they ask me to contact the Minister of the Agro-industrial complex of the Baranivskie Alexander Petrovich with a request to withdraw as soon as possible from the subordination of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences of the Research Area. The point is that, according to a joint order issued by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences of 28.09.2000, number 194/85 on the organization of a network of basic farms at the centre of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the areas of state research: "Tokmatice", "Zopozicke" of the National Agricultural Research Station, "The Sunshine" of the Institute of Oil Cultures, "Switanok" of the Institute of Animal Engineering are referred to as the basic holdings of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. So far, the district government is very concerned about the financial and economic state of the research holdings located in the territory of Zaporez. And in principle, all of us, dear colleagues, know the fate of these farms. They are completely destroyed and research is being done, mainly in the cultivation of weeds and in the breeding of wolves. To carry out the tasks of the working group established on the basis of a joint order of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences of 16.10.2002 No. 333/8 concerning the implementation of the Presidential Decree of 27.08.2002 No.774 on additional measures to improve the protection of agricultural rights and, in support of the decisions of the working groups of the listed enterprises, ask and personally ask the Minister of Agriculture to assist in the withdrawal from the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Research: Tokmatice, Zaporizke. And in principle, according to the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences Bureau's decree of 10 May 2005, the Central Election Commission's protocol here is included in this list of state-owned enterprises 12 being scientific and research holdings. So I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture, as soon as possible, to take into account the wishes of the district administrations, the heads of these farms, the areas, and to resolve the issue of getting them out of the list, through the subordination of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u13	John Boki, the Socialist faction. After him, Verni Dubov, prepare for Komaru.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Kuchma is gone, and Kuchmism lives. And unfortunately, it's a bitter statement of fact, not some fiction. I want to go back to one wild case. Four years ago, she was released from the National Council on Television and Radio by her representative in the Poltav region, Ludmila Kucherenko. She was released, formally speaking, as if, well, legally. But it doesn't really smell like law. The reason for her release was that she was head of the media at my press conference on the cassette scandal. This was the main reason, and it was recorded on a video clip sent by Kuchmi, sent to the cold and then released, finding another trailer. The reason was that she was an overly legalist and required television studios and radio stations in the Poltava region to keep the legislation clear and to provide a rostrum, the legal provision of a stand for opposition. For four years she has proved herself right in court. I think she's gonna lead her. But today, the National Council, which is today, as if no longer being "tunchmeal," continues the "Quchmish" massacre on Ludmila Kucherenko. Ludmila Kucherenko is now released, as if by another order, because the text of the order has been released. About these days, there must be a trial and, I don't know what the court will decide. But one thing surprises me. Today, people seem to have come to the National Board from the field. But they're continuing the Kuchma case and they're also publishing their press releases that they're, like, political forces, and that only needs to be understood by me, they're pushing and they're protecting the wrong person. People are good, you give the highest marks, you recognize her as the best worker, you recognize her as an active public figure, and you, a little bit of what you send your lawyer, you send a lawyer to keep Ludmila Kucherenko from getting her back. Well, look, it's a complete savagery. How can a person you think of as the best employee be asked to be released after all because, you see, she didn't want to serve Kuchmi. It's something terrible and something terrible. So, as I was saying, Kuchma's gone, and "Qummism" lives, because "Kuchmaks," it turns out, today's painted people who work in many and many jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u15	Please, Nicholas Komar. After him, Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u16	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Fellow MPs, Honourable Voters. The first months of violent activity of today’s authorities have resulted in a fall in economic performance, a failure in the external political direction, a sharp and unwarranted deterioration in relations with Russia, which is already having serious negative economic consequences. The rapid decline in production and the rise of systemic problems in the economy provide extremely serious reasons for concern. In particular, there is a sharp decline in the rate of domestic economic growth in the first quarter. They're almost three times lower than last year. GDP growth was 4.7 to 11.3 percent during the corresponding period in 2004. Industrial production has fallen, and prices are up by one and a half times as high, and inflation is between 3.6 and 5.7 percent. Negative trends are seen by all but new officials. Even the International Monetary Fund, loyal to present-day pro-Western authorities, in its April data, has worsened the forecast of average annual inflation for Ukraine this year from 9.5 to 12.5 percent. If last year GDP has increased, primarily through construction, manufacturing, and trade, today it is just processing and a little transportation. The new authority does not build, so there is no prospect. Today she works as a small speculator. It cost a lot of money to bring the colonial goods back on their terms, get the profits, drive them back and sell them again. At the same time, Ukraine's agriculture and industry -- the foundation of the Ukrainian economy -- are being destroyed to keep the rate of the bracelets. Acting in the interests of the transnational capital, the government has increased transport tariffs, including domestic tariffs. I don't want the government to understand that the railway, like any infrastructure, has to work primarily in the interests of domestic production. Surprisingly, the persistent reluctance of government officials to acknowledge that tariff innovations will inevitably strike the final consumer, a citizen of Ukraine. Another problem that the faction of "Ukraine" attracts public attention. Realizing that the government’s budget plan was failing, the printing press was launched, as Prime Minister Timoshenko recently reported, nearly twice as much money was printed in the first quarter. The imbalance on the scale of psychosis in the actions of today’s authorities, its efforts at any cost, even by destroying a domestic producer, to fulfill the pre-election promises, is explained simply, less than a year before the parliamentary elections. And it's clear that the economy, compared to the pre-election passions, is used by power in a treaty with its own political aspirations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Taras Blackwall, faction of Ukraine. Then we will give the floor to the deputy head of our delegation to Paris Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, I would not want to go back to the subject of a painful subject called political repression. I would like to finally talk about problems, not even as much a problem as the search for ways out of that very difficult economic situation that, unfortunately, the new authorities have put Ukraine in. But we must go back to these problems. There are two reasons. The first is the real blow-up of the so-called separatism case and the fact that at least two people have been charged, an accusation that is totally uncontained by a pile that is falling apart in front of the eyes, because it is only possible to talk about trying by a large group of people to implement the constitutional right to change the state system to the federal system provided by the Constitution through referendums and so forth. These were the methods that were openly discussed at the convention in North London. I find it hard to suspect a preference for separatism, but I respect the right of every person to practice things that are not prohibited by the Constitution. And when today that Tikhov that Kushnarivo and, apparently, in the near future, tens and hundreds of people will incriminate themselves as a crime, is their fundamental constitutional right. We also see the next step that goes forward, this is a very serious desire to exterminate a number of key political figures from the next election campaign, including the direct accusations and threats that today go to the leader of the "Regions" party Viktor Yanukovich, are also absolutely and frankly testifying to the fact that an attempt to accuse people is being made, to pass indictments in court against them as a result of this to the election race, and then to justify, to say that they were wrong. On each of these charges, one can speak for hours, proving their folly. But I would like to mention one thing by mentioning the Christian standard to which Christian standards are so fond of being referred by our new rulers. In another person’s eye, you can see the straw, not the logs in your own eye. The charge of collective responsibility for funding the rescue, in fact, of the Donetsk Airport and at the same time the private visit of Viktor Yushchenk to Ternopol, the most severe violations of funding, fees, budget code violations and everything else. The accusations of some, absolutely, absurd land issues, and at the same time the new President's hand in the Carpathians, in the reserve zone, comes up this mere epoch with an attempt to build, create new residences, which I think Kuchma couldn't even afford, and which I don't even think Brezhev would have allowed himself. I want to warn you, stop, people can see everything, but there's a higher, God's judgment, and they don't take lust and they don't take money. There must be a land somewhere and someone has to be wise, and it must be stopped by the annihilation that is being multiplied today in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u19	Please, Anatoly Rahansky, report on the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Rahansky, Eupatoria constituency, Democratic Ukraine, interfractional association "Deputy Blacks". Dear colleagues, from June 20 to 25, there was another April session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The next session addressed very important issues that also concern Ukraine. First of all, this is a report by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development regarding the investment of funds in Central and Eastern European countries. I personally reported to Mr. Limier, president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, according to his report, and spoke from the political party at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I have severely criticised the European Bank for delaying the provision of funds for the Chernobyl nuclear station's "Hidden" facility, and I have pointed out that, dear colleagues, if we do so, in a few years, it might not be necessary to spend any money, it would not be necessary to talk about the countries of Europe. I thought he'd be offended. But in his speech, master. He said, "I agree with Mr. Rahanski and his warning." And I also made an amendment, which was voted in full, and the entire room voted in favour of this amendment: to pay attention to the lack of funding for the Chernobyl Hidden. The next question was about the environment and the Millennium Development Goals. He also spoke on this issue and drew attention to the Chernobyl station. The next question is that of political prisoners in Azerbaijan. There was a hard discussion, and it was critical of Azerbaijan that there were so many political prisoners in Azerbaijan today. But they also talked about the new president of Azerbaijan. Alieu, who takes measures to release political prisoners, is left with only a few dozen out of 656. But before I spoke, Nina Karpachov called me, and I had to say so. In a telephone conversation, she told me that there were political repressions going on in Ukraine today, and they called Tihonova, other people. I said that, dear friends, tomorrow, after ending political prisoners, we could move on to investigating political prisoners in Ukraine. He warned that this would not happen in other lands as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have made inquiries, made statements, reports. Now we move on to today's agenda. There's a project called "On getting out of crisis of mining and metallurgical enterprises in Ukraine and stabilizing revenue in the State budget from their activities." We need to include the order of the day and make a decision on a reduced procedure. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. Vote. [[11:08:10]] For 155 The factions, please. Our Ukraine is 24, the communists are 48, the Ukrainian regions are 21, the People's Party is 23, the Timoshenko Block is 8, the Socialists are 7, the Ukrainian People's Republic is 0, the Social Democrats are 0, the Democratic Ukraine is 6, the only Ukraine is 12, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs is 3, the Democratic Initiative is 2, the Non-Frakational is 1. Mathematician microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u22	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, the current situation in the income-generating economy is indeed critical. Adam Ivanovich, I think it's just that the MPs haven't been able to focus in time, so I strongly request that we put this question to a vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u23	Yes, Kravchenko, and we will be determined. Mikola Kravchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I am sure that the issue is formulated on the agenda in such a way that people simply do not understand, the people's deputies, as is the case. You and I worked on the customs tariff last week and last week. Everything, they opened the borders and so on. But we've forgotten that there's a production in this neighborhood that can produce a negative result. I therefore ask, Adam Ivanovich, once again - I support Matvienkov's proposal - to return, put the matter to the vote, and I have no doubt that the people's deputies will vote in favour of the inclusion and consideration of the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I see we're a little relaxed. Let's mobilize. I am voting on the motion to return to the vote on the question of inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:10:44]] For 248 We're back. I am voting on the question of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the draft Decision on the exit from the crisis situation of Ukrainian mining and metallurgical enterprises and the stabilization of Ukraine's revenues from their activities, registration number 7622. Please vote. [[11:11:20]] For 285 Decision taken. Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov, please. Ah, Sergey Matvienkov will report, please. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u26	Matvienkov, 33rd District. Dear colleagues, the current situation in the economy is very difficult. It was desirable that the problems that we are solving today when Ukraine joins the SOT or other legislative acts do not obscure this problem. It's not easy to turn it around. The global crisis that has erupted today has led not only to countries such as Ukraine and others, but also to countries such as the EU countries that have so far failed to deal with their budget. To date, we have a very difficult economy, and the situation in the steel industry, especially as a basic industry, has raised some concerns. The metallurgies didn't add about 250,000 tons of steel in the last month. This month, about 500,000 tons of steel will not be added. Orders. No, more than one and a half million tons of unspent metal have been copied in the ports. In the coal industry, there was a first call. You know, in May, the miners weren't paid their wages. To date, the cycles on coked batteries have been increased to 35 to 36 hours, and the coals have not been used. Engineers are denied long-term orders. All of this is happening in a situation where we actually see that our budget, the income part of the budget may not be implemented. On this basis, we have prepared a regulation that has obliged us, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, to consider the situation carefully in order to take a number of concrete steps to move us out of this critical situation. I don't want to stop now, I'd like to give you extra time to consider the Law. As for the ruling itself, I can only say one thing: The decree in its own time, it is practically too late. It obliges us to prepare a draft law, together with the Cabinet of Ministers. We have prepared this bill, and today we want to bring it to your attention. Therefore, in order not to waste time, I ask the MPs: first, to take the order. Once again, I stress that it is already late. We have fulfilled those obligations that lie before us, that is the first. Secondly, vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act, which would ensure that the income part of the budget is replenished and would lead us out of the critical situation we are in to date. At least in some way, it'll make up for getting out of the situation. And thirdly, allow us, the Committee, together with the Government, to finalize the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you look at it, there is no bill. Well, is that a document? That's how we need to put the question down and consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u28	I'm offering. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u29	Yeah, what "vote"? It says June 15th to listen. What number do we have today? Look, nobody even corrected that document.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u32	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is such a proposal: so once again, I stress the decision in my, so to speak, over time, in the temporary space, she is practically late. In the decree, there, the Cabinet of Ministers and I have dealt with all issues, practically, over. The Cabinet of Ministers met twice, and we set up a working group. The Working Group worked. For us, the second part of this decree is important. We have prepared a bill that we wish to bring to the attention of the deputies. And we ask that this bill be put into the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, you can do it this way and let's consult, maybe you can support it. We've listened to your information, we won't make decisions, because there's no object to take. Now we're going to include the bill and we're going to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u34	He was absolutely in agreement with that situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u35	There is no subject to be considered. The bill you have, take it, it's the next document. Dear colleagues, according to the schedule of meetings, the first is document No. 7622, and the second is document No. 7638 and you have it. To have an effective decision, or practical return, on our discussion, we need to discuss a bill. Because with regard to the draft decree on which they insisted, it refers to this Law, which was worked by the working group together with the government. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u36	Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is a proposal to include Bill No. 7638 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u37	Kravchenko, please, then - Kachur
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u38	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am one of the authors of this order. Dear people's deputies, I ask you to listen for a second. What is it? When we made this decision, the goal was to force the Cabinet of Ministers to return to this mining and metallurgical complex. And the ruling, to date, even the draft regulation, has already played a role in the establishment of a working group that has worked and is an agreed version of the bill with the Government. We can today: either formally adopt and approve this decree, which has fulfilled its role. But I would like to draw attention to the second paragraph, which reads, "Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to submit a bill." Therefore, we can, indeed, now withdraw from the draft regulation and begin the consideration of the bill's day.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u39	Paul Kachur, please. And we're going to be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u40	Paul Kachur, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. It's a good thing we took this decision off the table. That's how they could vote for her in the heat. But even the authors of the draft decree came from the fact that the bill should be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. There really is a problem. So today a working group has been set up to solve this problem. But, dear friends, let's not act on the principle that if there are profits, it's all normal, nobody's looking, it's not ruling, it's not providing the State budget. When problems begin, let us deal with these problems at the expense of the State Budget. I have a technical proposal. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the bill has an impact on the budget, should be considered in accordance with the procedure set out. We've already adopted a lot of bills that balance the state budget. Let's stop this.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, the bill was introduced in 10.06.2005. The government has a working group that includes Ukrainian national deputies. This task force that held the meeting for one minute, let me tell you. This working group, which held meetings directly under the leadership of the First Deputy Prime Minister and then the Prime Minister of Ukraine, worked on a project. In order to accelerate his passage through the Supreme Council, he serves as a deputy, as others do. I'd like Matthew to confirm or refute my information, please. But we have to turn it on, yeah. Please, fellow Members, your will.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, Victor Mihajlovich, I ask you to confirm that we are truly together. Victor Mikhailovich, listen to the end. Just because you don't agree with some of the bills doesn't mean you have to say you didn't. We set up a working group together. Julia Vladimirovna held three meetings, at which a working group was established and chaired by her Gurov, the Committee was tasked with drafting and passing a draft law to resolve the situation. That's what we did, and we put in a bill. The project was handed over to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers considered him, with some positions he agreed, with some positions he did not. In order to make a informed decision today, we ask and ask: first, to include this bill on the agenda once and for all. Secondly, listen carefully, because today there is a perverse view that the law is a benefit or prerogative for someone — for the steel industry or for another industry. This is absolutely not a particular industry. It is a matter of correcting the situation that we have encountered in adopting the 2005 budget. We've changed more than 80 laws, not more! There's not a single benefit, there's just the rules of the game that we have to play on today's markets on the basis of the stock market, how we can get out, first and foremost, of the locomotive industry, really, because we understand that metalworks will work, raw materials will work, machine builders will work and so on. So, Victor Mihajlovich, I would also ask you not to take an interesting position so that the SOT, once again, does not blacken our eyes and we do not wake up after tomorrow and see zeros in the budget. And so we don't bite our elbows. Let's at least consider this bill today, those positions where you agree, say you agree. To the second reading we will lead and find a common compromise language because we have one problem: pensioners, teachers, doctors, these are our people who have to pay higher wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this, please! Let's do it this way, attention, please! Let's make a deal like this: let's now put a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of Act 7638 into your mind. If all of a sudden the Supreme Council refuses to include us, then we will make a readjusted decision by which we will be obliged by the government to give us a project for the next plenary week, that is all. I can't see another way out. Therefore, the first is the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 7638, amendments and additions to some Ukrainian laws to ensure a more effective functioning of the internal market and to prevent possible losses of the Ukrainian State budget. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:22:36]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. For reasons, please write this down. On the board are the names that are written down, the national MPs. Yuri Karmazin, prepare Kravchenko. It's from the rostrum. Boris Bespali. Sorry, I didn't see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u44	Boris Bespaliy, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine." I've got a few suggestions, I'm out of procedure. The first proposal, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, before such drafts, where the role of the government in the development, which was jointly considered, was a great request. Before the vote, propose also to a government representative so that we know the position of the government. Because the committee reporter kept referring to the government, the government was not clear whether he agreed or not. This is the first position. Second position, I have a big request not to use, as is often the case, this is our discussion to put once again to the vote. I propose this project, in this case, not to be put to the vote. And finally, then essentially the bill, I don't want to discuss right now, I suggest you go back to considering a decision that is included and let the committee, and the government are looking for a common solution, because there really is a problem. But you don't need it right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u45	Please, Domansky, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihailovich, please give the floor to the first Secretary of the Donetsk General Company of Ukraine Kravchenko Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u47	I am now speaking, not as the first secretary, but as one of the subsectors of the metallurgical complex. And as a politician, I'm telling you, in the third quarter, no law will help us any more. One minute 1.7 billion. Loss of profits is expected from the steel complex. I don't know what Mr. Pinzenick is going to do by September-October, but they don't care because they've already passed all the laws concerning customs tariffs and SOTs. They don't care about Ukraine, they don't care that the pots didn't get paid for the first time in 14 years, because they didn't work because coke wasn't demanded and so on, further along the chain. Today, socialists are downing the problem, today, BUT and Our Ukraine are down. And, "Our Ukraine," Mr. Hijinov, I'm telling you, it's not good for you. If you close the accounts with Ilyich's combination. That doesn't mean you had to have a faction, a normal fraction, because they were always normal in production. You're ruining this case today. I'll tell you again: in the third quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u48	Now we're going to finish the speech -- then Mikhailo Zyjenov will have the right to a replica, because his last name was mentioned. Valentin Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u49	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respected members of the people, the fact that the situation in the mining and metallurgical complex is indeed very serious, but is also considered as suggested by the Committee, and in particular by the colleague of Matvienkov, in no way possible. I fully support the offer of Bespalogo's colleague: we must listen to the views of both Governments and the Committee, and the people's deputies, and approach this issue with due consideration. So a lot of questions are asked when the representatives of this complex are starting to tell us about the terrible losses and so on. Let them in Mariupol see what they've turned into two giants of metal industry in this city. The owners of the factories receive surpluses, people receive a response except for relatively small wages, poisoned air, poisoned water and conditions in which they cannot live. I therefore demand that we address this issue in conjunction with the representatives of the Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u50	Mikhailo Zjirov, please repeat. The author will then have a justification. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to say this: no one's counting between Illich's metallurgical combination or anything else. Unfortunately, in recent years, all of these enterprises have become private, and the sale of metal products is done only through offshore areas, where 30 to 40 percent of the value remains abroad. This is true of Illich’s metallurgical combination. Above all, billions of dollars are not directed towards the environment, which is not directed at the technical refitting of these combinations. We're staying here today and making food, which is really not competitive in the market today. Our technical and energy needs are 30 percent higher than in Western Europe in the metallurgical complex. We don't produce an autolist today, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u52	Thank you. Author, please. And now we're going to figure it out. Igor Raphailovich, unfortunately, I can't, because there are 20 more people written down. One minute, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I will not comment here on the speeches of some comrades who revolve around the metal industry by constantly filling their pockets. That's not the point. I want to say one thing. My dears! The city of Mariupol, so you can understand, is now one of the best cities in Ukraine. The average wage in the city of Mariupole is 1200 griven. In the city of Mariupol. Please come and see. I'll invite you there, please, and we'll come and see it together. That's the first one. Second. I'm asking you to understand, this is not about metallurgy. It's not about engineering. This is our industry. This is the income part of the budget. We don't ask for any preferences. The law consists of literally three parts. Part one, these are normal rules of the VAT game, where normal business enterprises should have a clear timely return. That's the first one. Second. It is about removing monopolies who are above profit, including exports abroad. We're for doing this. This is limited to 30 per cent. That's the second one. Third. It's about creation. including metallurgy. This is about creating normal conditions for the game by depreciation because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u54	Yes, thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sit down, please. Please, have a seat. Don't control me. Dear colleagues! One moment, please. Change the Rules, we'll be a faction. Or let's vote now that we're going to work until we consider the entire schedule of sessions, I'm ready to give everyone the right to speak. Are you interested in politics or in the adoption of government bills? Dear colleagues! Yesterday, Valérie Assadchev said very correctly, when we voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of some of the draft laws relating to the introduction of the WTO, we first need to make a technical decision to include, and then we need to listen to the arguments, and we need to make or not make a decision. Now we don't include questions in the agenda, showing a political approach. If we are to have understanding and harmony in the session room, we must obviously make all the suggestions from the government to include in the agenda, to discuss, and then, on the basis of a discussion, to make a decision. Please don't let him take you away from your high office. Be tolerant, I never interrupt. We'll see what the results are, calm down. So, your honorary colleagues, let's either look at the bill, or we can go to different kinds of things, and we can make political manifests. It's easier, I understand. To do this, you don't have to read the bill, you just have to wave and express your point of view. Let's make a decision. That's why we're making this proposal. Please listen carefully. I'm going to put a return vote on the bill, if we don't take it, and I'm going to put it to a vote, which I've already drafted, so that we can have an agreed option and look at it. That's it. So, if you'll excuse me, please. There is a motion for a return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on ensuring the functioning of the internal market and preventing the possible executions of the State budget]] [[11:32:15.]] For-200 The bill is not included in the agenda. The factions, please. Our Ukraine - 0 Communists - 56, Ukraine - 43, People's Party - 28, SPU-26, Block Timoshenko - 10, Ukrainian People's Party - 2, SDPU -1, Democratic Ukraine - 0, Ukraine - 14, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs -12, Democratic Initiatives -0. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is proposed to take such a decision, and I will read: "Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make a legislative proposal to withdraw from the crisis situation of Ukrainian mining and steel companies and stabilize them from their activities for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 7 July 2005." A normal offer? Please vote. This is Project No. 7622. [[completed]] [[11:33:34]] For 361 I am grateful that we have found understanding, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, we were about to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2005. The government proposes to postpone it to the next plenary week because there are some points that need reconciliation and processing. Is there no objection? But on the condition that it will be worked out and we will immediately accept it as the Law, this project. It's government and we have to support it. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I ask you to focus so that we can work productively. We now need to include in order the daily draft of the Act on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport. Registration number 7570. Please vote. [[11:34:53]] For 224 By factions, please mobilize. "Our Ukraine" - 71, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 16, People's Party - 29, Block Timoshenko - 31, SPU - 22, Ukrainian People's Party - 20, SDPU (o) -0, "Democratic Ukraine" -0, "Only Ukraine" -7, "Industries, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine" -12, Democratic Initiatives - 8, non-fractional - 8. Dear colleagues, we were the only ones with you that we need to consider the fact that the Supreme Council had made a reasoned decision, not just refused to include any other issue before consideration. The Supreme Council needs to consider, and what will be the decision is another matter. I am voting on the proposal to return to the consideration of the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of transport vehicles. Registration number 7570. Please vote. [[11:36:07]] For 248 Decision taken. Now, dear fellows, I am voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:36:33]] For 256 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Minister of Economy Sergey Anatoliyovich Teryohin is invited to report. Yes, as long as the minister is not here, we're putting off our honourable colleagues. Can't you? We've put it into the agenda. Please note, fellow Members, that a motion is now being put to the vote for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7562 on General Product Safety. Please vote. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[11:37:36]] For 239. Decision taken. The report invites the first deputy head of the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy, Sejevich Ivan Bronislavovich. Sergey Anatolyovich Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u55	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, is present. The draft Ukrainian Law on General Product Safety has been developed by the State Committee on Technical Regulation and Consumer Policy with the European and Comparative Law Center of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the basis of a directive of the Council of the European Parliament and of the Council 2001-95-EU since 3 December 2001 on the overall safety of production. First of all, it is important for Ukraine, where there is a product that is dangerous to life and to the health of its population, to prevent its consumption and use. In addition, the compliance of Ukrainian manufacturers with the requirements of this law will help to avoid technical barriers in the way of promoting domestic production to the world’s markets. The bill establishes the definition of the terms "safe products" and "dangerous products", the obligation of the manufacturer and the distributor to provide information on the danger posed by its products to the consumer, the requirements for the removal or withdrawal of dangerous products and the granting of appropriate competence, the right of the consumer to apply for the verification of the safety of the product to a special authorized executive authority, the authorization of the specially authorized executive authorities in the field of product safety, the responsibility for the breach of the legislation on general product safety, the position regarding the adoption of decisions by the central executive authorities, and the procedure for the submission of explanations and objections. The adoption of this law will allow for the establishment of general principles for the placing and distribution on the market of products that are safe for human life and health, for regulating the relationship between executive authorities of manufacturers, distributors and consumers, for the creation of a system of procedures aimed at ensuring, placing on the market, or for the distribution of only products that are safe for consumption and use, for the manufacturer, for the distributor to provide information that enables the consumer to assess the risks of the product when using it. The committee is asking for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u56	Thank you, sit down, please. Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I would like to speak frankly of the past, but we will not. The main requirement of this Act to comply with European requirements, Ukraine's accession to the WTO. A government body, a specially authorized representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, is indeed not clear that it will be an additional body or body that will be established on the basis of the State standard that exists to date. This bill introduces a new concept of definition, as a consequence, that we are changing the legislative framework somewhere more than ten laws. One thing can be said that in a thorough analysis of the bill, the law is quite “cheese”, a lot of uncertainty, a lot of inaccuracies. It is not clear that such information, its contents, has an absolute theory of how to work a producer, is not at all clear who and how to carry out the analyses is not clearly defined in this law. It is a fear of stopping proceedings without a court decision, i.e. any supervisory authority can today, as planned, when we were considering the disk law, come and stop proceedings. These changes under the Regulatory Policy Act should be discussed with the manufacturer and this is stipulated in the Regulatory Policy Act, at least for six months, the rules of the game should change. However, this law is not determined when and how it is put into effect. The greatest disadvantage is that there is a simplified system of work for the importer, for example, there is no system of responsibility, as in the world, through the resident. That is, how this system exists everywhere in the world, there is a resident through which the manufacturer of a product works. The resident is fully responsible for what's happening here. Unfortunately, we have a simplified system to make it impossible, bring fireworks, realize, happen, don't give a god, an accident who sold it, through which structures it's impossible to find anyone. But we can accept everything if we consider that if this law could be adopted as a framework. Indeed, we need the security system in the country so far, it is clearly unwritten, there are no rules here and there are no mechanisms here. The Committee therefore considered the issue and proposed that, given that the law was indeed quite “cheese”, it should be adopted only on first reading. And together with the Cabinet, the Minister will complete it because it requires very serious refinements.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill or will we make a decision? Please, Yuri Karmazin, Yuri Anatolyevich. You don't? Then I will ask Yuri Petrovich Solomatin to speak. Please. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully studied this bill on general product safety and was surprised that it is in the Cabinet of Ministers that there is an attempt to introduce some definitions that are very unusual and, more importantly, dangerous. For example, a safe product is recognized as any product that under normal conditions of use or consumption does not pose a threat to the life and health of consumers, their property, the environment and so on. There is still such a sentence. Products are considered safe if their safety is confirmed in accordance with the requirements laid down by law. Tell me, please, and if this is not established by legislation, then will we agree with the quality of such products that we will be supplied with? Moreover, a solemn declaration is made by any consumer, including nonresidents who have acquired the product but who have doubts about its safety, and is granted the right to contact a special authorized executive authority with a request to verify its safety. Would you please tell me, if you make a call, it'll be a free check? Whether a proper agency will offer to make a deal and pay for such trials and for such a check, a certain amount of money. I assure you, no one will do anything for free. So this is the issue that needs to be settled in the law if it is to be adopted. And if the issue is not settled, such a law cannot be passed. Moreover, the bill determines the order of removal and withdrawal of products, as well as the authorization of specially authorized executive authorities in the field of security. That's good: deleted and what's next? This is not fully understood or fully stated: Who will be the owner of the deleted product, how it will be treated, or how it will continue to be used, and will be provided with compensation for a certain portion of the cost if a person has purchased it, but can no longer return it to the supplier. It's a very raw bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u60	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction, please. Get ready for Eugene Hoarder.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u61	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Dear compatriots, I cannot vote in favour of this bill, like the Communist faction as a whole, because it is not only raw, but also, in general, aimed at meeting only the requirements of the International Monetary Fund and other structures that govern the economies of the world and the economies of our State and the policies of our State, not for the benefit of our people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill should undoubtedly be more consistent with the Ukrainian National Security Framework Act, which is fundamental in this regard. And there is no doubt that clarity should be shown with regard to the poor imports of products that threatened and threatened us and would be even more threatening when Ukraine entered the WTO. It is very sad that, in considering the bill on the mining complex, which is the back of our State, which is increasingly weakening, in which 80 per cent of the major funds have been earmarked, the majority of the Supreme Council voted against the draft law, on behalf of the President and the Government of Ukraine. We see a lack of protection for the national economy, for the interests of our people. And here's the bill, it's being considered, and I'm very afraid it's going to be adopted. But if it is accepted, respected fellow countrymen, draw a conclusion. Everyone who has voted in favour of the so-called WTO recommendations, or the WTO in Ukrainian, does not harm their own economy, and the people of Ukraine do not serve the people. Finally, we need to conclude that who is a true patriot and who is lipo earns the opportunity to be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to get paid, to have certain benefits and so on. And, of course, these hypocrites, immoral people never admit it, will continue to call themselves Leep Patriots. I'm drawing your attention at least to the fishing industry. Please pay attention to more and more foreign products in our market. And she's very expensive. Why? Because the domestic fishing industry is being destroyed. And it's done purposefully. There are bribes to make foreign fish products come here, huge bribes. This has been done and done by representatives of the Government and the President. We have to stop this. In order to do so, it is necessary to ensure the authority of the people, the election of communists and other supporters of socialism. Oh, I'm afraid I can't see that yet. Here's the swinger's hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u62	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u63	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that our Government has in some cases made a mistake in explaining to certain bills mentioning the words of the introduction to the World Trade Organization. And these are some of the speakers used as some kind of scarecrow that because there is this expression, you can't vote for this bill. Let's just say that this bill is somehow aimed at entering either the World Trade Organization or the One Economic Space. Let's think about whether we need safe and quality products or not. Well, let's get out of the way of common sense. If we need healthy and quality products, no matter where we enter or not, we have to release them, first. And second of all, to protect our market from bad product when it's imported. Import And let's get out of this very professional way when we consider this bill. Yes, this bill is imperfect, it can be criticized, but it is a framework, and however it is said that it is raw, it will never be brought to perfection, because the nature of the framework laws is that they can always be improved. Yes, I also have doubts as to where this body will come from, which will control the quality, what costs it will have, which it will be authorized to have. But on the other hand, the fear that will stop the product -- you know, the same authority has a technical inspector who stops dangerous manufacturing if it's necessary, if it's a threat to people's lives. The same should be true of this inspector. The only thing he has to do is be responsible, if he has applied it, in violation of the law or without justification. Therefore, all these speculations that these bills are needed are imposed on Ukraine, and antipatrioticly imposed on Ukraine do not have any ground. On the contrary, such artificial breeding does not allow our production to rise to standards that would prevent this metallurgical crisis. I therefore propose that the bill be taken as a basis and voted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u64	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u65	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! Is there a problem with quality of production in Ukraine? I think you'll all say what you have. Because you all know the quality of our production, whether it's vodka products, where 10,000 people die a year just because of what they drink, whether it's food or something else. So let's not translate this problem today into a political plane, which is kind of a means of smothering us through some kind of SAT mechanism. Nothing like that. This is just a requirement today to ensure a high quality of production. We should always keep in mind that providing high quality products is also a protection of our internal market. When we liberalize the economy today with the efforts of our government, we need to understand that there should be new market protection mechanisms on the other pole, not tariff mechanisms. One of these mechanisms is the quality requirements of production. So the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party urges you to vote in the first reading for this bill so that we can move forward. The other one. We need to improve this bill. For example, I have many warnings about many articles. In particular, we need to detail the composition of the information about this product. And I haven't found in this bill what language this information is going to be. And again, we're going to have the practice that we have today, we're going to go into stores, we're going to buy imported goods, and there's English or some other language, and many of our people, in principle, can't know what composition of that product or whatever else. Hence, the bill must state that the product is supplied alongside other languages in the national language. After all, let us be patriots of our nation and think of our citizens. To think that some kind of production will harm our citizen, and we will thus destroy our nation. Likewise, I want to talk about regulating the order of withdrawal, disposal and destruction. Here, too, there are no very clear rules. And that's why we can see processes that will give birth to other problems: produce is inequitable, it needs to be disposed of, it doesn't have procedures, it doesn't have discards that pollute water or other things. All of this must be written out and the responsibility must, too, be written down. And one last warning. This is what we need to bring this Law into line with the Ukrainian National Security Framework Act. So, honourable national MPs, let's not go looking for any big politics here. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party urges you to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading so that it can be refined and opened to legislative possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Consideration of the bill. Three minutes of motivation, please write for me and invite the national deputies to the session room. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. Yuri Carmazin, then Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, the Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read this Law carefully, I have looked at it carefully, and I will tell you that it is very safe for manufacturers. In one stroke we took and included here, we, the drafters of the bill. See article 11 “Responsibility for Infringement of Legislation on General Product Safety”. A manufacturer who failed to provide adequate information for the infringement is fined 10 percent of the value of the product. Next, fines are imposed in general in this article, fines are fined, and fines are fined. Ladies and gentlemen, see if you've been reached by the Committee on Legal Policy on this? Did the Legislative Committee give you a conclusion? No committee on this issue has considered the absence of conclusions and such fines cannot be established, for it is generally impossible and, in this Law, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u68	Victor Mironenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u69	Please pass on the word of Cibenko to Petra Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u70	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u71	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, one of our colleagues recently urged us not to use scarecrows. I'm not going to do that, but I'll remind you, dear colleagues, as no one else in March of last year as the Supreme Council, which is you and I, have passed a law prohibiting imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of vehicles over five years of age. A year later, we are invited to do another thing. So it's about what's being suggested, in fact, that we bring metal scraps into the territory of Ukraine in the form of means of transport. I don't think we're going to do that, and for that, our voters will only be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u72	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko's block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u73	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Here's what I'd like to say. We have different views in the room as to the fact that SOT, under the pressure of STO, we adopt a number of laws, etc. etc. Thus, we must thank the WTO for finally coming to the most serious problem that has terrorized society for 15 years. The quality of the products is referred to. We are all people's deputies, and we are perfectly self-consuming and consumers of these products, and we know how low the quality of both foreign and domestic products goes. Here my fellow Hare spoke of the fact that we really only die from bad quality alcohol every year from 13,000 to 15,000 people. In fact, we have lost 150 in 10 years and about 200,000 of our citizens in 15 years. This is in a situation where the demographic situation is extremely, very serious. I therefore believe that we must support the point of view of my colleagues who have expressed their wishes and demands that we take this bill very carefully and cautiously. And we must give those orders to complete it with our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It is up to you to consider a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Ukrainian Law on General Product Safety. Registration number 7562. Please vote. [[12:00:12]] For 258. Decision taken. Yeah, by factions? Please: "Our Ukraine" - 75, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 0, People's Party - 34, Block Timoshenko - 33, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU - 0, "Democratic Ukraine" - 16, "One Ukraine" - 16, Party of Industrialists - 13, "Dem. Initiatives" - 9, non-fractional - 14. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of transport vehicles is under review. Registration number 7570. Reporter: Minister of Economics Sergei Anatoliyovich Teryohin. Anatoly Seminog will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill is being tabled for your consideration on some import issues into the customs territory of transport vehicles. The bill is designed to bring national legislation to international standards of import into the customs territory of vehicles used. The bill is aimed at bringing Ukraine's legislation to the provisions of articles 3 and 11 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the Partnership Agreement, cooperation between Ukraine and the European Community and the Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, followed by the UN/ECE on the adoption of the only technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts that can be installed or used on wheeled vehicles. The changes introduced by the bill to existing legislation relate, on the one hand, to increasing the age of buses and trucks imported into customs territory for permanent use from five to eight years. But since the second year, with the aim of halting imports into Ukraine of outdated technology, transport equipment produced more than five years ago must comply with the UN/ECE rules, according to which the first registration of buses and trucks is carried out in the case of environmental standards of Euro-3. During the drafting of the bill on the Committee on Finance and Banking, a number of comments and suggestions were made by the National Deputies regarding the only approach to the application of Eurostandards for both import and export of cars. Taking into account the proposals, the government has revised the bill and sent a letter to the Supreme Council dated 14.06 this year, a detailed edition that meets the current environmental standards of national legislation at the time of import of the means of transport used and the international requirements of the rules. The UN, and suggests that the draft law be put forward for discussion with changes in the following character. The first registration of buses and trucks under the codes of the UCC - 8702, 8704, including the temporary one, during the passage to the customs territory for free use, which at the time of importation has been made for more than five years, is permitted when they meet the rules. The UN, which is used for both domestic and imported vehicles. And a document that shows that the means of transport are compatible with the requirements of the rules. The UN must be a certificate of conformity issued in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Simply put, honourable national MPs, we're closing down the possibility of importing environmentally friendly means of transport. Regrettably, today, Ukrainian legislation does not contain this requirement. Therefore, according to the decision of the government and the decision of the committee, the bill is proposed to adopt it in the first reading and to develop it into a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u76	Thank you, too. Anatoly Seminoga, a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u77	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration, it is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers a draft of the Ukrainian Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of means of transport. The bill provides for the introduction of national legislation prohibiting imports into the customs territory of Ukraine for the permanent use of buses and trucks which were manufactured at the time of importation for more than all years. In accordance with the provisions of Article 2 of the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, Articles 3 and 11 of the GAT, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Community and the United Nations Agreement on the Adoption of the Only Technical Prescriptions for Wheeled Vehicles, the Equipment of Parts. installed or used on wheeled vehicles. And the terms and conditions of mutual recognition of official approvals issued on the basis of these prescriptions. The need for adoption of the project is primarily due to the need to ensure compliance with the requirements of the WTO. During the committee discussion, members of the committee made a number of comments and suggestions to the draft law on the sole approach to the application of Eurostandards both to imports and to the export of Ukrainian cars and to the entry into force of the bill. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted on the basis of the comments of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council concludes that the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's position, support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Nobody insists? Oh, no? Carmazine, please. And we'll vote. And Solomatin, of course. Two men insist: Carmazin and. The third Noshchenko insists. That's it. We will. And Mironenko. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u79	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I took the floor because there were different opinions about this law before the law was considered. I just want everyone to understand the point. The essence of the law is very, very simple. The project and I don't even see what there is to look at for a second reading, and there you could look at it in the first. I don't really see what to do here. The project suggests that cars manufactured and operated for more than eight years should not be imported into customs territory. You and I passed a law last year where we were allowed to do so for up to five years. But we were allowed to import everything by the time we were five years old. And now the government writes and correctly says that only those that meet euro-3 standards. These are modern - day cars. We don't have any cars that match the euro-3 yet in Ukraine. So it's really good for ecology. And what happened in Kiev today is that there's nothing to breathe because the number of buses has been reduced almost three times, the number of routes has increased, the number of routes that are in line with the law that we passed, but not equipped with Euro-3. And that is why we today have such an increase in these diseases, and we cannot breathe on the streets of Kiev and on the streets of other cities. Thus, honourable national MPs, this law in this case is absolutely progressive, despite the fact that there are eight years, not five years. Moreover, this law explicitly states that a document which shows that the means of transport are compatible with the Euro-3 standard is a certificate of conformity issued in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. So there's not going to be any mumbo jumbo to define, and legislation will determine Ukraine. This applies only to buses and only to trucks. If you look at what kind of truck park we have, if you look at what fuel costs we get ourselves choked by the neck of our country. Why? We have extremely expensive cars, this is an extremely old park, and we don't encourage the import of new cars, and then they can't drive products to the West. We only take it to the border, and then other firms overheat these firms, usually foreign firms. That's why I'm proposing to pass this law. If there is no comment, it can also be accepted in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u80	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction Get ready, Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, honourable radio listeners, I want to make more clear the essence of this controversial view of this bill, which is on the one hand with those who support it, and on the other hand with those who abstain or oppose it. I will remind you that in March 2004, a year ago, the Supreme Council passed a law banning the import of buses and trucks into the customs territory of Ukraine, or using them to use spare parts of them. A ban if, on time, at the time of import, they were manufactured and or used for more than five years. So five years -- there was a limit. Now this limit is proposed to increase to eight years. And this difference, from 5 to 8 years, under European standards, is the limit, when by 5 years, it's still a product, and after 5 years, it's a mess. There is a border for importing a junkyard that lacks space on landfills to import into Ukraine. It's on the one side. And on the other hand, instead of using your own production, or the production that it is. But some of our manufacturers are trying to create, to help create their own production of buses and trucks. We're giving up on this and, for the sake of the world's trade organization, we're creating, so-called, market-based, equal market relations with those who already exist for decades of their own production, who have their own brands, have their own well-established production, and who will never again give it to Ukraine, they won't give it a car ride to get on its feet. So let's draw a conclusion with you: who, in order for the future to be in Ukraine's car building, will not, of course, vote in favour of such a bill. Who, in order to destroy him permanently and permanently, is clearly right to vote for him. Let's draw a conclusion from the results of the vote, and let our voters trace the results of the vote and draw their own conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u82	Mikola Nightshenko. Microphone, please turn it on. Prepare Victor Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u83	Nightshenko, 160th constituency, Democratic Ukraine, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Our faction will support this bill, but, at the same time, for those who listen and watch, I want to notice that the increase. For one thing, unfortunately, Ukrainian automobiles today cannot compete with motor vehicles that are being driven, even more than five years of age. For example, I was convinced of this when I was present at the handover by the State of the school bus to myself in the district: European prices and, unfortunately, Ukrainian prices. So I want to point out that it's about extending the term of use on trucks and buses, but it doesn't affect the means of transport that are imported under the humanitarian aid program. We now have thousands of cars for people with disabilities in line with the Humanitarian Aid Act. It's this huge turn, about 170,000 cars, which, according to medical evidence, the state has to give to the car, and then there, the esteemed colleagues, are actually driving up the messes and cars that create danger for both the driver and those who stand outside. I want to go back and say, we're voting for this, but the problem of importing a former vehicle needs the government to rethink and make a balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u84	Victor Mironenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u85	Fifth constituency, Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Comparty faction. Respectable fellow countrymen, we are willing to believe what we want. And we often hear some wish that the Government there, the President, will take into account in the drafting of a second-reading bill. We hear that this bill can help with environmental issues, as if no one knows that, because of such care and the United States, which controls the WTO, and other Western countries, our economy has declined into two, and our environment, our minds, has deteriorated. It's like no one knows I just mentioned the fish industry. Fishermen and not only fishermen and those who truly cared for the environment demanded that the same fish products from the Baltic republics should not be imported because the fish was infected. Well, it's good again. This is the free trade regime that the WTO is imposing on us, which is beneficial. Why? Because such politicians in the West are very positive, they also benefit greatly from it. And as a result, we see, we keep talking about ecology, life gets worse, the economy goes down. And we're constantly told that these are the demands of the West, the WTO, the United States to support. But notice, the United States and other developed countries that control the WTO require very much of us, including the adoption of this bill. However, they themselves support the domestic sectors of the economy. Why? Because they are powerful in WTO. Ukraine, entering WTO, will not be able to impose its demands. It will be inextricably compliant with WTO requirements, which means the United States and other developed countries. In this case, will we support domestic automobile construction? Of course not. And we're told that smoke is, as if, an interpreter, a beautiful speaker, and there we have to fight it for the environment. Yes, if we do as you say, we will finally destroy the Zaporozhye Automobile Plant and all hopes of developing a national automobile. It is not possible to ensure competitiveness without the support of domestic industries. It's not like we can make a beautiful car unless we support our industry. And you'll pay attention, because this bill is in what direction? The requirement is article 49 of the stated contract, yes, it does involve the refusal of support for domestic industries. Denial. Who doesn't understand? President and Government? But if you're patriots, if you're really patriotic, then why are you hypocrites? Why are you talking about the need to support such bills and the early entry into WTO? Because it destroys Ukraine's economy, our country, which you say you love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, consideration of the draft Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of transport vehicles has been completed. What, what? Now. The rabbit, please, was registered. The miner was recording. One minute, please. One minute, and then we'll ask the minister to make a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u87	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt this bill in the first reading. This is what I was talking about recently from the rostrum when I said that we need non-tariff methods of regulation, and that's the only way we can protect our internal market. If we do not create this legislation, we will destroy the market. This needs to be clearly understood. As it used to be with the earth. They didn't want to create legislation on land privatization, they stole land, they stole property. But I want this draft article five to go away with the phrase: "standards and technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures should, if possible, take into account the special needs of developing financial and commercial needs of developing WTO member states. Dear friends, so you can't write in law, I don't think the WTO is asking us to do that. So I have to fly out and we create legislation to standardize, certification, protect our manufacturer and our market, rather than create to worship someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u88	Eugene Gorenik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u89	The faction of our Ukraine. In principle, I also wanted to draw the government’s attention to this phrase. If the government removes it, the law can be passed in the first and second readings, it really serves to help our transportation and our electorate, who will drive in quality transport, not breathe through the gases of 40-year-old Icarus. I propose a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u90	Yes, please, Minister of Economy Sergey Anatolyevich Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u91	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The representative of the Hare has already learned that he has read the wrong phrase from that law, and there is no one close to him. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is aimed at improving the ecological state of our country, this time. Entering non-tariff import control methods, two. And I fully agree, by the way, with national automobile manufacturers. So there's a proposal, because we need to put a sign of equality between the EC, the UN and our internal standards of environmental DTSO, a request to be accepted in the first reading, a basis, and a week from now, with the State Standard and our manufacturers, we'll work it out, we'll offer it in the end. Please support the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the proposal of the committee, supported by the government, to adopt a draft law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine of transport means, is on the table. Registration number 7570. [[12:22:08]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. The faction? Please. "Our Ukraine" - 79, Communists - 0, "Ukraine" - 4, People's Party - 33, Block Timoshenko - 34, SPU - 25, Ukrainian People's Party - 23, SDPU (o) - 4, Democratic Ukraine - 18, "One Ukraine" - 19, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine - 13, "Democratic Initiatives" - 10, "Afterfractional" - 14. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Automobile Industry Act. [[about the cancellation of localization conditions]] Registration number 7569. [[12:23:11]] For 235 Decision taken. Let's move on to the bill. Minister of Economy Terjohin Sergey Anatoliyovich is invited to report. Mother Vitaly Ivanovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary National MPs, article four of the Ukrainian Automotive Development Act, states: "For the purposes of this law, a country of origin of a car, a motorcycle, a complete production or a spare part is considered Ukraine if the cost of used nodes and parts from other countries or unknown origins is less than 50 per cent of the price. a factory, a manufacturer of such a car, a motorcycle, a complete production or a spare part." Unfortunately, such a phrase does not solve the problem of lifting localization conditions and entering a transition period. The fourth draft article of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments and Supplements to Article 1 and 4 is proposed for three years following the year of Ukraine's accession to the WTO, and the rules of origin are applied to determine the origin, the AS sub-paragraph two: the principles of application during the transitional period of part two of the framework agreement on the rules of origin within the GAT principle of application of the rules of origin. [[on the development of the car industry]] After the transition period, the rules of origin are applied, under (a), (c) of Article 3 of the Agreement on Rules of Origin under the GAT "Guidelines for the Application of Rights, Definitions, Origin". The adoption of this law will facilitate the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in the field of automobilising in line with the U.S.U.S. regulations, taking into account the relevant obligations of the negotiating process. Dear National Deputies! You can see that it was substituted for the previous one. The bill, which took fully into account the position of our carbuilders, is that all visas are under this carbuilders law. And the main idea of this law is to give us the opportunity to have transitional periods that protect the internal manufacturer from the rules of open competition that WTO requires. That is, if we don't adopt this law, the car building since Ukraine's entry into SOT will have to face completely defenseless competition. So this is a request from the government, because it will strengthen our negotiating processes. Proposals. And there are requests from manufacturers, again, such as this agreed upon, and the government is asking for this bill to be adopted in the first reading and in general as fully agreed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u94	Thank you, too. The co - report invites the head of the committee’s subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship, Vitaly Ivanovich Mikeo.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u95	Mother, a Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, a faction of industrialists and entrepreneurs. The committee's decision was primary when we refused to adopt this law, but then, by taking the experts with the conclusion of the car industry, taking into account the changes that the government has made in this law and what Sergey Anatoliovich Teryohin has done today, we. The committee supports this law and requests it to adopt it in the first reading and, if possible, in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u96	Yes, thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Sign up for the board, please show me the names of the national MPs. Yuri Carmazin. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I mean, our work doesn't go in vain. Sergey Anatolyovich, didn't you first convince us that you should have taken it? Don't you now thank you for having achieved and improved the bill? Really? And you were nervous in your heart, annoyed by the Prime Minister, trampled your foot on Parliament, and said that he was not supporting her. And it turns out that it wasn't supported by Parliament, it wasn't supported by the Ukrainian people, because in Zaporozhye, 20,000 jobs were already being prepared to cut back after they made changes to the Budget Act. That's why. It turns out that each of us has a double mail. Instead of a maximum of 50 letters, 120 I receive today. It's because the government isn't what it's supposed to be. So I guess that's it. The fact that the bill was not supported for the first time and that the committee had been hampered by the inadequacy of the bill contributed to the fact that the bill was now finalized, that the definition of origin in article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Automotive Industry was now defined, where the criteria of operations for the production of cars and motorcycles provided for the production of a body of individual parts or nodes by a method of incomprehensible integration, which did not provide for their further separation without loss of high price characteristics, the painting of the body, the composition of individual elements, the production of the Tinning for the purchaser, and in fact a transitional period for us - 3 years. So this corresponds, in principle, to the treaty ratified by Ukraine back in 1994 between the Inter-European Society and we ratified the Law. And it suits national interests to a greater extent. Of course, I would not want to change the law at all. But we need to listen to each other and move forward to the wishes and countries with which we will work together. So, I think the next step of the government and the committee, I would ask, is to cancel the budget rules that prohibited the development of automotive industry, shipbuilding industry and aviation industry. They need to be removed and, as soon as we do so, the less damage will be caused by joint government and parliamentary actions that are influenced by emotion. Thank you, you can vote in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u98	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, respected radio listeners, dear compatriots. It was here that the country was mentioned, not as an ephemeral phenomenon, but, above all, as it relates to our people, but also to industrial and agricultural production. Hence, each bill should be considered from this perspective: it promotes, or does not promote, domestic production, both in industry and in rural areas. The production that we receive gives us daily food that we consume constantly. From this point of view, I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Automobile Development Act was adopted by us, just a year ago, on March 18, 2004, and we are now offered a series of changes. And now we're looking at a bill proposing to remove from the Ukrainian Automotive Development Act the criteria for determining the origin of cars, motorcycles, prefabricated products and spare parts. And that's exactly what's going to make it possible to cancel the tax benefits for companies that make cars out of these. Let's think of one simple thing with you. In case we accept this series of laws, one of them that touches the car building, we have already, well, the other part of the hall, approved. And if we pass this Law, let's do it for the government of capitalist ministers to tie the seed stakes that could be pushed into the symbolic grave of a car building. And this will be a very faithful definition of what the government of capitalist ministers is doing, which was created by orange President Yushchenko and capitalist Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u100	Victor Mironenko, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u101	Crimea, Mironenko, Ukrainian Company faction. Respectable members of the people, respected fellow countrymen, we see two approaches here. Both approaches are systemic. On the one hand, one approach involves joining the WTO, another approach is that of a Ukrainian company - it assumes that if we are to join the WTO, we are carefully preparing, hard standing up for our interests, not the way the Government and the President are doing it now, and most of the Supreme Council. The committee didn't support it at first, then supported it, I don't know, what were the motives? But I don't rule out what even motorists can convince. What methods? Breaking hands to do what needs to be done under various threats or hints. Note, as in privatization, we were told: let us implement reforms. That means universal privatization. What did you come to? Double-declining. And they keep telling us, let's keep going this way. It's like a man walking into the swamp, saying, "Go on, go on." And we are going beyond this cost of privatization, destroying the economy, reducing income in Gosbudget, local budgets. We're being told to join the WTO. Everyone understands that many industries will suffer. But they're telling us how Russia's gonna get in and we're gonna get in. It's crazy. And the other side will come in before we do. And here Russia enters, once again the image of the enemy is created in the face of Russia. And in this policy, very immoral policies, it is once again an opportunity to infiltrate the Supreme Council of the Government and so on, speaking of their patriotism, their false patriotism, I emphasize, we are being pushed into the WTO. Well, the outcome is clear. The company won't vote. And I am convinced that most will support these bills. Ukraine will enter the WTO without any real struggle for the interests of the domestic economy. Why, of course. In the Supreme Council, most entrepreneurs, large businessmen, oligarchs who will not express the interests of the people. But the President on whom he leans, the Government also supports the oligarchs who previously supported Kuchma, and now they are actually all practically supporting President Yushchenko, head of the Government of Timoshenko and so on. Which Government and which President is, of course, an oligarchic. For whose good is all this done? For the benefit of national oligarchs and foreigners. Will they fight there, compete, especially our national, foreign? But nothing they will find for themselves, they will make great money for themselves, but only the people will suffer. We are further and further affected by this capitalization swamp, from which people are destroying, prices are rising, tariffs are rising. A little raises your salary, your pension, they say, oh, as we've been doing you good. And some naive people believe that. Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u102	Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u103	John the Rabbit, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have been alert to what is done in Ukraine’s automobile and in the market for used cars. We remember very well how the changes to the State budget took place here, and thus, in fact, because of the sharp increase in excise collection, because of a momentary ban on imports into Ukraine of cars there for two or five years from the countries of the European Union. And that's a huge loss to the state budget. A billion! A billion dollars a year is going to be a huge loss. On the other pole, we have our own production. So what we're doing here in the Supreme Council is we need it to be aimed at supporting our own manufacturer. This must be the alpha and omega of our activity. But we see that our government and we in the Supreme Council are doing quite differently. I'm telling you, we didn't support those who connect environmentally sound cars from the countries of the European Union that provide these cars with normal safety, they're very high environmental requirements, they work at the level of these Euro-3 standards. But we've created such a tax regime to import VAZ's cars into Ukraine. In fact, cars that are technically safe do not withstand any criticism in terms of pollution. So I'd like us to start making arrangements here today. We need to correct those mistakes when driving cars from European Union countries, and we need to support our manufacturer and not transport those cars that do not meet today’s safety and environmental requirements. But when we talk about this bill today, I'm going to tell you that there's nothing we can figure out here, because in this case, the government didn't give us a table, a table where it would be clear that it's changing. So I don’t understand how I can prepare for such serious things. However, I see that there is an agreed position between the producers of our government, so on the first reading we need to adopt this bill. Mr. Carmazin says we should take the second one, but I'd like to say that we've prepared such bills much better than we are. Because if there are no tables, we can't compare the texts, it's very hard to keep the language. What are we talking about? The point is that 50 percent of the assembly remains and that this 50 percent of the assembly includes body painting or the other half? So, honourable national MPs, we have to make demands for the preparation of documents from the Cabinet of Ministers and our committees, and on the other hand, we have to get in the car building business and in the car trade. We need to start cars that are safe and environmentally clean in the Ukrainian market, so we need cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski, will you be speaking? Turn on the microphone. And then Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u105	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka’s block Dear colleagues, I really wanted to point out that the last version of this bill is slightly different from the previous one, and here, indeed, we should give the right position to the Supreme Council, which did not accept this bill burningly, but which allowed the government to improve it. I support this bill, I think we're going to vote for it. But I would just like to remind myself, and our voters that we should finally think about, those who live here in Ukraine and the government, and people, but above all government and power, what's been going on for how many years. Look at our neighbors, the Czechs, the handful of them there, look, they immediately took a very normal project, made a deal with Volkswagen. You see, today their Czech cars are actually reaching a European standard, they're in all of the post-Radians space today, much cheaper, more comfortable, more comfortable. We're still on this Nightingale, a four-wheeled bike covered only by a tin can on top. This is a very important question. We cannot continue to be ashamed of ourselves; such a vast country does not yet have its civilized European automobile. Drowned, in fact, a beautiful factory of a lion's bus, now we're buying something out there in the billows, and we're hauling it from abroad. Because of this, I'm obviously convinced that this law needs to be passed, it's very needed today, it's perfect. But we need to think about it and design a program, because a nation as big as us. And today it's completely out of control, let's say, of its automobile is just a disgrace and it might give us some suspicion of our intellectual even inadequacy. I'm sure it has to be done. And I have half a minute. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Your Honor, I specifically address you. I really liked it when you, by calling the same names in every bill, you're smiling. I like that very much. But let's put, well, how much longer we're going to be to clarify our rules! Well, you know, I, by the way, got up at five o'clock at the same time. At five o'clock we sign up for the show! It's right there in the daytime, let's see, it takes a few minutes to get back to normal writing at the end of the week. I think you'll go for it, Vladimir Mikhailovich, won't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u106	And even better, your honors: the discussion is over, more faithfully, the report on the question has ended -- they've signed up for the speech and everything, then it'll be simpler. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. I'm just asking you very briefly: we still have a lot of bills of responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u107	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are removing the shortage of government and parliament. The government is asking Parliament to help him negotiate with the WTO. It is a three - year delay in the introduction of the WTO criteria to mitigate the impact of the entry into the U.S.A. on Ukraine’s autobuilding, and it is generally a matter of mitigating Ukraine’s entry into the U.S. and other matters, but in particular, it is a three - year delay in the introduction of the STO criteria for cars. So I think we need to support this request from the government. This is the case when the government is doing the right thing. And this is in the interests of Ukraine and the interests of our car building. Actually, I'd like to put this in a broader context. It's all about protecting the internal market. We have a lot of liberals who think that it's just liberalisation and there can't be any protectionism at all. The art of economic policy is to combine liberalisation with reasonable protectionism, and in this case we should not take off the agenda of the day's protection of the internal market as if we were opening all the borders, liberalizing the market, and we're absolutely in the light of what's going to happen next. No country does that. This was not done by Poland, not even by the United States, which is constantly, even in its rude form, protecting national interests in the face of WTO, where they are and play a dominant role. So let us not become overly zealous. Yes, we need to go to the WTO, but we need to think about how to protect within the limits of rules and standards and the criteria of the WTO to protect our internal market. It is this bill that is working in this direction to enable our manufacturers to acquire engines in three years, liberalize the market, protect their market in some way, protect the internal market from imports of cars that are environmentally harmful, including a whole set of problems that will have to be solved in these three years. And the last. The main problem with getting into SOT is increasing the competitiveness of our production. And we need to focus on both government and.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Please mobilize. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, no matter what the committee proposes to reject, we should vote on the first proposal for acceptance as a basis. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Automobile Industry Act. [[about the cancellation of localization conditions]] Registration number 7569. [[12:47:18]] For 258. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! There's an offer to accept in general, that's a minister's proposal, it's supported. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! We'll take it next week, the law will be passed. Let us now make another decision, for God's sake. If you deny it, I can't offer it. The committee's proposal is to reject the bill, you listen to what he says. I'm reading, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, listen, I'm reading the document. Here's what's written in the document: reject. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Listen, you want to cancel meetings when there's a denial of a group of people. Well, well, let's face it, it's a technical question. I beg of you, dear fellows. If one man denies it, the whole faction denies it. The cry stands. Let's not lose our jobs. We'll take it next week. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mike's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u109	I want to emphasize that we have looked at this very seriously with the experts, and we have come to the conclusion that we need to support this decision, and that was a very detailed, very long-standing decision. As for those who deny and speak of the fate of the Ukrainian industry, I want to say, dear friends and Communists, what did you vote in the budget for? For the destruction of industry. Now what? Are you looking for a way to save her? Did you vote for the budget? That is where the main destruction of the Ukrainian industry is.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, wait, let's do it this way. So I would ask the distinguished Vitaly Mike either to form a committee decision, or not to give me a piece of paper that says black and white: reject. Dear colleagues, I can put it to a vote, but then the next question we can't consider. If it suits you-- let's do it, I can do it. [[B in m in s a l i.]] Okay. I ask you to calm down, Your Honor, please calm down. We're next in line for Bill 7586. The committee proposes, then the government proposes to include this bill in our agenda and allow us to work on it so that we can accept it as the Law next week, this project. So I'm voting on a proposal to include in the agenda a bill on the development and application of standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, registration number 7586. [[12:51:30]] For 228 The decision is taken, the bill is included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? It is proposed to consider now the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 7525, amending certain Ukrainian laws on single taxpayers under a simplified system of taxation. Dear colleagues, I would like to be very careful, you remember that we have adopted the appropriate Law, which is now under the signature of the President of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers is calling for a new bill to be made more precise in order to avoid budget failures. Please, the representative of President Sergey Sobolev. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u111	The honourable colleagues of the bill are in fact confirmed by a bill that, in due course, was passed by national deputies: Lapina, Guriiev, Onichuk, Mother, Burjak, Homutinnik, Carmazin. The only rule missing in the previous bill is how those on the simplified tax system should pay contributions to the funds in the first quarter of 2005, when the Act has not yet been in force. In addition, when considering the previous bill, the bill was discussed along with other bills relating to both insurance systems and many other issues. That is why there is a request to include this bill in the agenda so that it can be considered and corrected by the inadequacies that are currently in the previous bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I beg you, let's make an effective decision. Please sign up for three minutes. And we need to make a decision. We signed up, and again Sergey Sobolev. Will you no longer perform? Lapina, please. Xenia Leapina, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u113	Dear fellow national MPs, we ask you very much to support this bill, because it depends on it for about a million jobs in Ukraine. And the urgency of this bill is that if we do not now make a clear and balanced decision with you, literally tomorrow 100,000 small business entities will lose the opportunity to use the simplified system. This is extremely urgent and extremely difficult. I'd like to support you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u114	Mironenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u115	Please pass on the word of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u116	Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u117	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. In this room we have seen many things - and violations of the Rules and violations of the Constitution, laws - but we have not seen them before. There is no law, the President has not yet signed it, and it is now proposed to amend it. It's a breach of common sense. In order not to be accused of torpedoing the implementation of this law, I would like to remind everyone that the Communist faction has supported this law, we are in favour of a simplified procedure, and we will indeed support that law as soon as possible. So let's let the President sign it, it'll come into force, people will start working, and we'll make this right. But such a violation of the Rules and Laws cannot be allowed, as it is now proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u118	Sergey Matvienkov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u119	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, I would like us to calm down a little now and think. Right now, we're running somewhere, we're making noise, we're yelling, SOT, we're coming in. Let's think about, well, today we're in WTO. Well, they took us there. Well, what did we get out of it? Well, we'll open borders now. But it's not just benefits. We have to understand very well that today we have to bring Chinese textiles, Polish food. Can we stand it today, can we be competitive with our machinery, with our steel industry, are we all or aren't we? Same thing, let's say, for entrepreneurs, the law that we're considering. I don't understand, honestly. Let us first create all the conditions for them to be able to work properly, to be competitive. We, on the one hand, seem to be working with our manufacturer, but on the other hand, we beat him incomprehensibly below the belt. In the end, let's put the product in place, let's put the economy ahead of us to say "tele" and let's move around as the world moves and protect its own producer. Nor does anyone say that joining the WTO is an anti-dumping act of the United States. You say, the Government, honestly, that the United States anti-dumping legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u120	Master instead of Razwadowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u121	Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I understand that a certain error has been made regarding precisely such a painful subject as simplifications and subjects of entrepreneurial activity. But let's think again about what we're doing right now: whether we're going to include or not to get into the agenda of this bill. Remember how it was like, "Let's criticize the classics without reading their works"? Let us not criticize this law before we have yet placed it in the order of the day. My position is clear and clear: let's put it in the agenda. And here, on the rostrum, not just outside the hall, but in the rostrum, we're going to find out what the essence of this bill is. I suggest we turn it on now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u122	Thank you. Mikola Sidorenko. And we'll figure it out. Then we'll ask the minister to explain the bill to us. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u123	Please give the floor to the MP, Mr. Manchulenko George.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u124	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u125	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Ukrainian National Party Dear colleagues, well, we need to look at what these changes relate, first of all, to old-age legislation or to a law that has been passed but has not yet been signed. These changes are precisely about introducing them into the current legislation today, which is already in force, signed by the President, who has gained power. So let's distinguish all of these things, and not just go all the way out into one pile, so there's no positive solution. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party supports the consideration of the bill and urges its colleagues to vote positively too, because it will benefit our dealer and our entrepreneurs. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u126	Yes, Minister, please, who? Pinzenic? Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Well, we're in the process of dealing with the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u127	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! First of all, it's about changes to an active law that works, signed. is valid. Second, it's about clarifying some of the norms that apply to the simplified system that Sergey Sobolev was talking about. So the law doesn't affect the simplified system norm, but it settles the first quarter issue. But it takes away the problems that arose when two bills were put together that had nothing to do with the simplified system. Request from the government, to include this law in the agenda, to consider, to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u128	Come on, dear fellows, we've discussed this, I'll put the vote to the vote for inclusion in the agenda, then we'll continue to define. Dear colleagues, let the session room be defined, you've discussed everything. I'm voting on the inclusion of Bill 7525 in the agenda. [[13:00:55]] For 210 Dear colleagues, let's go to the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 76. The Communist faction is 0. "Ukraine" is 0. People's Party is 25. Julia Tymoshenko’s 32 block. C.O.R. - 1. UNODC - 23. SDPU(o)-0. "Democratic Ukraine" is 0. "The only Ukraine" is 18. SPT - 11. "Democratic Initiatives" is 10. Postfaction is 14. Here, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, how to smile here. We move on to different ways and smile. Different, please put your name on the board. I would like you, my dear colleagues, to sign up for the various performances. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Andrew Polit. We've got an hour of time, dear fellows, for this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u129	Andrei Polit, faction of the Company, Leninski Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! This year has coincided with the fact that 26 June, i.e. the day after tomorrow, will mark two momentous days: the Youth Day and the 86th anniversary since the founding of the Lenin Commsomol of Ukraine. And that's very symbolic. Komsomol has been and remains a mass youth organization that raises young people on the principles of internationalism, love for the Family, history, peace and humanism. As we celebrate Youth Day and Komsomol's birthday, we stress the important role played by young people in society, for young people are the future and the present Ukraine. The attention given by the State to young people depends on the continued life of our society and country. We, the people's deputies, must do everything to ensure that young people have equal opportunities in education, in the first place, in recreation, in sports and in creativity, all that cannot be done without the harmonious development of the individual. The Supreme Council's decision on the 85th anniversary of LCSMU and the strengthening of the role of youth social organizations in the educational work with young people last year emphasized the need to increase the work of youth groups in youth employment, the organization of active recreation and the education of young people in the best quality of their country's citizens. The Lenin Commodore of Ukraine, as a youth social organization, has been systematically working on these problems. The latest all-Ukrainian actions of LCSMU “Ally Tapes”, “Day of Remembrance” and “Truth Verdict Against Lies” on the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory had a great deal of positive resonance among young people and people in various regions of Ukraine. Tens of thousands of alkaline bands on the main streets and squares of various cities symbolized a fraction of the mark of the Great Victory. During the "Day of Remembrance" campaign, the communists placed in order dozens of tombs of Soviet liberator soldiers, as well as parks and squares bearing the names of heroes. The Truth Against Lies campaign reminded young people once again of the problem of distorting the history of our Family and, above all, modern Ukrainian textbooks for universities and schools. Today, when Odessa is once again trying to crush history, to remove from the face of the city a splinter called Lenin Commsomol, the streets and square of the city are being renamed again, the Komsomol told his determined “no” attempts at the vandalism of a bright anti-communist Gurvica and his company. We will not continue to go past lies and hypocrisy, subjugation and the darkness of the authorities. In this we see the main task of our organization, proudly named Vladimir Ilyich Lenin. Allow me to congratulate all young people on Youth Day, as well as on the 86th anniversary of the Lenin Commsomol of Ukraine and to wish success in education, work and all our endeavours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u130	Yes, Igor Yukhnowsky, faction of our Ukraine. Anatoly's frost conveys the word Noshenko Mikola, to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! On June 14, a round table was held, organized by a temporary special commission of the future and an international centre of forward-looking research on public policy, supporting investment in high technology. On June 15, there was a meeting of the Committee on Science and Education, dedicated to the executive decision of the Supreme Council on the development of innovative activities. As a result of extensive discussions, the nation's most important subjects for strategic and ongoing activities are both legislative and executive, and the nation's universal top priorities now include energy saving and energy conservation, nation health and the creation of conditions for high-tech investment, such as the development of Ukraine's information system. So energy savings are primarily related to metallurgy, agriculture, and energy. We cannot allow the existence of an extremely large number of domain ovens to continue, unless we continue to have a huge number of 70 martens, and we have a very strong reduction in these facilities. These plants are very energetic and very low-productive. With regard to the development of high-tech technologies. Budget money is now being allocated, and the possibility is being drawn up for the first practical implementation of the information link between Ukraine and the European Information System. The creation of an independent fibre network with a high-power academic network of 10 gigabits per second and its connection to the European academic system of electronic communications. Ukraine receives access to European scientific programs and thus receives the appropriate funds and appropriate participation in the implementation of these programmes. Increasing the level of technical and natural discipline as well as English in colleges and schools is also one of the most important tasks of State innovation. We need to make specific use of the President's speech at the United States Congress on the annual scholarships for 2,000 students to send them to the United States of America to an institution where the information product and information systems are studied and implemented. And at the end of the day, creating conditions for young specialists in Ukraine. Investment in education and the situation of young people is the third most important part of our activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Mikola Nightshank, Democratic Ukraine. Prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u133	Nightshenko, 160 constituency, Sumstina, Volodymyr Litvina People's Party. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The use of this highest parliamentary rostrum has forced me to appeal, the orders of my voters from questions, maybe they're not as general, global as they said before me, but they directly affect the most important factor in every Ukrainian family is its well-being. I have two appeals in my hands to voters who are complaining of unjustifiablely low milk prices, to milk purchased from the population by various commercial structures. For example, I'm holding protocol number one for price agreement, DP "Russia." Well, it's a non-state enterprise, it's probably a subsidiary, but the residents, my voters say they didn't see it in their eyes: who agreed with the price that today is 80 per liter of milk. At the same time, we all know the price of milk on the counters, on the market. The second address to me is the Chernobyl Village Council of the Nedrigail Region, which I quote literally: "The Prime Minister of Ukraine Timoshenko said at the U.S. Selectorial Council, the purchase price during the summer period should be at least 1 bracelet 20 copies, and in the winter 1st bracelet 70 copies." Julia Volodymyrna, if such words were spoken, today the government must adjust the price, it is not a surplus of milk, it is a real source of Ukrainian peasant existence. The law that we passed here, by the way, was government law on milk and dairy products, and it provided for regulation of the milk market. And the next thing I know, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, I've got, Thus, Minister Dimczak’s responsibilities tell me that the situation is at 7.06 in Rose. distributed 1 billion 100 million out of 1 billion 700. The question is: Where are the 546 million? When will you share them, Your Honor? I ask you to consider my speech as a re-examination to the officials and to consider it as a matter of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u134	Yes. Thank you, Vladimir Puzakov Bondarchuku. Please, Bondarchuk. The dry one gives Konovaluku, prepare for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u135	Bondarchuk, Communist faction. Honourable deputies and radio listeners, as well as the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Minister of the Interior. Currently, there are about a million square metres of housing per year in Kiev. In fact, it's all paid and it's worth a lot of money. Therefore, the owners of these new houses are becoming rich from all over Ukraine. Here they receive their tenth or twentieth apartment, and 140000 simple kiewlas continue to stand on the floor of the apartment. This injustice in housing is due to the return to capitalism of only one part. The other is the enormous inconvenience that a construction boom is causing for the kiwis. The distraught officials, the deputies of the Kiev Council, today, cutting up the land for new construction anywhere, only pay. As a result, the squares, the playgrounds, are disappearing, all the space between the homes is lost. There are huge boilers in their place, and then there are monsters growing up who cover up all over the sky and threaten to tear down nearby dwellings. It is clear that this building block is being protested by the Kievites. They block construction sites, burn fences there, break construction equipment, cover the streets, and so on. They require a moratorium on the construction of new housing and new auto-fuels in Kiev until all Kiev principles are in place. That's right. First. Mandatory harmonization of construction plans with locals. Second. Prohibition of the destruction of squares, playgrounds and sports grounds. Third. On the side of the salary, free accommodation must also be built for regulars. At the request of the Kievlians, I request the Office of the Prosecutor-General to verify the legality of the allocation of land for construction, which is caused by the mass protests of the Kievlians. I'll only bring the most conflicted building sites in Kiev. In other cities, the same is true in Harikov, and in Lviv today the cemetery is a betrayal of interests, of the national interests of Ukraine. By Kiev. Valley area, Prospect of Truth, 80-82. They're destroying the square and they want to build a 24-story house. The post office area in front of the funicular. Everyone knows Podol is the face of Kiev. This is where this slope is now being built and the 7th floor office building is being built. Cave area. The Klovski descent,6 children's playgrounds, are built with multiple floors. The Shrine district. Chernobyl, 11th. The home territory, the square and partly the school stadium are occupied. It's right-wing. This is the intersection of the streets of Majakovsky and Kastan. The square is being destroyed. Dnieprovsky. 59 Radovna Street. The boarding school took away the school garden and the stadium. Skalski Street, 14b. In an overcrowded neighborhood, a high-rise house is built on the site of the children’s playground. Darnicki Boulevard, for Child Peace. They're pushing the 22nd floor candle. Apartment on Town Street, 38 and 40. And other cases. Please consider my statement as a deputy request.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u136	The dry one conveys the word of Konovaluku. Prepare Tkalenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u137	Respectable radios, respected voters. The policies of total lies, populism, demagogies have led to destructive processes in the economy, a significant decline in the standard of living of people. We are witnessing that every day in our country has negative consequences that affect our lives with you. Gas crisis, fuel crisis, rising prices of housing and utilities, transport, sugar shortages, rising sugar prices and rising food prices. All of this is actually having a negative impact on our living conditions with you. Political persecution and repression are becoming the norm that distracts the public from the growing problems in Ukraine. We are witnessing that today's economic growth is declining by 2.5-3 times. Businesses, productions are left behind. Unemployment is on the rise today and the social problems of the people are on the rise. How can we find the answer to all these problems? The Labour Ukraine political party holds public hearings tomorrow. with the theme "The Dialogue for the Future." We will present the country's development strategy for five years, and we will present an economic programme that will clearly demonstrate and show the way of development of a State that will enable every Ukrainian to improve his or her well-being and improve his or her standard of living. The social budget for economic growth will also be presented for five years and will also demonstrate how we can address socio-economic problems as soon as possible. How will the budget affect your daily life, reform, improvement and medicine, and education, and housing and utility? I think that such a dialogue will allow us to concentrate all our efforts with you so that Ukrainians, truly hardworking, gifted, educated people, can influence their lives in practice. We witnessed another cynicism when an attempt was made to restore the simplified tax system law in Parliament. I think the authors of this policy are well-known. This is, above all, a new government, a new power. Who will answer for the fact that 19,000 in six months have already been eliminated in Ukraine? enterprises? Who will answer for the fact that Ukrainians who have been able to do their job are able to provide for their families in their own strength? Dear friends! I call for the unification of all social and political forces to achieve development and well-being. I am sure that it is the labour Ukraine, united today, that is capable of protecting itself from the arbitrary situation that is taking place today in the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u138	Tkalenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u139	Alexander Tkalenko, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of Our Ukraine, Hersonian. Honourable MPs, honourable voters, I am authorized to publish a statement by the party group of the Ukrainian People's Movement of the faction "Our Ukraine" in connection with Russian media statements by some Russian politicians. Last week Russian media released the opinion of State Duma deputy director of the Institute of SND countries, Constantine Zatulin, on the situation surrounding the temporary stay of the Russian Federation fleet in Ukraine. Without reference to the sources of information in his interview with the Russian agency "Ria-news" he literally stated that the Ukrainian authorities had given their intelligence services instructions to provoke the situation with Russian military personnel in Sevastopol for the purpose of compromising them, to launch an informational attack that would eventually lead to the review of the Black Sea fleet agreements. In connection with such statements by a well - known politician, I would like to point out the following. It is known that the situation surrounding the presence of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in the territory of our country is far from ideal. And this is largely due to the fact that the Black Sea Fleet does not always properly comply with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation and basic agreements under the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation or actually compromise itself in the eyes of the world public. Thus, similar statements regarding the use of Ukrainian special forces to compromise Russian military personnel are no different than attempts to win the true state of affairs around the temporary stay of the Black Sea Russian Federation fleet in the territory of our state and to transfer the responsibility for failure to execute basic treaties to the Ukrainian side. It is also surprising that the information provided by Mr. Zatulin about the basic provisions of the basic agreements, according to which the Russian side has undertaken to comply with Ukraine’s legislation, respect for its sovereignty, and avoid interference with the Interior. The Ukrainian side, for its part, has made a commitment not to ask questions about the cessation of operations and agreements by 2017 regarding the presence of the Black Sea Fleet in our territory, and will abide by them. There is also a logical question about the sources that provide Mr. Zatulin with such, with the permission to say, the information that the honourable MP of the State of Russia should have reported. We believe that similar public insinuations by the representatives of the Russian political community are a resurgence of outdated imperial practices, interference with the internal affairs of the Ukrainian state. Nor do they promote an equal, good-neighbourly relationship and cooperation among our peoples. We are now initiating a parliamentary commission to investigate compliance with basic agreements, because the last problems that arise are that the crew of the Black Sea Fleet refused to comply with the decision of the Sevastopol Master Court on transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u140	Yes, please, I'll give you one minute. There'll be two left. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u141	In connection with the refusal of the Black Sea Command, implement the decisions of the Sevastopol Master’s Court regarding the transfer of hydrographic objects. We hope that such a parliamentary interim treaty follow-up commission will also contribute to the signing of other agreements provided for in the basic documents that deal with such issues. There are a lot of unresolved issues up until now that are causing serious problems, including with regard to Russian-Ukrainian relations. We therefore look forward to the constructive work of our Parliament and to helping to solve and solve these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u142	Stephen Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian National Party. Matthew gives the word. Get ready, motherfucker.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u143	Cloud, faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The Orange Revolution, expressing the will of the Ukrainian society, has put an end to the new government -- to the epidemic of corruption, organized crime and punishment, first and foremost, of the organizers of forging the President's election and violating the rule of law. Unfortunately, the law enforcement agencies are somehow, we'll expect -- for the time being, they're bypassing the main figures of these shameful actions. In the context of what I'm saying, I'm asking the Attorney General of Ukraine and the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, here's what I'm talking about. The responsibility of the former head of Kivalov’s KVK has not yet been called into question. I want to draw the attention of law enforcement agencies to some of the facts of Kiwalov's fraud and corruption and his supporters. Kiwalov organizations with questionable activity "Vyat Femid" and the International Humanitarian University, where Kiwalov stands for the president, having received a rental on the street of Khreshtick,24 at a price a hundred times lower than the actual, fraud route, with the participation of former officials of the President's Administration, the SBA and the State Enterprise "Criforming" were equipped and connected to a government specialty, ATS-100, under the false pretext that they were allegedly rented premises of the Central Electoral Commission, although they had never had anything to do with KVC. In this regard, the new management of the State Enterprise, Krestatik, of the tenant to the Attorney General's Office, has given rise to a strange reaction. The appeal was sent to the prosecutor’s office in Kiev and from there to the prosecutor’s office in Shevchenkov district, where Neciporenko, the brother - in - law of Kiwalova, works as a reprocurator. Accordingly, his efforts were directed toward reconciliation of truth seekers and justice. They say they don't have information about Vivat, femida and the International Humanitarian University. I wonder who she should have. This was when the SBA granted permission to establish a government specialty. I appeal to the Attorney General's Office to investigate the case objectively without excluding the liability of the fraud, "Pedrachia" Sergey Kiwalova. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u144	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction. He'll be followed by Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u145	Fucking Communist faction. Today, I have made a parliamentary request on behalf of the head of the Ukrainian government, Timoshenko, for failure by the local authorities of Cherkasa to comply with the demands of the June 1, 2005, protest against rising housing tariffs, utilities, and food. At the request of the participants of the rally, which took place on June 21st, when I control the implementation of this decision, I bring this resolution to the electorate, to you, to the MPs. On June 1, 2001, an action protested by citizens of Cherkasa against rising housing and utilities tariffs. The requirements of the resolution of the protest rally were addressed to the head of the Cerkas District Council of Kapralov, the head of the Czerku State, the city’s head Voloshtyn. But the answers. No protests have been received so far, although the resolution does specify a specific date. No commission has been set up to study the issue of the economic justification for raising tariffs. For the executive's decision. The decision of the Executive Committee of the Council of Cherkas since 4 March 2005 No. 320 on the increase in housing tariffs and municipal services has not been suspended. As a result, the protesters made their decision. First. Express distrust to the head of the Cerkas District Council of Corporal, the head of the Czerwka District State Administration, the city head of Cherkas Wolosin in connection with their violation of the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Appeal, which did not respond to the protest organizers and did not take action to comply with the requirements of the protest resolution of June 1. To the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko, Head of the Supreme Council, on the question of the appropriateness of the whereabouts of Kapralov, Chervek, Hair in the positions they hold. Ask the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Piscoun, to open criminal cases against Ukrainian violators of the Civil Appeal Act on non-response and enforcement of the resolution on June 1, 2005. In view of the failure to implement the protest resolution of June 1, 2005, participants in the protest rally were forced to move on to more decisive action, which spurred the local authorities' inaction and blocked the Cherkasi-Kyiv highway for half an hour. I think it condemns power today not only in places but also central. And the second question. This is about the annulment of the Supreme Council Order on the decision of the Lviv City Council following the completion of the Polish military funerals in 1918-1919 in Lviv. It's a disgrace. We made that decision, but it was canceled yesterday. And today, as a result, June 24th in Lviv.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u146	Taras Cranville, faction of "Ukraine". Follow him. Passes to the school, prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u147	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues and our radio listeners! I would like to briefly, in such a way, only to touch on the subject that today’s authorities are trying to represent as a zone of their special achievements. Having given up on what can be achieved in internal politics and in the economy, they're trying to substantiate what we have in foreign policy is wonderful. Let's take a little look at this foreign policy. You know, there's a flugger's policy, and I think this flugger of ours is going not even back to where the wind is blowing, but to where the smoky plank is going to go, where this flyer is set on this power peak: Fish, Tarasyuk - just Europe; Dusty - it's just the direction Russia is oriented, and Yushchenko says to each other, "You're right, it's the right direction. You know, I'm in an old Jewish anecdotes about a rabbi who used to say, "You're right." When someone pointed out to him that how can both be right, they say the opposite? And you're right. Now that Americans and Russians are going straight to Yushchenko and they say, "How can that be?" He says, "We're all here, we're there, we're here." We find ourselves in love with democracy in a European, American model, as we then understand the explanation that the orange revolution was inspired by the ideas of the leftist mosque, which is a fierce enemy, let's say, of the American understanding of democracy? Quite the opposite, the position regarding Poland, which was just spoken of by the previous reporter as a factor of shame. And when I do, I have a right to say it, because I strongly advocated that this memorial should still be open so that we could go to some concessions in Poland. But when certain fundamental norms of national and national pride are ignored and there is a factor to the same brutal pressure on the Lviv City Council that Kuchma once tried to make on the same issue, because you see I didn't agree with Kwasniewski, it's embarrassing. Our relationship with Russia. It's hard for me to suspect that I'm a pro-Russian politician, and I can tell the Russian MPs of the State Word, but with a stupid tongue, you can do so much damage and eventually get to a level of falling relationships that makes the launch site much worse. The anti-Russia statements, the statements of our European integration, which is really nothing, because there's no one waiting for us there, turned out that today we need to start in that direction from a much worse position, to reestablish relations with Russia than they were during the period of government of Viktor Yanukovich, when we were able to stand back in the gas-transport consortium, in the EP, Ukraine's very national interests, not what Kuchma has put into certain of his negotiations, where the national interests have really been given. Where was Jackson-Venict's amendment today, which was scheduled to be annulled in the 91st year since the creation of the Ukrainian State? Where is the market status of the Ukrainian economy? But there will never be and never will be Ukraine in the EES. And today's story on the WTO, it's particularly showy. Do you have any idea that laws like the one we're adopting will be passed by Russia, China, or any other country that wants to enter the WTO with dignity? But the national position of the Ukrainian State seems to be that we enter it lying. But let's think about it a little bit, a complete failure in foreign policy, where there was a chance, where there were wonderful starting conditions. Is there anything this authority thinks of doing for its people, for this nation?
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u148	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Phydenko gives the word Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u149	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Of course, I would like to remind you of one thing from this rostrum. June 30th, 1941 -- June 30th for the Ukrainians -- it's such a very important day, a milestone day. It was an act of restoration of the independence of the Ukrainian State. I want to stress that this was a step, one of the steps, towards a modern Ukrainian state, towards an independent Ukraine. And I'd like all those who believe, first of all, themselves, because you won't convince others that this was done under the leadership, or in someone's contract, then all those who declared the act of independence were later transferred to Buchenwald and were punished at Buchenwald. So the Germans clearly identified who were the enemies and who were the accomplices. Associates then fled to both sides, and the enemies of Germany and those who were always on the watch for national interests were punished by the Germans. But I would like to point out another. The discovery of the Orlate cemetery in Lviv has been completed. I wouldn't want to enter here in periphery and discussion about whether or not the Supreme Council did the right thing. I would like to point out that, in the first place, those with their eyes closed, without documents, regardless of what they say, places without the consent of architectural buildings, agreed to restore this memorial and to return to it. Who was that? It was Kuchma, the former leadership of the city of Lviv, sadly. And it's been going on for many years since then, and the main thing is, frankly, not even what's written, but what's built. All those who were not there, and most of those who were to enter into this discussion, were not there. But you go and see what's built there. Then you will realize that there is no point in arguing over what is written there. And this is primarily the wine and I will highlight the guilt of the past leadership of the Ukrainian state. They were never Ukrainians by belief; they cared for both Ukraine and the whole state and all those living in it. I'm focusing on another one. Very many Ukrainian burials are scattered around the world. And here we need to learn how to rebuild them. And right now, this Sunday, the Ukrainian delegation goes to the village of Pikulichi, it's not far from the Premydl. All those who care so much, all those who care about the fate of Ukrainian burials, I urge, join, join. If you cannot go alone, donate funds, and encourage the Ukrainian State to care for the graves of those who have died for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u150	Phydenko gave the word to John Mihovich. Get Puck ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u151	Thank you. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Dear voters, in the same beautiful June days 60 years ago, an agreement was signed in Moscow after the Soviet-Czechoslovak talks to unify the Podkarpathian Russia and Zacarpathian Ukraine in the only Ukrainian Socialist State. This event is historic and instructive. We welcome all the compatriots on the occasion of such a legal act, which has culminated in a lengthy process of gathering mainly Ukrainian lands. Individual words to my countrymen. Our ancestors had not been in subjection to foreigners for centuries, were eager to join the Slavs in the East, and were led by Communists and other progressive forces fighting for their honor and freedom. We remember that it was made possible by the liberation of the Red Army from Hungarian - German invaders. That's why Zacarpatha is so popularly honored by liberator soldiers, keeping the memory of fallen heroes. On the day of the Jubilee, we also owe thousands of former teachers, doctors, engineers, representatives of other peaceful professions who, in the early postwar years, at the call of the heart from the East, arrived in our area, helped to create a new socialist being. I deeply feel for the countrymen for losing their achievements after the 1991 counter - revolutionary coup, again under the pressure of a capitalist brutal reality. The real patriots of Ukraine are outraged by the actions of today’s powerful, disintegrating country, which has been so difficult to choose and built by Soviets who are now in ruins and convulsions. Today, foreign soldiers are again marching in Lviv. This demeans our national pride, calls for vigilance. The day before the bourgeois Constitution, we Communists emphasize and demand that workers need real sovereignty and the country’s independence, real rights and freedoms that are worthy of living conditions. This is possible only on socialist grounds. Therefore, may history and today add to you, oppressed and humiliated fellow countrymen, wisdom, faith, and inspiration in the struggle for the realization of their vital interests. With the next celebration, you dear countrymen, brothers and sisters all over our country. Carnation is and was an integral part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u152	Vladimir Park, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Komara.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u153	Our Ukraine faction, Victor Yushchenka block, Vladimir Park. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV audiences, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in which the inhabitants of Makarios number one came after the elimination of a military facility designed to store high - tech weapons. A secret and prosperous Soviet-era military facility and a small town since the 1990s have become a kind of alienation zone. People in the town are on the verge of survival and are virtually isolated from the outside world. They are even registered, not at a place of residence, but within a hundred kilometers of the Kyiv-Svetoshin region of the Kyiv region. A powerful industrial complex, which is very easy to use for peaceful purposes, is highly equipped warehouses, boxes, shops, transportation connections, even a children’s rest camp, in a beautiful place, located, laid down and destroyed. And people don't have jobs. Social infrastructure, transportation, a series of social and household problems have been accumulated that have turned the town’s inhabitants into captives of unthinkable and unprofitable public policy. Weapons have been destroyed, but that doesn't mean that we have to destroy the precious infrastructure that has been acquired by generations and ultimately human destiny. It is evident that 50 apartments in the town are free, and people have fled from the town, but not everyone has a place to go. Today, there are three thousand people living in the town, of whom about 400 are retired and over 500 are children, the majority of whom are black people. However, there is no health care for the civilian population. Not only does the town not have the status of an administrative unit, it's not even on the map, although the problem of the inhabitants has not disappeared. It is sad to hear from people that the popular electorate in their election tours made promises to the townspeople and then went into this hall to forget about the town. Unfortunately, they are still sitting in this cozy hall, and people are disappointed and depressed in a half - time town in the deaf forest. As a confidant of our President Victor Yushchenk, it was very difficult for me to explain to these people that a new power would come and this work would be better done. But I was also wrong about how many MPs I've been asking at different institutions, the Ministry of Defence and local self-government, and I don't have an answer for today. That's why I'm addressing the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u154	Thank you. Mikola Komar, faction of "Ukraine" Vasuk gives the word to Shersun.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u155	It's a faction of the Ukraine, the Komar Mikola. Dear colleagues, at present there are nearly three dozen dead souls left in the Supreme Council, fellow deputies, which is one of the facts that dishonors today’s authority. Because as soon as the new government was approved, Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko promised that the next day, new government officials would be appointed. Similar promises were made by President Yushchenko. However, it has been shown that the words of the Heads of State are not always confirmed by action. Time is running out, and the number of accomplices is shrinking very slowly. Articles of the Constitution, the Law on State Service, the Law on Corruption continue to be violated. Repeated attempts by the Rules Committee have failed. In this situation, the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council did what he had to do: put the accomplices to trial. However, the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" raises doubts as to Ukraine's ability to deal with all, without exception, violations of the law, which are covered by parliamentary mandates. The stubborn seat of tens of adherents of today’s power on two chairs can only be explained by the understanding that today’s government is a very temporary government. Is it true, gentlemen, that you do not believe so much in your ability as government officials, that you are forced to insure your future by clinging to the MP's mandate and defying the law?Oh, my God! Is all the strictness of the law applied only to opposition in the European Orange Ukraine? The "Ukrainen Region" faction calls on members of the co-conspirator parliament not to be like the old authorities you hated so much. Who, if not you, can show an example of the pattern of law enforcement, even of those you do not like? Do not subdue the President and the Prime Minister, give the MPs, and succeed in the executive branch. The faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" states that the presence in the walls of the Supreme Council of dozens of accomplices forces people to finally be disappointed in their authority yesterday. Under real life pressure, more and more Ukrainian citizens reject the lie of orange ideologists and begin to realize that the interests of their own pockets or careers for the former suburban godparents are much closer than respect for the law and the people they call "their own". The "Ukrainen Region" faction calls on citizens and all the healthy political forces not to lower social pressure on their accomplices. Only then will they be forced to hear us and to exercise parliamentary authority. The faction also calls on the President and the head of government to intervene and put an end to the violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u156	Thank you. Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Two minutes after him, Pożynov gave up, to get ready, Ziszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u157	Mikola Shershun, Lithuanian People’s Party Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dearly beloved, our radio listeners! On the eve of a youth holiday, I want to raise one important problem. It is primarily related to the irresponsibility of individual officials of the Cabinet of Ministers. The thing is, every year, the government's policy is to allocate funds for the recovery of socially vulnerable children, for the mere children of orphans, for half orphans, for orphans with living parents, for example, for the care of boarding school children. This year, about 10 million dollars were placed in the State budget for this. It was a long time ago when the budget was accepted. But until recently, no regional official was able to find out about the amount allocated to the area or the deadlines for their arrival. It seems that funding for recovery is kept by officials in Kiev as a state secret. At this time, the Internet needs to be healed by poor local budgets. For example, in the Plains, one single facility has been rehabilitated by 2 changes in 190 children there. Summer was on fire, and the corresponding distribution order was only a few days ago, and of course there is still no money. And there's a dilemma before the local authorities -- putting the kids back on the Internet, or they're going to continue to heal, because the capital funds will come. I understand there's not enough money. But, Your Honor, if you've declared "Meet the people," you have to go all the way and build priorities. There are places where money is needed today, not tomorrow. And the healing of those deprived by fate and by the people of the children of the boarding school is exactly the first priority. So I'm asking you to speed up the process of cost recovery for children from residential institutions and make the distribution process transparent and accessible to regions. Otherwise, it is impossible to plan a healthy job on the spot. As a result, children are suffering, young ones whose festival in Ukraine will be celebrated on Sunday. Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome on behalf of the faction of the People's Party the celebration of all the young people of our nation. To warmly welcome the graduates of 2005 with the completion of their studies, to wish them a successful start in their own lives, success in the realization of plans and dreams, and to teachers the life force and inspiration for new generous sowings and snacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u158	There's only two minutes left from Zhižko Sergey. Prepare Vladimir the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u159	Sergey Zizko, faction of our Ukraine. Deputies! Dear radio listeners! On June 22, 1941, the most dramatic and most bloody period of World War II began. Armed opposition between totalitarian empires - Nazi Germany - and Communist Russia. The main theatre of the war was the territory of Ukraine, so none of the nations suffered such losses in World War II as the Ukrainian people. According to current estimates, Ukraine lost more than 10 million of its population as a result of the war. Predicting the imminentity of this war, Ukrainian patriots expected that it could result in the creation of premeditations to the independence of our state. A bright page in the history of the Ukrainian nation was the proclamation of the Ukrainian State's attitude and the creation of Ukrainian government in charge of Jaroslav Steck on June 30, 1941, in Lviv. In Act 30 June he pursued several tasks, first of all, he demonstrated the will of the world to create his own state, as well as the events of that time connected with the liberation period of 1917-1921. On the other hand, he forced the German invaders to show their true attitude toward the Ukrainian state. It should be recalled that the Nazis did not hesitate to answer. Within a few days, leading U.N. officials, including Stephen Bandera and Jaroslav Stecko, were arrested and sent to concentration camps until 1944. Thousands of Ukrainian patriots were also arrested in Galicina and Volina and members of the derivative groups at Podniprov. In fact, he was tortured in the Gestapo’s shadow of the city of Lviv John Klimov, the legend of the then Levite. Act 30 of June was a deliberate act of sacrifice. Similarly, the heroic struggle of the Ukrainian rebel army was a willful act of sacrifice, which handed over the estephet’s struggle for independence to the next generation of Ukrainians. So let us remember and honor these events on June 30, 1941. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u160	Vladimir Hare. Prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u161	A statement by the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. On June 16, 2005, senior officials of the State signed a memorandum on the guarantees of property rights and the lawfulness of their implementation. Our faction generally welcomes the authorities ’ intentions to resolve problems that undoubtedly cause great damage to Ukraine’s economy, seriously exacerbating the investment climate. The faction, however, emphasizes. The problems noted are precisely as a result of the activities of today's government, directly the government and the President of Ukraine, as a result of the implementation of the popular popular slogans that were well-spoken during the presidential election campaign. As the practice has shown, blind, unwarranted desire at any cost to implement the revolutionary idea of reprivatization is detrimental to Ukraine. The signing of the memorandum is seen as an added fact that the authorities have finally realized the wrongness of their own privatisation course. And so the signed memorandum is, firstly, an attempt together with the World Economic Forum in Kiev to stop criticism of the political and economic situation in Ukraine by foreign experts and politicians, former supporters of the orange revolution. The other one. This is an attempt to transfer the state's responsibility to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. It's an attempt to signal the outside world in order to take down the problem of folding investment projects in Ukraine, but not as a signal to an internal investor. The latter has suggested wise government decisions that are contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the 41st article of which expressly states that the compulsory alienation of property objects can only be applied on the basis and order established by law and subject to the prior and full compensation of their value. Forced alienation is permitted only under conditions of war and state of emergency. Comments are said to be unnecessary. That's why we believe that the memorandum is essentially a well-intentioned written rules of the Constitution of Ukraine and legislation in force. So the solutions to the problem are long known and have the power of the law. While it may be possible and necessary to sign such documents to achieve political stability, we suggest that the authorities go one step further and sign another memorandum to guarantee the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, political, labour and, as a result, social and social freedoms, to renounce political persecution, harassment and discredit. Moreover, the relevance of a similar political arrangement in which recent events have to take place. What are new officials worth saying about, for example, the desire to clean up personnel garbage from Kiev? Of course it is. Those words will certainly begin with specific issues of mass liberation. Perhaps the previous achievements of the authorities regarding the release of 18,000 people seemed insignificant to some. The faction of the SDPU (o) refers directly to the President of Ukraine, become, at last, the guarantor of the Constitution, protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of your citizens, take real steps to meet people. After all, it is your immediate responsibility to carry out it, and you have vowed to do so in the Bible.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u162	Igor Shurma, faction of Social Democrats, prepare the Tooth.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u163	Igor Šurma. A faction of the social-democratic party of Ukraine. [[united]] If, by June 22, this three could be referred to as political repression in essence, but not in uniform. From this Wednesday on, such reprisals have appeared unobtrusively. It is about bringing charges in the so - called Separatism case of the Head of the Luhansk Archduke - Tikhov and former Governor Kharkiv Kushnarov. By the way. Far from being members of the SDPU. The orderly nature of the matter is evident. The President has just said that he is dissatisfied with the progress of the separatism investigation, as the investigator changes in this case, and the witnesses become accused. Let us remind ourselves of the circumstances in which the convention took place in North London. It was November 28th. And before that, on November 23, Yushchenko illegally declared himself President and appealed to the parliaments and peoples of the world to support him as President. On November 24, Lviv and November 26, Volinska and Ternopil district councils removed state administrations and took over executive authority in the regions. The signs of the anticonstitutionality of these acts are obvious, but the law enforcement authorities have not given a legal assessment. Because it turned out to be acts of support for future winners. And the Severodonetsk convention is just the answer, and it's an attempt to catch up with those who were already in the Galician Assembly back then, in the '90s. But for some reason no one raised the question of criminal responsibility. Let's look at it from the other side. I personally am not a supporter of the federal system of Ukraine, and I understand people's concerns about the unity and territorial integrity of the state. But you can't speculate on this. Ukraine’s unity does not necessarily mean, once and for all, the same form of administration and consideration of appropriate changes in this system cannot be a crime. Therefore, from the accusations of separatism, it "thins" the spirit of Stalinism, not the practice of a democratic Europe that is so popular with today's authorities. Yes, the Constitutions of European countries certainly lay down the territorial integrity of nations. But this is not an obstacle to the legal existence of political parties demanding the autonomy of individual regions, the creation of independent states. As an example of these, frankly separatist parties, I can call the Scottish and Welsh National Party in Britain, the Northern League in Italy, the Party of the Bake Nationalists of Spain. In no way does the European democratic authorities oppose them until they pursue their goals peacefully. Nor should it be considered that outright political repression in Ukraine remains out of Europe’s sight. Because not all are so enchanted by the carrot path. There was already a call from Strasbourg on charges. Therefore, the Social Democrats are calling for power: Smack and do not disgrace Ukraine before the world!
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u164	Valentin Zubov, Mikhailo Ratushny.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u165	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios. I do not regard myself as Ukrainian nationalists, but, nevertheless, by working in the Hall, watching the bills that we are discussing and observing the nature of the draft legislation, I am surprised that we are being careless about the present and future of our country. I have had to say on many occasions that we all live in a wonderfully beautiful country whose climate conditions do not have parallels in the world. And it would seem that if we were to think of the future of our country, of our children's future, we needed to rethink the strategy for the development of Ukraine's economy. And that, using our national characteristics, beautiful nature, wonderful climate conditions, we need to bet on the development of national and international tourism, a type of economic activity that takes second place worldwide in business efficiency. Instead, this afternoon we discussed the problems of the metallurgical complex, and no one said that the nine largest metalworking combinations in Ukraine were long overdue. And we're feeding them. The owners of these combinations receive over-consumptions, leaving our people poisoned water, poisoned air, and so on. A particular example is Mariupol, and today it has been discussed. A beautiful city, located on a unique coast of the unique Azov Sea, where hundreds of thousands of adults and children could be cured annually, developed tourism infrastructure and received 10 times the amount of taxes that the two largest metalworks combined provide. And we put in the metal combination. The second example is Chercassa. Just a unique Chewchenkov landscape under natural and climatic conditions. Someone must have thought of planting the largest chemical combination on the shore of Dniepra. This means that tourism is not fully developed. And so many examples can be cited about Western Ukraine and so on. Therefore, today, I reiterate, there is a real need to rethink at the qualitatively new level the development strategy of our economy. And tourism, especially international tourism, is something that can allow Ukraine not only to expand tourism services tomorrow, but also to raise agriculture, which is also a reprocessing industry, and thus to solve very serious problems, including the development of science-intensive technologies. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u166	Mikhailo Ratushny, after him, instead of Novak, Puzakov. Manchulenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u167	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Statement by the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party on the non-admission of the deterioration of living standards and social guarantees of Ukrainian citizens. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party draws the attention of the government and local authorities to the inadmissibility of lowering living standards and social guarantees of Ukrainian citizens. Without diminishing the positive steps taken by the authorities to implement the Ukrainian President's programme, namely, to raise pensions, pay, help to socially vulnerable groups, we draw attention to the threatening trends in the deterioration of the standard of living of our fellow countrymen, who can reverse all positive distortions. We are responsibly saying that the actions of some leaders, whose consequences are the deterioration and so low standard of living of the people, undermine citizens' confidence in the President, destabilize the socio-political situation in the country. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party strongly protested the sharp rise in public transport prices in Kiev, which could cause price increases in other regions of Ukraine. We consider such actions not only to be reasonable but also to be unwarranted. All the arguments that the old officials of the new government are trying to explain their actions do not stand up to any criticism. Understanding the problems of motorists and supporting their fair demands on the need to compensate for rising operating costs, the faction of the Ukrainian People's Party had to remind them that the problems had taken place and needed to be resolved long before the presidential elections were completed. However, some leaders, who had suddenly become orange after the election, had artificially held back the price increase in order to ensure the candidate’s victory from the then authorities, now seeking to shift the burden of their questionable activities to the shoulders of ordinary citizens. We believe that a one-time increase in prices of goods or services for the population cannot exceed 10 percent of the existing price, no argument can justify the actions that lead to a deterioration in the standard of living of most citizens. The faction of the Ukrainian People's Party believes that any increase in prices for goods and services for the population can only be achieved after a prior proper provision of compensation and loss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u168	Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u169	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The system of power has not changed, nor has the regime changed, but the socialists, all of them in particular, have subdued the epidemic of perversion. How low they were to climb to the court and stand on the court! Not long ago, Mr. Bocchi collapsed, exposing the bush rule, demonstrating opposition -- and suddenly anti-communism is demonstrating obediently. Is it so uncomfortable to be with the people that you can also forget the history of your people, the beautiful one you lived in, have obtained a free higher education by getting a trip to life?Oh, my God! And it was you, Mr. Boki, who was a Communist and a party ticket from a member of the CPRS that still kept it just in case. Were you part of the steel gulag party you speak of so often? I say from this rostrum that today's communists have no bearing on the Stalin gulags and bear any responsibility for those years. And your power, the socialist capitalists, forgot about its people, about the oath they made on the ground. Or was it a phonograph? That's probably because the letters coming to my address are talking about it. I received a letter from workers at the Malovsky Spirit Plant, where people showed anger and resentment at the hands of the Neboda-Yarid socialist, who not only allowed service negligence but also gave good money to the factory’s management, resulting in 500 factory workers working all month without pay, without work. The plant is sprayed and placed on scrap metal. There's a mass sale going on. And what, the administration doesn't see it? He sees it, but he's quiet, because it's probably a benefit. The labor force has repeatedly addressed the district prosecutor and the head of the administration, but there are no reactions, although they know well that the liquor plant was giving 70 percent to the district budget. Would not even this figure force them to take immediate action? This is the new, transparent power that God's socialist is leading and that humans do nothing about it. In general, one of the most economically strong areas of the area has been destroyed, stolen, to the ground, and the Nebogah as Shulga's successor would have to be held accountable for criminals who destroyed the region's agriculture and together with the people to rebuild the economy and improve the lives of their neighbours, not to be an observer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2005-06-24-m0.u170	Thank you. The speeches are over. I ask the Secretariat to prepare where there have been appeals, parliamentary appeals. As a matter of fact, we will refer the matter to the appropriate authorities. Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kamenyash Alexander Mihajlovich into the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. On June 25 and 29 and July 1, national deputies work in committees, factions, and groups. On June 29, at 3 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings of Freedom of Conscience and Identity. The plenary session of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on July 5. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
